DRN-3340188
The complaint
Miss R complains about the customer service Barclays Bank UK PLC provided after she fell 
victim to a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I will only summarise 
events here. But, based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the background to 
this complaint to be as follows. 
In July 2020 Miss R made a payment for £1493 for a holiday, to who she thought was a 
legitimate travel agent. But, unknown to her at the time, it was a scam and she didnt get the 
holiday she had paid for. 
On realising this was a scam Miss R has told us that she raised the matter with Barclays on 
13 September 2020, following which shes told us she received a response from Barclays 
saying it hoped to be in contact with her within 15 days, but it may take up to 35 days. 
Miss R bought her complaint to this service on 18 October 2020, when she hadnt heard 
from Barclays, within the timescales it had indicated. She was unhappy that the money she 
had lost had not been refunded and, alongside this, was also unhappy that Barclays had not 
adhered to its timescales with regards to looking into her claim.
Barclays then wrote to Miss R on 28 October 2020, it confirmed that Miss Rs complaint 
about the money she lost was still being investigated. But it confirmed that the beneficiary 
bank (the bank where the money was sent to) had confirmed that no funds remained. 
Barclays did apologise to Miss R for the length of time it was taking for her claim to be 
resolved and for the lack of communication on her case. In recognition of the poor customer 
service, it confirmed it would be crediting Miss Rs account with £150 by way of an apology.
Barclays completed its investigation and on 2 November 2020 wrote to Miss R confirming 
that it would be refunding her the money she had lost in full. Miss R didnt think the 
compensation Barclays offered went far enough in putting things right.
One of our investigators looked into things. In summary, our investigator did think the service 
Barclays provided could have been better, regarding the lack of communication and 
timescales in which Barclays said it would communicate. She added that she appreciated 
that the scam situation and the lack of communication would have been frustrating and 
stressful for Miss R, and that at the time she would have been unaware if her claim would be 
upheld.
But she could see that Barclays had accepted the service it provided could have been better 
and that it had offered £150 compensation. Our investigator considered this was a fair 
resolution and said that she wasnt going to ask Barclays to increase this amount any 
further. 
Miss R didnt agree with our investigators opinion. In summary she didnt think the 
compensation of £150 was adequate for the amount of time and stress caused by Barclays 
breach of its timescales.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
In this case Barclays has already refunded Miss Rs account with the money that she lost, so 
the only issue I have to decide is whether the level of compensation its offered Miss R is fair 
and reasonable, when considering the circumstances of this complaint. There isnt a set 
formula to decide the level of compensation which would be appropriate. And we cant 
punish banks as were not the regulator. When deciding whether or not to award 
compensation, and if so, how much, I think about the impact a business actions or 
omissions have had on the individual(s) involved.
In reaching my decision Ive considered what Miss R has told us about how the fraud has 
impacted her and I dont underestimate this. I have to balance this, with the understanding 
that the primary reason, for Miss Rs loss was the cruel scam that was carried out by the 
fraudsters. I do appreciate that its difficult to put a price on the emotional and well-being 
impact a scam can have, as it is subjective and there is no exact science.
 
Ive considered the actions Barclays took when it was made aware of the scam. And I can 
see that it did attempt to recover the money from the beneficiary bank as soon as Miss R 
reported the matter to it, but unfortunately no funds remained  so I dont consider Barclays 
has caused any delay in trying to recover the money Miss R sadly lost.
Ive also considered whether I think Barclays missed any opportunities to prevent the scam,  
and having done so I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say it could have. I say that, as 
having looked at the payment Miss R made, while I appreciate the amount Miss R had sent, 
no doubt represented a significant amount for her, the payment wasnt so large or unusual 
that I think it ought to have raised concerns for the bank, to the point where I could 
reasonably have expected it to have intervened before allowing the payment to progress.
Miss R logged her claim with Barclays on 13 September 2020 and I can see that Barclays 
wasnt able to resolve Miss Rs claim within the timeframes it suggested it would. Barclays  
acknowledged and apologised for this in its letter dated 28 October 2020 and paid £150 
compensation in recognition of the service failings. This letter also explained to Miss R that 
her claim was still being investigated. Barclays went on to refund the full amount of the 
money Miss R lost on 2 November 2020.
I dont underestimate Miss Rs strength of feeling, and I dont doubt this would have been a 
very difficult and worrying time for her. And I can understand how needing to chase Barclays 
and not knowing if she was going to get this money back, would have added to what was already a difficult time. But Im mindful that Barclays acknowledged it could have dealt with 
things in a timelier manner and gave Miss R £150 compensation in recognition of this. And 
within a few days of Barclays sending its letter, dated 28 October 2020, it went on to 
complete its investigation and refund Miss R in full. So, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably 
say there were any further delays from this point.
Overall, I think the actions Barclays has taken, in recognising it could have provided a 
timelier service and giving £150 compensation went far enough. Im persuaded the payment 
it has already offered, for £150, is a fair amount thats proportionate to the circumstances in 
this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman