DRN-3333134
The complaint
Mrs L complains that she was unsuitably advised to transfer the benefits in an occupational 
pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension causing a loss in the value of her pension 
benefits. 
What happened
Mrs L had deferred benefits in an OPS that shed been a member of from February 1981 to 
March 1990.
Mrs L was advised to transfer her OPS benefits to a personal pension. That pension is now 
administered by ReAssure who are responsible for responding to Mrs Ls complaint about 
the advice she received to transfer.
Mrs L complained to ReAssure via a personal representative that the advice to transfer had 
been unsuitable. ReAssure responded to say that it upheld Mrs Ls complaint. It didnt think 
that the advice shed received to transfer had been suitable for her. So ReAssure offered to 
perform a loss calculation in line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Pension 
Review guidelines.
ReAssure contracted out the redress calculation to actuaries and on 6 February 2020, 
ReAssure made Mrs L an offer to increase her pension by £25,797.
The offer of compensation wasnt accepted. ReAssures contractor conducted a further loss 
calculation based on the issues that had been raised. On 22 April 2020 ReAssure made a 
further offer to increase the redress to £28,479, as at 1 April 2020.
Mrs L didnt accept that offer and brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into things and explained that our service isnt able to check that the loss calculations 
are correct. She checked the data that the calculation was based on and considered that the 
calculation had been done in line with the pension review methodology, as amended by the 
FCA in 2017.
Mrs L didn't agree with our investigators view. So this case was passed to an ombudsman 
for a final decision. I issued a provisional decision explaining my views on this case and 
allowing both parties the opportunity to comment. 
What I said in my first provisional decision:
I explained that, because ReAssure had accepted that Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld, 
both parties in this complaint agree that Mrs L was given unsuitable advice to transfer her 
OPS. So I also thought that the complaint should be upheld.
The issues of dispute in the complaint had evolved over the time that the complaint had 
been with our service. In my provisional decision I identified what I considered to be the 
remaining areas of disagreement in ReAssures approach to calculating the loss. I explained 
what I thought of those issues as follows: 
Calculation of deferred pension at Normal Retirement Date (NRD)
The deferred benefits in Mrs Ls OPS were revalued in order to protect their value in real 
terms. And ReAssures actuaries performed a calculation revaluing the benefits. They have 
explained the way they conducted this calculation. They counted the full years from leaving 
the scheme in March 1990 to Mrs Ls normal retirement age. And applied an aggregate 
inflationary increase between the start and finish dates.
I dont think that what ReAssure have done in this regard is unfair. And I cannot see that it 
departs from the guidance it should have been following. Mrs Ls representative has said 
that the revaluation should include the part years. Whilst that would be counted for the 
purposes of indexed increases for a pension in payment, the revaluation of a deferred 
pension to the NRD isnt calculated in the same way as a pension in payment. Revaluation 
of a deferred pension is done on the basis of full financial years. I dont think that I can say 
that the way that the actuaries have done this is wrong.
Assumption that Mrs L would take the benefits in their standard form
When it comes to making a calculation for future loss an assumption needs to be made 
about the benefits that would be taken. And neither ReAssure or Mrs L can know how Mrs L 
would have taken her benefits had she remained in the scheme. The standard benefits 
offered an annual income and a lump sum of three times that annual income figure. 
I understand that the OPS allowed for the option of commuting salary to a lump sum and 
vice versa. So its fair to say that Mrs L had a large range of choices. I wouldnt expect 
ReAssures actuaries to calculate every possible choice Mrs L might make. Although I agree 
that they may all provide slightly different loss figures. It was reasonable to assume that the 
benefits would be taken in their standard format, in the absence of any contemporary 
evidence to say otherwise.
Assumption that there would be no increase applied to the pre-88 GMP
The benefits in Mrs Ls OPS were made up of different elements based on the HMRC rules 
in place when those benefits were accrued. With the parts of her benefits accrued by opting 
out of State Earnings Related Pension (SERPS) being treated differently. 
The OPS booklet provides a summary of the way the scheme works. It explains that, for 
those reaching state retirement age after December 2018, any increase in the GMP part of a 
pension will be dependent on the application of the scheme rules and the relevant legislation 
at the time.
Under the government rules that were in place when ReAssure performed the loss 
calculation, schemes were not required to provide increases to GMP rights accrued between 
1978 and 1988 (pre-88 GMP). But were required to increase GMP rights accrued between 
1988 and 1997 (post-88 GMP) in line with prices subject to a 3% cap. Which ReAssures 
actuaries took into account.
Ive considered Mrs Ls representatives arguments that her OPS will have to increase the 
pre-88 GMP because of legislative changes. But those things are, as yet, still undecided. 
FG17/9 allows for actuaries performing the calculation to make assumptions. And I think the 
assumption that the pre-88 GMP wouldnt be increased was consistent with the legislation at 
the time.
I didnt think that the way that ReAssure had tried to put things right for Mrs L was unfair.Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs L didnt agree with the outcome Id reached. There was agreement that Id identified the 
correct issues still in dispute. But for the same reasons that Id previously been asked to 
consider, Mrs L disagreed with the outcome that Id reached. No new evidence was 
presented for me to consider. Although Mrs L continued to argue regarding the way that the 
pre-88 GMP would now be treated by her OPS.
ReAssure had no further comment to make following my provisional decision.
Change to my first provisional decision
In response to the issues that Mrs L raised regarding the pre-88 GMP, I looked again at the 
changes being made to Civil Service pension schemes. 
The Treasury conducted a consultation into the way that Principle Civil Service Pension 
Schemes (PCSPS) are indexed. And whilst there was previously no requirement of pension 
schemes to increase the pre-88 GMP element of pension benefits, the consultation was 
considering the issue for PCSPSs. In March 2021 The Treasury published the result of its 
consultation, and the decision had been made that PCSPSs would need to provide 
indexation for pre-88 GMP.
This was significant for the OPS benefits Mrs L had given up. The OPS she transferred from 
was set up in such a way that its benefits mirrored those of PCSPSs. So changes made to 
PCSPSs would more likely than not impact members of Mrs Ls OPS too. In December 2021 
Mrs Ls OPS issued a newsletter for members, which recognised the government 
recommendation and the impact it will have on its members.
I contacted ReAssure and Mrs L to explain that I was considering a different outcome based 
on these changed circumstances. I explained that Mrs Ls complaint was not yet resolved. 
The developments in the scheme benefits were clearly not known at the time that ReAssure 
did its loss calculation. So ReAssure couldnt have been expected to allow for it then. But 
because I need to decide a fair and reasonable outcome now, I thought it was fair to take 
these changes into account.
I set out my proposal for an up to date loss calculation to be carried out accounting for this 
new assumption regarding the pre-88 GMP. ReAssure responded to confirm that it would be 
prepared to recalculate the loss in line with the guidance Id suggested. 
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the same reason that I explained in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Ls complaint. 
The merits of this matter have never been in dispute. What has been disputed is whether or 
not ReAssures offer of redress was fair.
ReAssure offered to follow the FCAs Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9. This was issued in 
October 2017 and updated the redress methodology that had been put in place for the 
Pension Review. I think it was a fair way for ReAssure to have looked to put things right. And 
I disagree with Mrs Ls view that ReAssure had been inherently unfair in the way the 
calculation was made.As I explained in my provisional decision, FG17/9 provided guidance on the assumptions 
that need to be made in each case. It was understood that the calculations are complex and 
were expected to be carried out by actuaries. I think it was reasonable for ReAssure to 
contract the loss calculation out to a specialist firm, and to then rely on the calculations that it 
provided.
I cant overlook the fact that this case currently remains unresolved as no compensation has 
yet been paid. So what is decided now has to determine a fair way to put things right for 
Mrs L currently. And I now think that the circumstances have changed sufficiently with 
regards to Mrs Ls former pension scheme, that it isnt enough for me to direct ReAssure to 
pay the compensation it proposed in 2020.
Mrs Ls representative has referred to a Court of Appeal ruling in January 2020 that he 
believes meant ReAssure should have assumed that pre-88 GMP would be increased by the 
scheme in payment. But I dont agree that was the case. That ruling related to a request by 
the ceding OPS to bring a judicial review about The Treasurys proposed consultation 
regarding public sector pensions. The ceding scheme lost the appeal and were denied that 
right. I still dont think it was something that ReAssures actuaries ought to have considered 
in making assumptions for its loss calculations.
But in March 2021 The Treasury announced the conclusion of its consultation into public 
sector scheme GMP increases. And agreed that public sector pensions will in future pay full 
indexing for the GMP. And in December 2021, Mrs Ls ceding scheme recognised the impact 
this would have on the members of that scheme, in a newsletter.
I appreciate that this information post-dates ReAssures attempts to resolve Mrs Ls 
complaint. And the case being referred to our service. But it does mean that it is currently 
more likely than not, that Mrs Ls scheme will now provide indexed increases to the pre-88 
GMP element of her pension. So any calculation of Mrs Ls loss now has to account for that 
change.
Ive also considered the two other areas on which Mrs L disputes the approach ReAssure 
had taken in calculating redress (calculation of deferred pension at NRD and that Mrs L 
would take benefits in their standard form). I set out above what Id provisionally decided on 
those matters. Ive seen no evidence to change my opinion on those points, so my final 
decision remains the same as the above explanation in that regard. I dont agree that 
ReAssures approach was unreasonable. So I wont specifically direct them to amend the 
way it approached the loss calculation for those areas that Mrs L disputed. 
The complaint that Im being asked to consider is whether Mrs Ls pension transfer was 
suitable or not. ReAssure has upheld Mrs Ls complaint from the outset. And as explained in 
my provisional decision, like ReAssure, Im also upholding the complaint. So I need to 
consider how to put things right now. The fairest way to resolve this is for ReAssure to 
perform an up to date loss calculation, based on current assumptions (including the change 
to the pre-88 indexation). This method may produce a loss figure that is higher or lower than 
the existing loss calculation, or Mrs Ls estimated loss calculation. But this will replace 
existing offers made.Putting Things Right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs L, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider she would 
have remained in the occupational scheme. ReAssure must therefore undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate 
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. Including the current assumption 
regarding pre-88 GMP Ive addressed above. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Ls acceptance of the decision.
ReAssure may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs 
Ls contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Ls SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Ls pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs L as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs L within 90 days of the date 
ReAssure receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must 
be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
ReAssure to pay Mrs L.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mrs Ls complaint and direct ReAssure to compensate Mrs L 
in the manner set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman