DRN-2353818
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has declined a claim under 
her home insurance policy for storm damage.
What happened
Mrs R made a claim to Lloyds after a tree from her property fell into her neighbours garden. 
She said the damage had been caused by high winds during a named storm.
Lloyds declined the claim. It said the wind speeds at the relevant time werent strong enough 
to count as a storm under the terms of the policy. 
Mrs R said shed paid £1,080 to have the tree cut up and removed. She thinks Lloyds should 
reimburse her.
Lloyds didnt change its decision on the claim. Mrs R brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold it. She thought Lloyds had acted fairly in line with the terms of 
the policy.
As Mrs R didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at whether there was a storm in Mrs Rs local area on or around the date that the 
damage happened. Mrs Rs policy contains the following definition of Storm:
strong winds with gusts of at least 55mph and/or hail or snow of such intensity or weight 
that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass. 
The weather records show on the day the damage took place the maximum wind speed was 
35mph with peak gusts of up to 42mph in the days beforehand. It appears to be accepted 
that there wasnt any hail or snow in the area at the relevant time.
Im satisfied that under the terms of the policy there was no storm. I know Mrs R is unhappy 
with this and has said that high winds definitely caused the damage. But I can only rely on 
official records and theres no evidence to suggest the weather in the area around her house 
was likely to have been different from that recorded by the local weather station. Given the 
available evidence, I cant reasonably conclude that there was likely a storm (as defined in 
Mrs Rs policy) in the area of Mrs Rs property on the day in question.
So Im not persuaded that Lloyds treated Mrs R unfairly or unreasonably in declining her 
claim for storm damage.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman