DRN-3120262
The complaint
Mr E and Mrs S have complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS), mis-sold 
them fee-paying Royalties Gold and Select Platinum packaged bank accounts. 
The Royalties Gold account was sold in November 2002. Due to the withdrawal of the 
Royalties Gold account, RBS changed the account to a Select Platinum account in July 
2015. 
Mr E and Mrs S have complained that the Royalties Gold account was mis-sold because 
they were unable to use the benefits. Mr E and Mrs S are unhappy about the Select 
Platinum account because they were unaware that their account had been changed in 2015.
What happened
RBS said that our service is unable to consider the complaint about the sale of the fee-
paying Royalties Gold account. A decision has been issued on this in which we concluded 
that we are unable to consider whether the Royalties Gold account was mis-sold. This was 
because the complaint had been raised outside of the time limits that apply to complaints 
referred to our service.
One of our adjudicators considered whether RBS did anything wrong when it transferred    
Mr E and Mrs Ss Royalties Gold account to a Select Platinum account. The adjudicator 
concluded that RBS had not acted unfairly or incorrectly in changing Mr E and Mrs Ss 
account.
Mr E and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators findings and so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision. As it has already decided that our service cannot look at 
the complaint about the sale of the Royalties Gold account, this decision will only address 
whether RBS did anything wrong in relation to the migration of the account in 2015.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help decide what to do about Mr E and Mrs Ss complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything provided, I am unable to uphold the complaint 
about their account being changed to a Select Platinum account. Id like to explain the 
reasons for my decision. 
I should start by saying that RBS didnt sell Mr E and Mrs S a further packaged account in 
July 2015. It chose to withdraw the Royalties Gold account at this stage. And it was entitled 
to do this. So I cant say that RBS did anything wrong because it decided to withdraw the 
Royalties Gold account. 
When RBS withdrew the Royalties Gold account, to ensure account holders still had access 
to the insurance benefits, it moved all its customers that had this account on to the Select 
Platinum account. This was because the benefits on the Select Platinum account most 
closely matched the ones that were on the Royalties Gold account. As this wasnt a further 
sale of a packaged account, RBS didnt need to get Mr E and Mrs Ss agreement before 
making this change. What RBS needed to do was notify Mr E and Mrs S about the upcoming 
change to the account. 
RBS says that in June 2015, it wrote to all Royalties Gold account holders to say that the 
Royalties Gold account was being removed from its range of packaged accounts and that 
customers would be moved to the Select Platinum account, because it included similar 
benefits. The letter explained that the cost of the account would initially remain the same (at 
£15 per month) before increasing to £16 a month in 2016, to match the existing cost of the 
Select Platinum account.
RBS has provided a sample of what it says it sent to Mr E and Mrs S, and RBSs records 
show that it held the correct address for them on its records around the time the letter was 
sent. Given this, I think it was likely to have been sent to the and I think it wouldve been 
received. RBS hasnt been able to provide evidence that the letter was sent. So, while I do 
think its most likely RBS did send a letter, RBS cant evidence that it did. 
Nevertheless, even if I think that RBS mayve done something wrong  by not sending the 
letter - (which I am not persuaded is the case), I would still need to consider what Mr E and 
Mrs S would most likely have done, had they been told about the account changes.
In this case, I dont think I can say its more likely than not that the Mr E and Mrs S wouldve 
done something different if theyd received a letter saying the account was changing. In 
other words, I dont think its likely Mr E and Mrs S wouldve chosen to remove the Select 
Platinum from the account, had they received the migration letter. 
To explain RBS has also provided evidence to show that it sent annual statements of 
eligibility in January 2014 and 2015 (as well as in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019). These 
reminded Mr E and Mrs S of the eligibility requirements of each benefit and invited Mr E and 
Mrs S to check that they still met the qualifying criteria.
Despite being sent all of these letters over a number of years, Mr E and Mrs S kept their 
Royalties Gold account. As such, I cant reasonably conclude that Mr E and Mrs S were 
likely to have downgraded the account had they received the migration letter  a letter that 
essentially explained the name of the account was being changed and would eventually cost 
£1 more per month than they were already paying.
For me to find in favour of Mr E and Mrs S, I need to find  in relation to the migration of the 
account - that RBS did something wrong and that had things gone as they shouldve, Mr E 
and Mrs S wouldve taken a different course of action. But, for the reasons given above even 
if I were persuaded that the migration letter was not sent, I cant say that Mr E and Mrs S 
would necessarily have taken a different course of action had it been received. As such, I am 
unable to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr E and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 Charlie Newton
Ombudsman