DRN-1894202
 
The complaint
Miss C says Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Alliance and Leicester) mis-sold her a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Background
The PPI policy was taken out alongside a further advance on Miss Cs mortgage in late 
2004/early 2005. She paid a monthly amount for the policy. 
Our adjudicator thought we should uphold the complaint. Santander disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me. I issued my provisional findings in 
April 2020. Heres what I said:
Im thinking of not upholding Miss Cs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Miss C says the borrowing was taken out by completing an online application. Santander 
says the policy was arranged during a meeting and it has provided a copy of Miss Cs 
application form for the further advance. This has been completed by hand  most likely by a 
member of Santander staff. So, I think the policy was taken out during a face to face meeting 
rather than one completed online. 
However, the policy was taken out, Santander should have taken reasonable steps to 
ensure Miss C was made aware she had a choice about buying the PPI. Although Santander 
hasnt been able to give us a lot information from the time of sale, such as an application 
form for the PPI, as mentioned above, it has provided a copy of Miss Cs mortgage 
application form. 
On the form it has a section headed For Office Use Only and the option for PPI has been 
selected and the monthly cost written in. The form also has a section headed Insurance. 
Under the part about PPI it has yes and no sections to tick to indicate whether PPI is 
wanted or not. Neither of these boxes have been selected. Our adjudicator thought the 
complaint should be upheld based on the fact that by this section being left blank, Santander 
couldnt demonstrate that Miss C had been given a choice as to whether to take out the 
policy or not. 
But I disagree. From what we know, it looks like Miss C would have completed a separate 
application form for the PPI policy  and Santander has provided us a sample copy of this 
form. And I can see that it asks for various details about the applicant and asks for details on 
how the policy should be split and what costs will be covered under the policy. It also asks 
for a separate Direct Debit mandate form to be completed. So, I consider it likely that some 
form of discussion would have taken place about the PPI. 
We also know Santander normally made it clear to customers they had a choice about PPI 
and got their agreement to it. I think the fact the boxes to say yes or no to the insurance on 
the form are both blank more likely indicates an oversight when the form was being completed by the member of staff rather than Miss C not agreeing to take out the policy. And 
given the fact Miss C had the opportunity to select no to taking the policy shows that the 
PPI wasnt compulsory to obtaining the further borrowing. 
So overall, I think its more likely Santander made it clear to Miss C that she had a choice 
about the PPI and she  at the time - agreed to it.
Miss C says the policy wasnt advised. Santander says it recommended the policy to her. 
From what we know about sales during this time, they were usually done so on an advised 
basis and as part of the sales process, Santander should have taken reasonable steps to 
make sure the policy was right for Miss Cs circumstances at the time. I think that it was, and 
I say this because:
Miss C was eligible for the policy.
She wouldnt have been caught by any of the other things the policy didnt cover  
like unusual employment arrangements. So, there was nothing to stop her claiming 
the full benefit of the policy if she needed to. 
Miss C says she would have got some sick pay benefits from her employer. She also 
says she had savings she could have relied upon. But the policy would have covered 
 Miss Cs mortgage repayments for up to 12 months if she was too unwell to work or 
if she became unemployed. So, the policy could have still been of use to her. And it 
would have paid in addition to these benefits meaning she could have used her sick 
pay and any savings she had to pay for other essential costs. 
As we dont have many documents from the time of the sale, I dont know if 
Santander made the cost of the policy clear to Miss C. But looking at the information I 
have about her circumstances, I havent seen anything substantial to suggest the 
policy was unaffordable to Miss C. Additionally she could have cancelled it at any 
time, without further cost, if her situation changed or she no longer wanted to pay for 
it. I note Miss C cancelled the policy in 2006. 
Miss C was increasing the amount she was borrowing against a significant and long-
term commitment, secured against her home, on her own. Given the consequences 
of not keeping up her mortgage repayments, I think having the security that her 
mortgage repayments could have been made if she was unable to work would have 
been important to her. 
 
As well as making sure the PPI was right for Miss C, Santander should have also taken 
steps to give her clear information about the policy, so she could decide if she wanted it. I 
dont know what steps Santander took to do this. And its possible some things werent 
explained as clearly as they should have been. But I dont think clearer information would 
have changed Miss Cs decision. I think she would have still bought it for the same reasons I 
think the policy was suitable for her.
Overall, I dont think Miss C has lost out from anything Santander might have done wrong. 
I asked both parties to send me anything further before I issued my final decision. Both 
parties acknowledge receipt of the findings, but no one had anything further to add. 
 
 
My findingsIve now reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Cs complaint. 
Having done this, as no one had anything further for me to consider, my decision remains 
the same. I dont uphold this complaint. 
My decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman