DRN-2145395
The complaint
Mr M says Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr M took out one £200 loan with MoneyBoat in October 2018. The loan was repayable in 
four monthly instalments of around £75. An adjudicator considered Mr Ms complaint but 
didnt think it should be upheld. Mr M didnt agree, so his complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay his loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Before it lent to Mr M, MoneyBoat asked him to provide some information about his income 
and expenditure. Mr M said his net monthly income was £1,760 and that he spent £550 on 
mortgage/rent, £500 on credit repayments, £40 on food and £20 on transport  a total of 
£1,110. This expenditure, although not a comprehensive assessment of Mr Ms outgoings, 
left a disposable income of £650 a month. Given that the expenditure captured wasnt 
comprehensive, it wouldnt be fair to base the loan repayments on a monthly disposable 
income of £650  but I dont think MoneyBoat did this and the loan repayments were in fact 
only a little over £75 per month. Even allowing for quite a lot of additional expenditure, that 
still seems an affordable amount, based on the information Mr M provided to MoneyBoat.
MoneyBoat also carried out a credit check and I think this suggested Mr Ms credit 
commitments probably exceeded £500 per month. But I dont think that MoneyBoats credit 
check suggested Mr Ms credit repayments were so much more than £500 that the £75 
repayments for the MoneyBoat loan were not sustainably affordable. Mr M has now provided 
a new set of figures for his monthly credit commitments, but I dont think these figures were 
reflected in MoneyBoats credit check. And its not what Mr M told MoneyBoat when he took 
out this loan. So I dont think it would be fair for me to rely on these figures.
I have also noted that Mr M had defaulted on what appears to be a mail order account in 
June 2018, which isnt long before he took out this new loan. But bearing in mind the small 
size of the repayments for this £200 loan and that Mr Ms other accounts appear to have 
been in order, I think MoneyBoats affordability assessment was still proportionate and it was 
reasonable for it to think the loan was affordable for Mr M.
For these reasons, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman