DRN-4522397
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano), has rejected the claim she made under 
section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system 
she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Mrs K is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
Mrs K purchased a solar panel system (the system) for her home in 2015 and financed it 
through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano. The system was subsequently 
installed. Mrs K alleges that the installer misled her into believing that the panels would be 
self-funding, which they werent. She says this caused her relationship with Ikano to be 
unfair on her.
Ikano didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mrs K or that its relationship with 
her was unfair. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld and 
that the system was likely misrepresented to Mrs K, making its relationship with her unfair. 
He suggested Ikano put things right by ensuring Ikano charged Mrs K no more than the 
benefit she would likely receive over the term of the loan. 
Ikano didnt agree to our investigators view of the complaint for the following reasons: 
Ikano says the system was not sold as self-funding and the sales contract would 
have made that clear. While Ikano couldnt provide the sales contract related to 
Mrs K sale, neither could Mrs K. But it did however submit sample documents that it 
says were standard documents given to consumers by this supplier, and this shows it 
usually made the costs and benefit clear in the sales contract. 
Ikano pointed out that Mrs K didnt complain to the supplier directly at all and didnt 
complain to Ikano for 6 years, despite being in contact with it in 2017 to redeem the 
loan. 
Other than the consumers testimony, there was no evidence the system had been 
misrepresented. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded by Ikanos submissions explaining that Mrs K had been 
given one generation figure in her estimated returns document and another in her MCS 
certificate post installation. He felt the information given wasnt clear, and Mrs K would have 
been reliant on what she was told. Ikano still didnt agree. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me.
In my provisional decision of 1 December 2023, I set out why I was minded to upholding the 
complaint in part. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to 
make before I reached a final decision. Neither Ikano nor Mrs K made any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Our investigator has explained why we have jurisdiction to consider this complaint and as 
neither party has disputed this, I dont need to set this out again in this decision. 
Ikano is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I also dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Neither party has been able to provide all the documents related to the sale so if there is a 
dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - what I think 
most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Documents submitted 
Both parties have submitted a copy of the credit agreement Mrs K signed at the time of sale 
and this clearly set out the costs. This was signed by Mrs K on 13 April 2015. 
Mrs K also submitted a document headed MCS Standard Performance Calculation which 
sets out the estimated benefit Mrs K could expect to receive from the system. The date on 
the copy submitted appears to have been crossed out  but in Mrs Ks witness testimony she 
accepts she was given a document setting out the returns. 
Mrs K signed the credit agreement and maintained the loan payments for years before 
redeeming it early. While I cannot see the date or signature on the estimated returns 
document, Mrs K recalled it during her witness testimony some 6 years after the sale and 
submitted it as part of her submissions. So, Im satisfied that Mrs K was provided with the 
sales documents mentioned above, and she wouldve seen these at the time of sale.
Ikano has provided a sample sales contract which does appear to set out the estimated 
returns and the price of the system, and while this doesnt relate to this specific sale, it does 
give us an indication as to this suppliers sales practices. 
The cost of the system
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (£9,450), the interest to be 
charged (£5,280.96), total amount payable (£14,730.96), the term of the loan (120 months 
i.e. 10 years) and the contractual monthly repayments (£122.76).
Im satisfied the credit agreement made it clear that although the cost of the system was 
£9,450, it would cost Mrs K more than this as she had decided to pay for it with an interest-
bearing loan. I also think the term of the loan, monthly payments, and total amount 
repayable was clearly set out. 
Self-funding 
The estimated returns document sets out that Mrs Ks annual revenue would be £366.21.Bearing in mind Mrs Ks monhtly payment was around £122 a month, I think its apparent that 
12 payments of £122, is significantly more than £366. Additionally, I think its unlikely that 
Mrs K would agree to such a substantial purchase with finance without considering the most 
basic details of the loan, such as the term of the loan as well as the total amount repayable. 
And to repay £14,730.96 over 10 years, I think its clear Mrs K would need around £1,473 
annually to meet the repayments on the loan. And an annual revenue of £366 falls 
significantly short of that. 
So considering Im satisfied Mrs K was shown both the credit agreement and the estimated 
benefits during the sale, I think its clear the system wouldnt be self-funding in the way Mrs K 
says it would be, at least not without an explanation as to how such a considerable shortfall 
would be made up. Her testimony doesnt explain any further information about this being 
mentioned during the sale. 
If Mrs K had been told something different, on being given these documents, I would have 
expected her to have questioned what she had been told. Ive seen no evidence that she 
did, so I think that suggests that the documents most likely did not contradict Mrs Ks 
understanding at that time. 
Ive also gone on to consider the wider circumstances of this case. It seems the supplier was 
trading for many years post installation. Had Mrs K been disappointed with the benefits she 
was receiving because it wasnt covering the loan costs as she says she expected, I would 
have expected her to have raised that with the supplier while it was still trading, and Ive 
seen no evidence that she did. Additionally, Mrs K redeemed this loan in 2017, and didnt 
raise any concerns over the sale or benefit she was receiving at that time. Given the 
substantial amounts she paid, I would have again expected her to have mentioned these 
concerns to Ikano at the time. 
I also understand Mrs K responded to an advert seeking out the solar panel system  
indicating she was interested in installing the system to some degree rather than the supplier 
cold calling her or selling it to her during a door-to-door sales exercise. While Ive thought 
about the CMCs concerns about Mrs Ks age and the long-term nature of the system, 
people buy systems like these for an array of reasons (to produce green energy, to improve 
the energy efficiency of their homes, to increase the value of their homes, for their families to 
benefit). So, I dont think that the long-term nature of the product means that Mrs K wouldnt 
have bought the system. 
I do accept Mrs K does appear to have been given a different generation estimate in the 
estimated returns document than in the MCS certificate that was given to her after the 
installation. However, this doesnt change the fact that the sales documents overall do not 
suggest the system would produce enough benefit to make the system self-funding. Being 
given the MCS certificate post installation doesnt change that its unlikely that when she 
agreed to the purchase, the system was presented to her as being self-funding as she now 
claims. 
While Ive carefully considered Mrs Ks testimony, I find the documents from the time of sale 
to be more persuasive in terms of what information she was likely given at the time of sale. 
So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
Other issues 
Ive thought about the CMCs concerns about high pressure sales tactics being utilised and 
Mrs K being unaware of her cancellation rights. However, pressure can be subjective, and I 
havent heard enough detail to persuade me Mrs K was pressured into buying the system. 
And the cancellation rights are set out in her credit agreement. 
Mrs K has also claimed she was sold a voltage optimiser (VO) which was never given to her. 
As explained above, I do not have a full copy of the sales contract as neither party has been 
able to provide it. However, the credit agreement only refers to the solar panel system in the 
description of goods section. And the invoice given to Mrs K after installation, also doesnt 
mention the VO. So, it doesnt look like the finance agreement included any other product 
other than the solar panel system which was installed as agreed. Overall, I dont have 
sufficient evidence here to say that the provision of a VO was included within the costs, or 
that there has been a breach of contract in relation to the VO that Ikano should now be held 
responsible for. 
Underperformance 
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mrs K. The MCS certificate sets out that the system is expected to 
produce 2188 kWh a year. The estimated returns document shows the system was expected 
to produce 2735 kWh per year. And the benefits shown in the estimated returns document 
were calculated based on that level of generation.
I have looked at Mrs Ks meter reading, and can see that the system, on average, has 
generated 1649.88 kWh per year. This is significantly less than estimated by P at the point of 
sale, as well as the MCS certificate and well outside of the tolerance levels we normally 
agree is reasonable. So, Im satisfied that the system isnt performing as expected. 
It is unclear why the system has underperformed. The CMC raised this issue in its letter of 
claim and the loss assessment attachment sent to Ikano in 2021. It highlighted the system 
has generated significantly less than was estimated at the point of sale. So, I think Ikano has 
had enough time to look into this to see if the system is faulty or in need of repair  and Ive 
seen no evidence that it has done so. 
 
Based on the evidence available to me, I think that its more likely P misrepresented the 
systems ability to generate electricity, and as a result the benefits it would produce relative 
to the cost of the loan. I think this misrepresentation induced Mrs K into entering into the 
contract and its likely she bought the system based on the systems ability to generate 
energy in line with the contract. Because of this, I think that Ikano didnt treat Mrs K fairly and 
she has lost out because of this. And this means that Ikano should put things right.
As I think the systems ability to generate energy has been misrepresented to Mrs K, I think 
a court could likely conclude there existed an unfair relationship under section 140 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. As Mrs K has lost out because of what the supplier did wrong, I 
think Ikano should put things right. 
Summary 
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that the system wasnt mis-represented to Mrs K on the basis that it would be 
immediately self-funding.However, I think its more likely that the supplier did misrepresent the systems ability to 
generate energy, and the benefits were then estimated on that basis. I think its likely that 
Mrs K bought the system on the basis that the system would generate energy in line with the 
sales documents and was expecting benefits that correspond with that level of generation.  
The system has not performed in line with that. Im therefore satisfied that Mrs K has 
suffered a loss because of this and Ikano should therefore put this right. 
Putting things right
In this case, I think fair compensation is trying to make sure that Mrs K does not suffer a 
financial loss, which in my view would mean that the solar panel system should
generate roughly what was promised via the sales paperwork. The MCS certificate has a 
lower generation figure (2188 kWh) than the estimated returns (2735 kWh). But Mrs K would 
have bought the system based on the estimated returns document, which was given to her 
during the sales process, so I think its fair for redress to be worked out based on that 
generation figure which is 2735 kWh annually. 
So, I think to put things right Ikano should:
a) calculate the difference between what the panels have generated as income 
(through FIT and savings) for Mrs K and what the estimated returns set out as being 
the annual revenue.  
b) add 8% simple interest to that amount and pay the total to Mrs K
The finance agreement in question was due to end in 2025. To ensure that Mrs K doesnt 
lose out going forward, Ikano should then:
c) calculate the average annual underperformance percentage so far, and assume 
that the panels will continue to underperform at that rate through to the original 
conclusion date of the finance agreement
d) recalculate the annual revenue for each year going forward until the original 
conclusion date of the finance agreement, having applied the percentage reduction 
identified in c) above
e) pay Mrs K the difference between the revised amounts calculated in d) above and 
the annual revenue set out in the sales paperwork.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs K first 
contacted Ikano that means the claim should have been upheld. I intend to direct Ikano to 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
As explained above, neither Ikano nor Mrs K have made any additional comments in 
response to my provisional decision. So, in the absence of any new points for me to 
consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set out in my provisional 
decision. Overall, having again carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in 
this complaint, Im still satisfied that the system wasnt mis-represented to Mrs K on the basis 
that it would be immediately self-funding.
However, I do think its more likely that the supplier did misrepresent the systems ability to 
generate energy, and the benefits were then estimated on that basis. I think its likely that 
Mrs K bought the system on the basis that the system would generate energy in line with the 
sales documents and was expecting benefits that correspond with that level of generation.  The system has not performed in line with that. Im therefore satisfied that Mrs K has 
suffered a loss because of this and Ikano should therefore put this right. 
Putting things right
In this case, I think fair compensation is trying to make sure that Mrs K does not suffer a 
financial loss, which in my view would mean that the solar panel system should
generate roughly what was promised via the sales paperwork. The MCS certificate has a 
lower generation figure (2188 kWh) than the estimated returns (2735 kWh). But Mrs K would 
have bought the system based on the estimated returns document, which was given to her 
during the sales process, so I think its fair for redress to be worked out based on that 
generation figure which is 2735 kWh annually. 
So, I think to put things right Ikano should:
a) calculate the difference between what the panels have generated as income 
(through FIT and savings) for Mrs K and what the estimated returns set out as being 
the annual revenue.  
b) add 8% simple interest to that amount and pay the total to Mrs K
The finance agreement in question was due to end in 2025. To ensure that Mrs K doesnt 
lose out going forward, Ikano should then:
c) calculate the average annual underperformance percentage so far, and assume 
that the panels will continue to underperform at that rate through to the original 
conclusion date of the finance agreement
d) recalculate the annual revenue for each year going forward until the original 
conclusion date of the finance agreement, having applied the percentage reduction 
identified in c) above
e) pay Mrs K the difference between the revised amounts calculated in d) above and 
the annual revenue set out in the sales paperwork.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs K first 
contacted Ikano that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct Ikano pay £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint. Ikano Bank AB (publ) should put things 
right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024. 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman