DRN-1603001
The complaint
Ms G complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) unfairly declined a 
claim she made for an escape of water under her home insurance policy.  
What happened
In July 2019, Ms G contacted Lloyds to say she had found a leak behind the tiles in her 
bathroom. 
Lloyds sent an assessor to Ms Gs home a few days later to look at the damage. The 
assessor reported that the damage had been caused as a result of a long-term slow escape 
of water from the shower valve area. Ms G agreed the leak had been occurring over a long 
period of time based on the damage, but said she only became aware of the leak when she 
removed the tiles and noticed that some tiles were loose. 
Lloyds disputed this. It said the assessor reported that the landing wall adjacent to the 
shower, where the leak occurred, had been recently painted, implying Ms G painted over 
water stains. Lloyds also said the assessor reported that Ms G had found a water stain on 
her kitchen ceiling a long time ago prior to having it repainted. 
Ms G disputes this and said she often touches up the paint work in her home. She had also 
touched up the paint in the hallway - and not just the wall adjacent to the shower. Ms G also 
mentioned there was no evidence of water stains in her home.
The assessor reported a number of areas of damage and also said Ms G had already 
removed and disposed of the tiles before the visit. So the assessor couldnt determine if the 
grout or sealant had failed. Lloyds therefore declined the claim because the leak happened 
gradually over time and referred to a term in Ms Gs policy that excludes cover for a 
gradually operating cause. Lloyds also said Ms G breached the policy conditions by 
removing the tiles prior to the assessors visit. 
Ms G said she regretted disposing of the tiles but still had the plaster from behind the tiles 
which was dry and intact. Ms G raised a complaint with Lloyds. 
Lloyds didnt uphold Ms Gs complaint and maintained it declined the claim fairly based on 
the assessors report. Ms G remained unhappy with this, and so she brought a complaint to 
this service for investigation. 
Our investigator looked into everything but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She 
said Ms G breached the terms of the policy by removing the tiles prior to the assessor 
looking at the damage. The investigator also concluded Ms G wouldve been aware of 
underlying issues based on the assessors report. 
Lloyds agreed, but Ms G didnt. She maintained she wasnt aware of the leak prior to 
removing the loose tiles. And so, she thinks Lloyds should pay her claim, plus compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
As no resolution could be met, the case has been passed to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Ms G, and so I'll 
now explain why. 
Ms Gs policy does provide her with cover in the event an escape of water occurs at her 
home. However, there are also general exclusions that apply to all sections of the policy. 
On page 45 of the policy terms, one of those exclusions says that the policy doesnt cover a 
gradually operating cause. This is something that happens gradually over a period of time, 
for example corrosion, damp, condensation, decay or decomposition. This means that 
Lloyds can decline a claim if damage has been caused gradually over a period of time, but it 
needs to demonstrate that its applied the term fairly and reasonably. 
In this case, Ms G said she wasnt aware of the leak until she realised some tiles were loose. 
Whereas, Lloyds are of the opinion Ms G had some knowledge of an underlying issue that 
was occurring. Ms G has argued that Lloyds reasons to decline the claim are only based on 
an assumption from the assessor, rather than fact. 
I appreciate Ms Gs concern here. However, I also need to bear in mind the fact that Ms G 
disposed of evidence that wouldve been helpful in determining whether or not there was 
damage to the tiles or grout, and if this wouldve been visible to Ms G. 
There is a term in Ms Gs policy on page 43 that says, Do not throw away any damaged 
items before we have had a chance to see them, or carry out any non-emergency repairs 
before we have had a chance to inspect them. Ms G has breached this term by removing 
and disposing of the tiles prior to the assessment taking place. By doing this, Lloyds has 
been left with no choice but to refer to the evidence that was available to determine whether 
or not Ms G could have and should have known there was an issue present.  
Ive looked at everything Ms G has told us and Lloyds. Ms G told Lloyds that she was in the 
bathroom and noticed some tiles were loose. And so, she went to investigate further by 
removing the tiles and found that the wall behind the tiles was wet. But when Ms G spoke to 
our investigator, she said the tiles were 20 years old and she wanted to remove these to see 
what was going on. Ms G also said she intended to put the original tiles back onto the wall. 
The fact that Ms G wanted to investigate what was going on, suggests there was an 
indication of a wider issue. Ms G also said she took the tiles off as the grout was coming 
away  which isnt something that generally occurs suddenly and unexpectedly. And 
therefore, its not unreasonable for Lloyds to apply the above claim in this case. 
Once Ms G removed the tiles, she said the wall behind the tiles was wet. This is how Ms G 
said she first became aware that there was a leak. However, I can also see that Ms G had 
said that the plaster behind the tiles was in fact dry, which she said indicated that there 
wasnt evidence of an underlying issue present that required further investigation. 
Ive considered the amount of damage reported by the assessor, along with the photographs 
theyve provided. I have also carefully considered these with the photographs Ms G 
provided. 
To be specific, the assessors photographs show damage around the shower tray, and 
extensive wood rot where the valve had been leaking for a long period of time  which isnt 
disputed. I note Ms G also sent us photographs of the damage, and our investigator 
discussed these with her. Our investigator asked Ms G whether any editing had taken place as damage that appeared in the assessors photographs appeared differently in Ms Gs 
photographs.
In any event, and in my view, theres significant damage present in the original photographs 
taken by the assessor that indicates a wider issue, which on balance wouldve or shouldve 
been known to Ms G based on the evidence. 
I note the assessor said that the wall adjacent to where the source of the leak was located, 
had been painted. Ms G has said she periodically paints and touches up her home as the 
walls are white. I dont dispute this to be the case. I also understand the wrong coloured 
paint was used on this occasion, and the paint was used across a relatively large section of 
her hallway. But I note that the assessor found the walls to be damp when they attended to 
carry out their inspection. 
Given both Ms G and Lloyds dont dispute the leak had occurred over a period of time, the 
wall most likely would have been damp both prior to, and after Ms G painted it. Therefore, 
and in my view, this would have also given some indication that there was an underlying 
issue present that required attention. And Ms G reasonably ought to have been aware of it 
on balance. 
Therefore, on balance and to summarise, I dont think Lloyds has acted unfairly by applying 
the above policy exclusion on page 45 of the policy documents, based on all the information 
available to me. So, I wont be asking it to do anything else here. 
Ms G said she thinks Lloyds should pay her compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to her. Ive looked into the handling of the claim and I am not in 
agreement with Ms G that Lloyds has acted unreasonably by declining the claim or caused 
any unnecessary delays in assessing the damage and reaching a decision on the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2020.
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman