DRN-3697271
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Interactive Investor Services Limited (Interactive) restricted Mr 
Bs account access and prevented him from using part of his (Individual Savings Account) 
ISA allowance in the 2020/2021 tax year. They also complain that Interactive refused to 
honour the Joint Trading Account (JTA) price advertised on its website.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to assure Mr and Mrs B that Ive had sight of all communications in this 
complaint, including all post view communications with the Investigator. I may not comment 
on each point individually, as my decision will focus on the most pertinent points, but I have 
considered all the information.
Access issues
Its not disputed that Mr B was locked out of his account by Interactive. Mr B feels that this 
error falls under the description of a hacking of his account. Ive thought about this carefully, 
but none of the evidence provided suggests any hacking took place. Instead it all suggests 
what has already been established  Interactive accidentally changed Mr Bs log in 
credentials when transferring accounts. The evidence provided to date suggests the loss of 
access to his account was an administrative error and so Im satisfied this is the most likely 
explanation of what happened.
In any case, Im satisfied that the lack of access and subsequent delay in providing access 
did cause Mr B some inconvenience and concern about the safety of his account, and that 
the offer of £30 originally made by Interactive falls short of appropriately recognising this 
impact.
ISA allowance
Im also satisfied the error meant Mr B was denied the opportunity to deposit £10,000 into 
his ISA at the very end of the 2020/2021 tax year. So if Mr B was able to demonstrate that 
hed used all his ISA allowance in the 2021/2022 year Id be satisfied that there was enough 
evidence of financial loss in this aspect of his complaint.
But whilst Mr B has been asked several times if hed be willing to provide evidence that he 
deposited the full yearly allowance into an ISA during the 2021/2022 tax year I cant be 
satisfied from the submissions made that hes done so. Mr B has provided a large amount of 
additional material, however none of it demonstrates that he deposited a total of £20,000 into 
his ISA during the 2021/2022 tax year.
Mr B has provided evidence of some trades on another account that he made in April 2021  
however these only go so far as to demonstrate that some shares were purchased. It doesnt 
show the deposit of additional funds or confirm that these trades were within an ISA. Mr B 
has also provided his own workings out of his perceived loss via an editable spreadsheet, 
but as these are self-created I cant say Im persuaded by these on the balance of all the 
evidence available to me. Mr Bs also referred to future losses, but I cant see evidence of 
any particular trade he was planning on making or any evidence that shows hed used his 
full allowance in the subsequent year.
Mr B has contended that hes unable to provide this evidence as he feels firms do not 
provide end of year information on ISAs as theyre not required to do so. Ive considered his 
point carefully, but Im still satisfied that the option to provide some form of statement or 
audit log to demonstrate hed paid cash into an ISA account is available to him.
Mr B has suggested that he shouldnt be expected to invest his full ISA allowance in the year 
as investments are very reliant on timing and down to personal choice. I agree fully with his 
point, but the focus here is instead on whether he deposited the full allowance, there is no 
expectation for him to have traded the amount. To be clear  Id have only needed to see 
that the full allowance for the following tax year had been deposited into some form of ISA.
If Mr B is instead suggesting that he chose not to deposit funds into an ISA due to market 
conditions and his own personal choice of timing, then Im satisfied it wouldnt be fair to hold 
Interactive Investor responsible for the implications of such a decision.
  
As I cant be satisfied that Mr B has used the rest of his 2021/2022 tax year allowance, I 
cant say hes suffered a financial loss in this aspect of his complaint. Instead I feel that any 
recommendation for putting things right should be based around the distress and 
inconvenience hes suffered due to the issues experienced with Interactive.
JTA Fees
Its no longer disputed that Mr and Mrs B were shown an incorrect fee structure on 
Interactives website when they decided to take out the JTA. Im satisfied Interactives terms 
allow it to amend its fees for reasons such as errors. But Im also persuaded that Mr and Mrs 
B were subsequently charged £9.99 in fees in April 2021 which they would otherwise have 
not paid as they wouldnt have taken out the account had the correct pricing been shown. Im 
convinced of this because theyve since closed the account over the matter.
Mr B has also suggested that if Interactive had provided the account sooner he wouldve 
saved further costs, but on the same logic as above Im not satisfied this would have been 
the case as the incorrect price was not one that wouldve been maintained.
In summary, Interactive need to do more to put things right.
Putting things right
I understand that Mr B thinks his hourly rate should be the basis for compensation but as 
has already been explained this isnt how wed approach this. Instead we consider each 
case based on its own individual merits and assess the impact the issues experienced have 
caused.
 
I can see Mr B was denied access to his account for several days, and in that time he was 
concerned about the security of his account and had to contact Interactive to resolve the matter. Mr B was clearly upset to miss the deadline for the current tax year, and 
disappointed that the account fee was incorrectly displayed. Taking all this into account I 
think the recommendation by our Investigator of £100 in total for the distress and 
inconvenience experienced is a fair and reasonable one.
So, to put things right, Interactive should:
Refund the April 2021 £9.99 account fee.
Simple interest on this amount, from the date the amount was paid to the date of 
settlement. The rate of interest is 8% a year  this is for Mr and Mrs B being 
deprived of this sum of money over this period.
Interactive have already made a payment of £30. It should pay a further £70 to 
acknowledge the impact its errors have had on Mr B, bringing the total to £100.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Interactive Investor Services Limited to deduct tax from 
the interest payment referred to above. Interactive Investor Services Limited must give Mr B 
and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if they ask for one.
Im satisfied that this would be a fair and reasonable resolution for the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Interactive Investor 
Services Limited to carry out the instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman