DRN-2059463
 
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs S are being represented by a claims management company. Theyre 
complaining about The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) because they say they were mis-
sold an investment bond. Their representative says the bond wasnt suitable for them and 
that they werent told it may be subject to a market value reduction (MVR) when they 
withdrew their money.
What happened
Following advice from a RBS adviser in 2003, Mr M and Mrs S invested £15,000 in an 
investment bond with Norwich Union. The bond was invested in the with-profits fund. Mr M 
and Mrs S held the bond until they cashed it in 2009. I understand the amount they received 
was reduced by the application of a MVR.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be partly upheld. He was satisfied the adviser 
provided appropriate warnings about the possible application of a MVR and felt the 
investment itself was broadly suitable for Mr M and Mrs S. But he felt they were advised to 
invest too much of their money and recommended RBS pay compensation based on half the 
money they put in the bond.
RBS didnt accept the investigators assessment and made the following key points:
Mr M and Mrs S already had a PEP and an equity ISA, so were experienced 
investors.
They were both working, in final salary pension schemes, were a long way from 
retirement, had monthly disposable income and no large expenditure planned. They 
were also left with an adequate emergency fund worth around five months normal 
expenditure. In the circumstances, it was reasonable to recommend they invest the 
amount they did.
Mr M and Mrs S wanted to invest some of the money they held on deposit, so basing 
redress on the returns they would have achieved from deposit-based accounts 
doesnt make sense. The use of fixed-rate bonds is also inconsistent with the view 
that they shouldnt have been advised to tie up this money. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS advised Mr M and Mrs S on their investment and the adviser had a regulatory 
responsibility to make sure any recommendation was suitable for their circumstances and 
needs.
There doesnt seem to be any no dispute that Mr M and Mrs S were looking to invest for the 
future and to achieve capital growth. The sales documentation records they were willing to invest for at least five years and I note they held the bond for longer than that. Im satisfied 
the recommended bond was consistent with these aims.
In terms of risk, the adviser assessed Mr M and Mrs Ss attitude to risk as two on a scale of 
one to five, with five being the most speculative. Level two was described as follows:
I/we understand the relationship that exists between risk and reward. I/we would like to 
achieve a greater longer-term return than an interest paying account. I/we am/are therefore 
prepared to accept the risk of losing some of my/our money at any stage during the term of 
the investment by investing in a fund that invests in a wide range of assets, including shares 
and which follows a relatively cautious approach to risk but offers no guarantees; or tie up 
my/our money in a fixed term product that aims to offer a minimum amount at a set point in 
time.
After considering Mr M and Mrs Ss circumstances and existing investments at the time, as 
recorded by the adviser in the sales documentation, Im satisfied this was probably a 
reasonable assessment of the risks they were willing to take.
The with-profits fund selected wasnt subject to the day to day fluctuations of the stock 
market and would generally be considered a relatively low-risk proposition. But there was a 
risk to capital, mainly due to the possible application of a MVR.
After considering the documentation provided, Im satisfied the possibility that a MVR could 
be applied was explained. In particular, I note the adviser said in his suitability letter dated  1 
December 2003:
To protect remaining With Profit Fund policyholders we may need to apply a Market Value 
Reduction (MVR) on switching out of the fund, cancellation, full or partial surrender and if 
any withdrawal represents more than 7.5% of the original investment at the time of the 
withdrawal (This applies to regular withdrawals from the outset. Ad hoc withdrawals or 
regular withdrawals started subsequent to the inception of the policy will be subject to the 
Company's view of market conditions at that time). As a result, the value of your investment 
is not guaranteed and can go down as well as up.
I have made you aware that we are currently applying a Market Value Reduction (MVR) 
based on the size of the withdrawal and the age of the contract.
Not only did the adviser explain that a MVR could apply to withdrawals in the future, he also 
explained they were being applied at that time.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Mr M and Mrs S were made sufficiently aware 
of the potential risks to their capital and that the bond itself was broadly consistent with their 
objectives and attitude to risk.
But the responsibility to provide suitable advice went further than simply identifying Mr M and 
Mrs Ss attitude to risk and recommending they put all their available money in a product that 
matched this. The adviser also needed to make sure any recommendation made left them 
with an appropriately diversified and balanced portfolio. My issue with the advice in this case 
relates to the amount of money Mr M and Mrs S were advised to invest in the bond rather 
than the actual product chosen.
I can see Mr M and Mrs S were left with a reasonable emergency fund and didnt need to 
access the bond in the short-term, so it wasnt necessarily unreasonable to recommend their 
money was placed in investments intended for the medium to long term. My concern is 
rather that the money invested in the bond accounted for approximately 40% of their overall capital. I dont think the advice to invest so much of their money in a single product led to the 
creation of a suitably diversified or balanced portfolio. The investigator said Mr M and Mrs S 
should only have been advised to invest half the amount they did (so, £7,500) in the bond 
and I think thats a fair assessment in the circumstances.
In conclusion, Im satisfied Mr M and Mrs S were sufficiently warned that any withdrawal 
from the bond could be subject to a MVR. I also believe the bond itself was broadly suitable 
for them. But I do think they were advised to invest too much of their money in a single 
product and thats why Im upholding their complaint.
Putting Things Right
In assessing what represents fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr M and Mrs S as close 
possible to the position theyd probably now be in if they hadnt been given unsuitable 
advice. With suitable advice, I think they would have invested 50% of the money they put 
into the bond differently. Its not possible to say precisely what they would have done 
differently. But Im satisfied what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given their 
circumstances and objectives when they invested.
What should RBS do?
To compensate Mr M and Mrs S fairly, RBS must compare the performance of 50% of their 
investment with that of the benchmark shown below and pay the difference between the fair 
value and the actual value of the investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, 
no compensation is payable. RBS should also pay interest as set out below. Income tax may 
be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
with-profits 
bond surrenderedaverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end date 
to the date of 
settlement
Actual value             
This means 50% of the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the 50% of the amount invested would have been worth at the end date had it 
produced a return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, RBS should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:Mr M and Mrs S wanted to achieve a reasonable return without significant risk to this 
part of their capital. While I think they were generally willing to accept a small risk, Im 
conscious they already had risk-based investments and that Im saying it was 
appropriate for them to put another £7,500 at risk in the with-profits bond.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr M and 
Mrs S's circumstances and objectives. It doesnt mean they would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond, rather its the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint.
If Mr M and Mrs S accept my decision, The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc must pay them  
compensation calculated using the method set out above. It should provide Mr M and Mrs S 
with details of its calculations in a clear and understandable format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2020.
James Biles
Ombudsman