DRN-1804539
 
The complaint
Mr G says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender), irresponsibly lent to 
him. Mr G says the lending was unaffordable for him and he had to take further lending to 
pay off existing debts. He has told us this had a significant impact on his day-to-
living.                           
What happened
This complaint is about five short-term loans Mr Lender provided to Mr G between 
November 2014 and July 2015. Mr Gs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Deferral
1 19/11/2014 26/11/2014 1    £150.00  
2 04/12/2014 28/01/2015 1    £300.00  1
3 29/01/2015 27/02/2015 2    £570.00  
4 27/02/2015 06/07/2015 6    £660.00  
5 06/07/2015 Outstanding 6 £1,000.00  
 
When Mr G complained to Mr Lender it didnt uphold his complaint. But it said that for loan 
five  which was outstanding and had been sold to a third party  it would recall the debt and 
discount the outstanding balance so that Mr G wouldnt owe anything further to Mr Lender. It 
also said it would remove any adverse information from Mr Gs credit file. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. He thought that Mr Lender should have done 
more checks for the later loans, but that Mr Lenders offer would appear generous and he 
recommended it to Mr G.
Mr G said the offer was insufficient. He requested his case be reviewed to an ombudsman. 
So, it has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr G could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
Mr Lender has told us of the checks it carried out before agreeing to lend to Mr G. He 
confirmed his monthly income was £1,775 for each of the loans and expenditure each month 
was £467 for loan one and £720 for loans two to five. There was no evidence of IVA, 
bankruptcy or debt management plans on his credit file prior to the loans being approved. 
So, on the face of it the lending would appear affordable on a pounds and pence basis and it 
wasnt unreasonable for Mr Lender to have agreed to lend to Mr G. 
So, and like the adjudicator I think the checks were proportionate to the lending for loans one 
to three. But I think Mr Lender should have done more for loans four and five. I say this because Mr Gs borrowing was showing a pattern that the lending was potentially 
unaffordable for him and that it was unsustainable. Mr G would pay off one loan only to 
return very shortly afterwards for further borrowing  in some cases on the same or the next 
day after the earlier loan was repaid. And the amounts were consistently increasing - £150 at 
loan one to £1,000 at loan five eight months later. For loans four and five the term had 
increased to six months from one month at loan one. 
So, I do think there was evidence that Mr G was struggling with his finances and wasnt able 
to overcome whatever the financial circumstances were that had caused him to take this 
type of borrowing at the outset. He was having problems managing his money and the 
situation was getting worse. 
However, I dont have any additional information about Mr Gs circumstances to see what Mr 
Lender would have seen if it had carried out proportionate checks for loans four and five. So, 
in these circumstance, I cant make any more of a finding. 
But I note Mr lender has made an offer to Mr G. Mr G borrowed £1,000 at loan five and has 
repaid £800.66 of the capital. So that leaves £199.34 outstanding. In effect Mr G hasnt 
repaid more than the principal amount borrowed. If I were to uphold loan five, I would ask Mr 
Lender to repay to him the interest he had incurred plus any interest for the time he had 
been out of pocket. I would not be asking Mr Lender to write off any of the principal amount 
borrowed as Mr G had had use of that money.
Mr Lender has offered to recall Mr Gs debt from the third party it sold it to and discount the 
outstanding balance (£199.34 of capital plus interest on the total amount borrowed) to close 
the account so Mr G would no longer owe anything to Mr Lender. It also said it would contact 
the relevant credit reference agencies to remove any adverse information in relation to the 
loans Mr G had with Mr Lender from his credit file. 
Under the very particular circumstances of Mr Gs complaint, I think what Mr Lender has 
offered is reasonable. So, I wont be asking it to do anything more. It is now for Mr G to 
decide whether he wishes to accept the offer made by Mr Lender. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint and I wont be asking Mr 
Lender to do anything more than its already offered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21August2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman