DRN-4217109
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain about the offer made by Ageas Insurance Limited to settle an 
insurance claim for a lost necklace.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Mr S and Mrs S have home insurance underwritten by Ageas which covers their home and 
its contents. It also covers personal possessions away from the home.
They made a claim in January 2023 after discovering that a necklace had been lost. They 
think it was most likely lost whilst they were on holiday a few months previously.
Ageas accepted the claim and asked their agent to provide a replacement. Because the 
necklace was no longer made by the manufacturer it was impossible to replace it directly. 
The agent  an expert jewellery company  estimated that a similar necklace could be 
obtained at retail for £2780. And they offered Mr S and Mrs S that amount on a card which 
could be used with certain suppliers.
Mr S and Mrs S werent happy with that and asked Ageas to make a cash settlement offer. 
On that basis, they were offered £1,556.50 (less an excess). This was the amount Ageas 
would have had to pay their agent to provide a replacement for the necklace.
Mr S and Mrs S made a complaint to Ageas. They didnt want to accept the card settlement 
because it could only be used at certain outlets and couldnt be used to purchase items at 
sale prices. And the cash offer was too low to allow them to replace the necklace. 
They also said their own jeweller had said a suitable replacement would cost £3,000.
Ageas didnt uphold Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint. They said the offers were fair and in line 
with the terms and conditions of Mr S and Mrs Ss policy. 
So, Mr S and Mrs S brought their complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it and didnt 
think Ageas had done anything wrong. 
Mr S and Mrs S disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no real dispute in this case about what the policy terms say. They say Ageas will 
replace lost items or make a cash offer to settle a claim. And theyre clear that Ageas will 
decide which way (replacement or cash) to settle a claim.
They also say Ageas may use one of their partners to replace an item. But if the policyholder 
chooses instead to obtain a replacement themselves, Ageas will only pay what it would have 
cost them to replace the item through their partners.
Im assuming Mr S and Mrs S were aware of the terms of the policy when they bought it. If 
not, thats not Ageas fault.
In this case, Ageas agent said that in their expert opinion the necklace could be replaced 
with a close equivalent at a retail cost of £2,870. Thats close enough to the estimate given 
by Mr S and Mrs Ss own jeweller (£3,000) to satisfy me that the agents valuation isnt 
unreasonably low.
In other words, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Ageas to conclude  on the 
basis of the information provided by their partner  that Mr S and Mrs S could satisfactorily 
replace the necklace if they were given a card to the value of £2,870 to spend with a range 
of suppliers.
As I say, the policy terms are clear that Ageas will decide how to settle a claim. And their 
offer of £2,870 on a card is a fair and reasonable way to settle this claim.
Ageas went beyond that and gave Mr S and Mrs S the option of a cash settlement. And they 
did so in line wit the terms and conditions of the policy. 
The documents we have in hand show that the partner organisation were willing and able to 
supply Ageas with a replacement for the necklace at a cost to Ageas of £1,556.50. 
Ageas can achieve discounts from their suppliers in these circumstances. And that means 
any cash settlement  which will be in line with what Ageas would have had to pay to replace 
the item in question  will inevitably be lower than the retail cost to the customer of the same 
item.
However, its reasonable for Ageas to conclude that the card settlement on offer would allow 
Mr S and Mrs S to replace their necklace. Its Mr S and Mrs Ss option to take the lower cash 
offer if they prefer. 
But Ageas have not only applied the policy terms, theyve also kept to the spirit of the policy 
in properly indemnifying Mr S and Mrs S for their loss by giving them a means (the card 
settlement) to replace the lost item at no further cost to themselves.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman