DRN-4067074
The complaint
C, a limited company, complains that ClearBank Limited refuses to refund the money lost to 
a scam from its Tide-branded business bank account.
Mr W brings this complaint in his capacity as Cs director.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
In mid-July 2022 Mr W received a call from someone purporting to work for Tide but who 
turned out to be a scammer. The scammer convinced Mr W that Cs Tide-branded 
business bank account was at risk and persuaded him to move almost all the money 
(£55,200) out of the account via two faster payments. The scammer led Mr W to believe 
that this money was being sent to new accounts held in his name. But when the 
accounts didnt show up on his online banking, he realised hed been scammed.
ClearBank tried to recover Cs money from the two receiving accounts after Mr W 
reported the scam. But the money had already been withdrawn. It refused to refund 
either payment, but offered £50 compensation to recognise its poor handling of the 
matter, including its failure to contact the receiving bank promptly. Mr W remained 
unhappy, so referred a complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought the first, £40,000 payment, was so out of character that 
ClearBank ought to have intervened before allowing it to go through. She thought the 
scam wouldve been uncovered and Cs losses prevented. So she recommended that 
ClearBank should refund both of the disputed transactions, but it disagreed. However, 
ClearBank accepted the investigators proposal to increase its compensation award to 
£200. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and despite what ClearBank has said and provided, Ive reached the same 
outcome as the investigator for much the same reasons. I think ClearBank should refund all 
of the money C lost to the scam (along with interest to recognise that C has been deprived of 
that money) and also pay £200 compensation. Ive reached this conclusion having taken the 
following into account.
Theres no dispute that Mr W authorised both of the disputed payments on behalf of C. So, 
although he didnt intend the money to go to the scammer, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of the account, C is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance. But the matter doesn't end there.
ClearBank should also be on the lookout for, and help to prevent, payments that could 
involve fraud or be the result of a scam. I accept a balance must be struck between 
identifying payments that may indicate a customer is potentially at risk of financial harm  
and then responding appropriately to any concerns  and ensuring minimal disruption to 
legitimate payments. But I do think ClearBank should have identified a risk in this particular 
case.
ClearBank says its fraud detections systems werent triggered by either payment. Its 
pointed out that it believes the threshold for such triggers are different for retail and business 
customers. And it says its not unusual for business customers spending to evolve and 
payments to increase in value as time goes on. Ive considered carefully what ClearBank 
has said and also reviewed the statements its provided showing how Cs account was 
operated in the previous year or so since it was opened. The highest payment made from 
the account in that period of time was considerably less than the £40,000 payment that was 
initially sent to the account controlled by the scammer and it greatly depleted the account 
balance. The £15,200 payment that followed was made just 30 minutes later and took the 
balance to less than £300. I also note the Confirmation of Payee (COP) checks revealed that 
the payee names Mr W entered didnt match the actual names on the receiving accounts.  I 
think these circumstances bore the hallmarks of a scam and ClearBank ought to have 
blocked the £40,000 payment and contacted Mr W to ask some appropriate questions. Had 
it done so I see no reason why it wouldnt have been able to uncover the scam and prevent 
Cs losses.
When setting up the new payees in order to make the two disputed payments, the scammer 
guided Mr W into entering payee names that matched or closely matched his own name. 
Mr W seems to have done so because he thought the money was being moved into safe 
accounts held in his own name. But he also says he doesnt have control over those 
accounts and I have no reason to doubt him. I say this, not least, because (as Ive already 
mentioned) ClearBank has provided evidence that shows the COP checks revealed that the 
actual account name didnt match the account name that Mr W had entered. ClearBank says 
the resulting messages he was shown that confirmed this ought to have stopped Mr W 
making the payments. But the examples messages ClearBank has provided say only to 
make sure the recipients details are correct and warn that the sender might not get their 
money back if its sent to the wrong account. The messages make no mention of the 
possibility that a scam might be taking place. When we asked, Mr W said he didnt 
remember seeing the messages, but six months had passed since the disputed transactions 
took place and I appreciate that memories can fade over time. In the circumstances Mr W 
has described, I can well imagine that the scammer guided him past these messages, with 
the effects that they didnt really register or ring true to the situation he found himself in. 
I can also understand why Mr W accepted what the scammer was telling him given they 
seem to have spoofed one of Tides genuine contact numbers, and knew very specific 
details about the account and the way Tides app-based platform operated. This was 
possible, it seems, because Mr W provided some details about his account the day before 
after replying to what he thought was a genuine message about an expected delivery but 
which was, in fact, a phishing exercise. I dont think Mr W ought to have realised he was 
being scammed or ought to have done more to verify the callers identify before complying 
with their requests. Overall, as I dont think Mr W (on behalf of C) acted unreasonably it 
wouldnt be fair to conclude that C should share liability with ClearBank for its losses.
ClearBank has already agreed to increase the compensation award from £50 to £200 and I 
think thats fair in the circumstances. ClearBank should have contacted the receiving bank 
sooner, but its clear that this wouldnt have made a difference because Cs money was 
removed from the receiving accounts very soon after it went in and well before Mr W 
reported the scam. More importantly, I think, ClearBank should have responded more promptly to Mr Ws enquires about the progress of his claim, including whether it was safe to 
continue using the business account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct ClearBank Limited to:
Refund £55,200 to Cs account.
Pay interest on the above refund calculated at 8% simple per year (less any tax properly 
deductible*) from 16 July 2022 to the date of settlement.  
Pay an additional £200 compensation (or £150 if ClearBank has already paid the £50 it 
initially offered).
*If ClearBank Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from the interest award, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also 
provide a tax deduction certificate if Mr W asks for one, so the tax can be reclaimed from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
ClearBank Limited should settle the matter within 28 days of receiving notification of the  
acceptance of my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W (on behalf of 
C) to accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman