DRN-2749179
The complaint
Mr D has complained about Phoenix Wealth Services Limited (Phoenix). Amongst other 
complaint points raised, hes said Phoenix ignored his instructions when dealing with paying 
cash distributions into his pension. As a result, he feels he has lost out financially.
What happened
Mr D held a pension with Phoenix which was invested in part in the Woodford Equity Income 
Fund (WEIF). In June 2019 the fund was suspended and subsequently formally wound up in 
January 2020.
Following this the Authorised Corporate Director (ACD) of the fund, a business not related to 
Phoenix, began the first phase of paying out any available capital distributions to relevant 
investors. And in relation to Mr Ds pension investment, the ACD sent a portion of his share 
of the capital raised to Phoenix to attribute back to his pension.
For Mr D, and any other clients affected in the same way, Phoenix invested these cash 
distributions into the Artemis Income Fund (Artemis) which it says was chosen because it 
closely matched the characteristics of the WEIF. It also made it clear it would continue to do 
this with any further distributions that would follow.
Phoenix informed Mr D of the action it had taken in February and March 2020. In these 
letters Phoenix included a statement that the fund switch to Artemis had been completed in 
accordance with Mr Ds instructions. This is what prompted Mr D to raise his complaint 
initially. Hes said he had instructed Phoenix to pay the capital distributions received from the 
ACD to him directly so by reinvesting the monies it had failed to follow his instructions. He 
was also unhappy that Phoenix had said the payment into Artemis was made in accordance 
with his instruction when this wasnt true.
When Phoenix investigated the complaint, it agreed its letters had contained incorrect 
information about what Mr D had instructed it to do but explained this is what the ACD of 
WEIF has directed it do.  It also accepted that it should have sent the flexi access drawdown 
benefit options form to Mr D when it wrote out to him which would have enabled him to 
release the monies if he had wanted. It apologised for the error and offered Mr D 
compensation. It also stated it would ensure Mr D would not suffer any loss if he returned 
those forms completed.
Mr D remained unhappy so further communication between him and Phoenix continued. 
Mr D also contacted the ACD to find out exactly what instructions it had provided to Phoenix 
and he found it hadnt provided any such instructions.
Mr D raised this with Phoenix and it apologised again for this error and offered further 
monies by way of compensation.
As Mr D remained unhappy with Phoenix he brought his complaint to this Service. He 
reiterated the point that the cash should have been paid directly to him rather than be re-
invested. He also commented that as Phoenix had already provided incorrect/untrue 
information how can it be trusted. He also questioned why he should incur charges to start 
the drawdown process when, in his view, Phoenix should have paid the monies directly to 
him in the first place.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who was of the view it couldnt be 
upheld. She felt that it was reasonable for Phoenix to have reinvested the cash distributions 
in to Mr Ds pension. And she was satisfied with the amount Phoenix had offered Mr D to 
compensate for the errors it had made.
Mr D didnt agree with the assessment.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
As outlined above Mr D has expressed how unhappy he is Phoenix reinvested his cash 
distributions released from the suspended WEIF rather than paying him directly. Hes said 
there is nothing that states this cant be done so he feels Phoenix has made a mistake by 
reinvesting into Artemis. Therefore, any loss suffered by being in this fund along with any 
fees and charges incurred by moving out of this fund should be covered by Phoenix.
However, from everything I have seen, in my view Phoenix didnt do anything wrong in 
reinvesting the money received from the ACD.
When a pension is still in place if anything needs to be paid into it as a result of a redress 
payment born out of an error the first course of action is always to pay that money back into 
the pension  it is the pension that has suffered a loss therefore it is the pension that should 
be made good again. This is the approach used in this Service and its based on the 
principal of trying, as much as possible, to put a consumer into the position they would have 
been in had the error not occurred. Only if this cant be done would we expect a cash 
payment to be made directly to the pension holder. And in reality this is a last resort because 
the cash being paid to a consumer would have tax implications. 
So in relation to what Phoenix did with the cash distributions I dont think it did anything 
wrong, and even though Mr D feels he provided clear instructions for the payment to be 
made directly I am satisfied that Phoenix acted correctly in reinvesting the cash distributions 
it received from the ACD. It is right for the funds to be paid back into the pension and if Mr D 
wants those monies, he can follow the drawdown process already explained to him.
With regards to the choice of Artemis, it is confirmed that it was Phoenixs choice because it 
was close to the characteristics of the WEIF. It isnt for me to challenge this, but I am 
satisfied with Phoenixs rationale for choosing the fund. The fact that it may have performed 
badly isnt because of anything Phoenix has done nor is it its responsibility  this is the 
nature of investing and the value of an investment can go up and down at any time. I also 
dont think Phoenix had any reason to ask Mr D where he wanted the cash distributions paid 
because as I have said above the first method in a situation like this is to always pay any 
loss back into the pension.
However, having said that, it is disappointing to see that Phoenix gave wrong information to 
Mr D about the ACD choosing Artemis. I am also disappointed to see that Phoenix stated in its letters that Mr D had instructed them knowing full well this wasnt the case. I therefore 
understand why this would affect the trust Mr D now has in Phoenix. But I can see Phoenix 
has already offered Mr D a total of £250 in recognition of these errors and in my view this 
amount sufficiently recognises the impact of these mistakes. So I have no reason to ask 
Phoenix to pay anything further.
Fundamentally, Mr D is now in the position he would have been in had there been no 
problems with the WEIF and there had never been any cash distribution payments required. 
If Mr D now wants to release this money from his pension, in line with the terms and 
conditions of his plan he can start the drawdown process. And even though Mr D had 
already started this for his existing pension he would now be entitled to a maximum of 25% 
of the Artemis fund value as tax free and the remainder would be transferred to the 
drawdown and Mr D would have the option to take the taxable income or switch funds. While 
these actions would mean Mr D would incur charges, I am satisfied with Phoenixs actions of 
paying into Artemis and these charges are something Mr D would have always been 
charged therefore would always have had to pay them.
I understand Mr Ds frustration and I do think Phoenix could have done better from a 
customer service and information perspective. But I am satisfied it has sufficiently 
recognised its errors. I am also satisfied with Phoenix paying the cash distributions back into 
Mr Ds pensions because this is the right way handling such matters when a pension has 
been disadvantaged and is still active.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman