DRN-2773152
The complaint
Mr R complains about a loan he took from UK Credit Limited.
What happened
In April 2018, Mr R applied for and received a loan of £2,000. It was to be repaid in 36 
monthly instalments of £95.96. He says he doesnt believe the loan was ever affordable for 
him and if UK Credit had carried out proper checks, he believes it should have refused to 
lend to him.
UK Credit says it carried out its usual checks which included obtaining proof of his income, 
reviewing his credit file and a conversation about his expenditure. It said in the 
circumstances, the checks were proportionate and showed Mr R ought to have been able to 
afford the loan. UK Credit rejected Mr Rs complaint. 
Mr R didnt agree and referred his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it and 
felt that UK Credit ought to have carried out more checks based on the information it found 
on Mr Rs credit file, and that Mr Rs initially declare expenditure took the loan outside 
UK Credits usual affordability measures. Our investigator felt that if UK Credit had carried 
out further checks, it would have declined Mr Rs application. He upheld the complaint and 
asked UK Credit to put things right.
Mr R agreed with our investigator, but UK Credit didnt. As there was no agreement, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit on our website  
including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered 
this approach when deciding this complaint.
UK Credit needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that it 
didnt lend to Mr R irresponsibly. The checks were for UK Credit to satisfy itself that Mr R 
would be able to repay the loan sustainably. Its not about UK Credit assessing the 
likelihood of it being repaid, but it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on 
him.
There is no set list of checks that it had to do, but it could take into account several different 
things such as the amount and length of the loan, the amount of the monthly repayments 
and the overall circumstances of the borrower. The fact that the loan was guaranteed by a 
third party and the potential for UK Credit to pursue the guarantor instead of Mr R doesnt 
alter or lessen the obligation.
As mentioned above, UK Credit obtained proof of income, checked Mr Rs credit file and 
spoke to him about his expenditure. So I understand why, on the face of it, UK Credit felt it 
had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks for a relatively small loan of £2,000. 
But its not enough simply to carry out the checks, it needs to consider the information is 
receives as a result in order to reach a fair decision to lend. On this occasion, I dont think it 
did reach a fair decision to lend  let me explain why. 
Mr R supplied a copy of his employment contract as his proof of his income. This showed 
hed only been in employment around three weeks and was on a six-month probationary 
period. It confirmed his annual salary as £20,232. I dont think its wrong to consider income 
and employment where the position is so new, but I think it ought to be bourn in mind that it 
is potentially less secure than someone whod been employed for some time and was no 
longer in a probation period.
Mr Rs credit file showed hed previously had some financial difficulties, leading to three 
accounts falling into default in an 18-month period between 2012 and 2014. But since then, 
until September 2017, he appeared to have got things back on track  albeit, the defaults 
were still outstanding.
In September 2017, Mr R borrowed £2,000 from a different lender to be repaid over three 
years. In November 2017, he opened a credit card with a £1,500 limit. Then in 
December 2017, he repaid the loan by borrowing £5,250 over five years using the same 
lender. He then refinanced this again in February 2018 with a loan of £7,000 over five years.
UK Credit spoke to Mr R to obtain details of his expenditure. During the call, Mr R was a little 
vague about amounts of expenditure. He said he and his partner (who was also his 
guarantor for this application) take it in turns to pay the mortgage  one month each  but he 
was unclear on what the amount he paid was. Moving on to the household and food bills 
Mr R said they were split down the middle. After discussing utility bills which were split with 
his partner, Mr R said he paid the broadband but had no idea how much it is  I think it 
comes out of my account  I think its like18 quid a month. For food and house keeping 
costs he said err, a month? phff, about 80 quid, a month, my contribution, I dunno. The 
advisor said that seemed low and asked him if he was sure. Mr R said shall we goyou 
think more?...£120?. The advisor accepted that figure.
On clothing, Mr R said he spent around £50 a month, and they moved on to discuss 
motoring expenses as the loan for a car. For entertainment and pets, Mr R said he spent 
money on his cat and nights out with his partner  well have a night out a week, so, forty or 
fifty quidaround £100 a month maybe (he shared the cost with his partner). The adviser 
said having considered all the expenses hed mentioned and his commitments to other 
credit, his application had fallen outside of the affordability criteria. So is there anything that 
 youve over estimated?. Mr R said hed given figures to try and be safe. When pushed, 
he said chop down the entertainment then and almost halved the cost of that from £131 per 
month to £70 which brought it into line the criteria.
So reviewing the information UK Credit had from Mr R, it will have seen hed experienced 
previous problems, hed recently started to borrow significant sums of money based on his 
income, was in a new job and seemed uncertain of his budget. Based on the figures hed 
given initially, UK Credit had said the loan was outside its affordability criteria. 
Given the situation, Ive outlined, I think dont think UK Credit carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. I think it would have been sensible for UK Credit to make further 
checks to ensure the loan was likely to be sustainable for Mr R. I bear in mind too the rules 
lenders have to follow which are set by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC). At the time of this application, CONC 5.3.1 4(b) said it is not 
generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the customers income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters made by the customer. 
As Ive said, there is no set list of checks a lender has to carry out  and that also applies to 
any further checks it wishes to make. So Ive thought about what it might have done had it 
asked for more evidence of Mr Rs financial circumstances, and that may have included a 
review of his bank statements. Mr R has provided us with banks statements from 
December 2017 to April 2018 when he took this loan. Ive seen that Mr R was routinely 
gambling a high proportion of his income (a little over half in the few months for which 
statements were provided). 
Had UK Credit requested these at the time, I think it would have linked this behaviour to the 
large amount of credit recently acquired and noted it was being asked to increase his 
indebtedness further. I think it more likely than not it would have refused to lend to Mr R. Im 
not satisfied UK Credit reached a fair decision to lend to Mr R, so I am upholding his 
complaint. I dont think however, that Ive seen any evidence to suggest it has treated him 
unfairly in any other way.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business to 
put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the mistake it made hadnt 
happened, as far as is reasonably practical. 
In this case, that would mean putting Mr R in the position he would be in now if he hadnt 
been given the loan. Mr R was given the loan, used the money so its right he should repay 
what hes received.
So, I think UK Credit should:
Calculate the total amount Mr R received from UK Credit and deduct from that figure 
the repayments hes made to each loan. 
oIf this results in Mr R having repaid more than he received, any overpayments 
should be refunded to him. Interest at a rate of 8% simple per year should be 
added to any overpayments from the date they were made until the date of 
settlement*.
oIf the calculation means theres still a balance for Mr R to pay, UK Credit 
should let him know how much is outstanding and reach a suitable, affordable 
payment plan with him. I remind UK Credit of its obligation to treat customers 
fairly. 
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Rs credit file regarding each loan. 
*If UK Credit considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. UK Credit Limited should put matters right as 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022. 
Richard HaleOmbudsman