DRN-1252241
The complaint
Mr A complains that Aviva Insurance Limited trading as Quotemehappy.com (Aviva) 
recorded a claim against him on a motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A insured his car with Aviva. It contacted him to say it had been told by another insurance 
company that hed been involved in an incident. Mr A denied this was the case and sent 
photos of his car and details of people hed been with on the day of the incident. 
Aviva denied liability for the incident and the matter was taken to arbitration. Mr A was found 
liable for the incident so Aviva recorded the claim against him and added a record of the 
claim to databases.
When Mr A was renewing his policy, he was told that the claim had been settled and hed 
been found liable for the incident. He complained to Aviva. It said it should have told him 
about the finding of liability and offered £200 compensation.
Mr A didnt accept this. He wants Aviva to remove the reference to the claim from databases 
and a significantly higher amount of compensation. He brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt think Aviva should do any more than it had already offered. He 
considered there was enough evidence to suggest Mr As car had been involved in the 
incident.
Mr As asked for an ombudsmans decision. He says the information relied on by Aviva is 
incorrect, he can prove he wasnt involved in the incident by way of witnesses and that the 
photos relied on as evidence of the car having been involved were from a previous incident 
which happened 3 years before.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I should say that I wont be considering liability for the incident in question. 
What I will look at is whether Aviva did enough to present Mr As position at arbitration, and 
then whether its acted fairly in recording the claim against Mr A after liability was 
determined.
Avivas presentation of Mr As position
I can see that Aviva were informed by Mr A that he hadnt been involved in an incident as 
was being alleged, and that when it asked him to provide further information he did this. He 
sent photos of the car, and also names and contact details of witnesses he said could 
confirm he hadnt been involved in an incident.But I can also see that theres no evidence Aviva then followed up on this information by 
contacting the witnesses to validate Mr As account. And the notes from arbitration suggest 
no witnesses were put forward to refute the other insurers account of what had happened.
So I dont think that Aviva did all it could before the arbitration in order to present Mr As 
position. But Im not convinced it would have made a material difference to the determination 
that the incident had occurred. The damage shown in the photos provided by the other 
insurer show damage to the rear drivers side of the car. But the photos sent by Mr A dont 
show the same parts of the car. 
Mr A believes that the photos provided by the other insurer are from the previous incident. 
But the previous claim was for damage to the front drivers side of the car. The photos dont 
show damage of this type, so Im not persuaded they were taken at the time of the previous 
incident. I've also seen evidence from Aviva showing that there was no damage to the part 
of the car shown in the photos of this incident when the previous claim was made. I'm not 
satisfied Mr A has shown any reason for me to believe the photos of the damage aren't from 
this incident.
The photos of the car provided by the other insurer also show that the car has taxi 
registration plates attached to it. I know Mr A suggests the photos were from a previous 
incident but Avivas shown that at the time of the previous incident, the car wasnt registered 
as a taxi. So Im satisfied that the photos are from the date thats been suggested by the 
other insurer. Im not persuaded that Aviva could have realistically denied Mr As car was 
involved in the incident based on the evidence available to it.
The recording of the claim against Mr A
With the arbitration having concluded that Mr A was liable for the incident, and with Aviva 
having insufficient evidence on which to deny the car hadnt been involved, it seems 
reasonable for a claim to be recorded against Mr A.
I know Mr As provided evidence from his employer that at the time of the incident, he was at 
work. And hes also provided witness statements from two people who were with him. These 
say they were with him after he finished work. But I can see that, when Aviva was 
investigating his complaint, it spoke to one of the witnesses. On that occasion, the witness 
account would suggest they were with Mr A at the time of the incident. So there seems to be 
a discrepancy about where Mr A was at the time of the incident. One of the witnesses has 
said they were with Mr A, whereas he says he was at work.
And, as Ive said, the evidence of the photos is, I think, persuasive in terms of showing that 
the car was involved in the incident. Mr As policy lists himself and a female as drivers of the 
car. The photographs of the incident show a male was driving the car. Hes not suggested 
anyone else was driving the car at the time of the incident. 
So I think Aviva had enough evidence to show that Mr As car was involved in the incident. 
Of the two drivers named on the policy, Mr A is the only one who could reasonably be 
assumed to have been involved based on the photos. And in the absence of anything to 
show that someone else was driving the car, it was fair for it to record a claim against him.
But having recorded the claim, I think Aviva should have told Mr A about this. But it didnt, 
and he only learnt about this when he came to renew his policy. Avivas acknowledged it 
should have done better and offered to pay £200 compensation in recognition of its error. I 
think this is a reasonable offer. Mr As been distressed by learning about what had happened 
in this way and gone to significant lengths to disprove what Aviva has said. I know Mr A 
thinks Aviva should pay more compensation because of whats happened, but I think the amount offered fairly reflects the level of distress and inconvenience caused by Avivas error. 
I wont be asking it to increase the amount of compensation it pays Mr A.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2020.
Ben Williams
Ombudsman