DRN-2791202
The complaint
Mr S has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc hung up on him and were difficult to get in 
contact with when he was trying to do a chargeback.
What happened
In October 2020, Mr S wanted to do a chargeback for an item he says wasnt as advertised. 
He explained that HSBCs phone lines were busy, so he tried various methods of getting in 
touch such as the chat function and feedback form. But he had trouble getting through to 
someone who could deal with his chargeback. 
When HSBC did reply, they said the chargeback could take a number of weeks, which Mr S 
was unhappy about. They asked Mr S to call them about the dispute, and he says he was on 
hold for about an hour and a half, and then they hung up on him. But after that, they still 
asked if he would speak to them on the phone.
HSBC apologised. They explained that Covid-19 had put a lot of pressure on their services. 
They permanently refunded the transaction in dispute.
Our investigator looked into things independently and thought HSBC had already resolved 
things fairly. They explained that the global pandemic had caused delays and issues which 
were outside of HSBCs control. And in any case, HSBC had given Mr S a full refund in good 
time. They said that mistakes sometimes happen, and they felt HSBCs apology was enough 
for hanging up on Mr S.
Mr S didnt agree. He was particularly aggrieved that HSBC had hung up. The complaints 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I should clarify that chargebacks are part of a voluntary scheme, and are just a 
possible way of getting money back from a merchant. Banks are not obliged to put 
chargebacks through, though I think it was good practice that HSBC helped Mr S here.
Banks have to follow timescales which the chargeback scheme sets out. While I do 
appreciate that Mr S was unhappy with the timescales involved, I dont think that HSBC did 
anything wrong there. Indeed, here they gave Mr S a full refund in less than a couple of 
weeks, which is really quite good considering how long chargebacks can take.
I also understand Mr S was unhappy that HSBC required him to contact them to discuss the 
chargeback  but again, as part of the chargeback process they needed to discuss it with 
him. The matter was always going to take up some time for Mr S. And in the end, HSBC 
simply refunded the payment instead, so Mr S didnt have to go through the full chargeback 
process.
I do understand Mr Ss point of view and his frustration. Nobody likes having to wait on hold 
for significant periods, and I appreciate it would have been rather galling indeed to find that 
the phone line had disconnected after that wait. I also appreciate it was harder than normal 
to get in touch with HSBC. Ive thought carefully about what happened.
HSBC were operating during an unprecedented global pandemic, which made it much 
harder for them to deal with queries or to staff phone lines and chat services, and the 
pandemic meant lots of people needed to speak to them. So naturally, hold times were much 
longer than normal. I think those delays were more a result of the pandemic than HSBC 
doing anything substantially wrong.
It sounds like HSBC did get things wrong by disconnecting Mr Ss call, and as I said above 
I completely understand why that wouldve been frustrating. But as far as I can see, thats 
the only thing they really got wrong here. Otherwise, they got Mr S a full refund relatively 
quickly, without him having to go through the full chargeback process  and despite the 
pandemic. And they apologised for what happened and fed back his comments. In the 
circumstances of this case, I think thats enough to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman