DRN-2528011
The complaint
Miss H complains that a car she has been financing through an agreement with Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) was misrepresented to her.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss H, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss H acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
I understand that the main element of Miss Hs complaint has now been resolved. VWFS 
have accepted the car was misrepresented to her as it didnt have the features advertised. 
Theyve allowed her to return the car to them and have ended the agreement. Theyre also 
in agreement that the deposit should be refunded with interest. Thats clearly the case as 
Miss H has been deprived of that money. 
I am not being asked to reconsider that decision, but Miss H has asked for an ombudsman 
to review the 5% refund of instalments the investigator suggested for loss of enjoyment and 
the compensation of £100 he thought was appropriate in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience he thought Miss H had experienced.
Miss H should have been provided with a car that had leather seats, climate control and 
cruise control. I can understand that each of these items were important to her and I 
understand her frustration at not receiving what she expected. 
But there were no mechanical issues with the car and a considerable proportion of the 
functionality expected was provided. In those circumstances I would agree with the 
investigators view that a refund of 5% of finance instalments is appropriate to compensate 
Miss H for the loss of enjoyment she would have experienced when receiving a car that 
didnt have the equipment she had anticipated.
Im also persuaded that £100 is sufficient compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
experienced. Miss H has had to escalate her complaint to this service when I think it could 
have been resolved a little earlier. I understand Miss Hs receipt of the car was delayed but it 
would not be fair to hold VWFS responsible for that. It appears to have been an issue with 
the dealership and not one related to the negotiation of the finance agreement. Miss H may 
wish to raise that complaint with the dealer if she hasnt done so already.
Putting things right
So, I dont think VWFS need to take any additional action than that already agreed through 
the investigator. As only some of that redress has been provided I will set it out again below. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited, if they havent already done so, to:
allow Miss H to reject the car and end the agreement;
refund Miss Hs deposit and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;
refund 5% of monthly instalments due to loss of enjoyment;
pay Miss H £100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced.
If Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited consider they are required by HM Revenue 
and Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, they should tell Miss H how much 
they've taken off and give a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one so she can reclaim 
the tax if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman