DRN-1581158
 
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Cuvva Limited cancelled his motor insurance policy after he was 
stopped by the police.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr M took out a motor insurance policy with Cuvva. But Cuvva cancelled 
his policy after they received a call from the Motor Insurance Bureau (MIB), who wanted to 
check Mr Ms insurance cover after hed been stopped by the police. 
Mr M said he regularly took out short term insurance policies for his cars for when he needed 
to have insurance cover. He said he taken out the insurance policy with Cuvva before he 
was stopped by the police. The police said he was driving without insurance. But Mr M said 
the policy had been agreed before this, and it was a time lag that meant the police had been 
given incorrect information. He complained to Cuvva.
 Cuvva said theyd cancelled Mr Ms insurance as hed been driving his car before hed taken 
out the motor insurance policy with them. And that the insurance cover was applied for at a 
time when hed been stopped by the police. Cuvva said theyd cancelled Mr Ms policy in 
accordance with the policys terms and conditions, as it was being used outside of its 
intended application.
Mr M wasnt happy with Cuvvas response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said it wasnt our role to decide whether Mr M had been driving without 
insurance. But whether Cuvva had acted fairly and reasonably in taking the action they had. 
He said Cuvva had acted in line with their terms and conditions.
Mr M disagreed and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Where there is a different version of events, as has happened here, I need to determine 
what I think most likely happened.
The Road Traffic Act (1988), makes it a legal requirement for all vehicles used on the road to 
be insured. The duration of a policy is generally for a 12 month period, but Is also possible 
to buy policies for temporary cover for less than a month. Mr M has said its his common 
practise to obtain motor insurance cover as and when he needed it. And Ive no reason to 
doubt this is what he usually does.The main crux of Mr Ms complaint is the timing of when he took out the motor insurance 
policy with Cuvva. Mr M says this happened prior to his being stopped by the police. 
The MIB work with insurers, the public, the police and the DVLA with the aim of reducing the 
amount of uninsured drivers and vehicles on the road. And I can see that MIB, shortly after 
Mr M had been stopped by the police, checked with Cuvva about the insurance cover Mr M 
had with them. From the information provided by MIB, Cuvva could see not only the time Mr 
M was stopped by the police but also where this stop took place.
And I can see the time the insurance cover was applied for coincided with the time Mr M was 
stopped by the police. Mr M has said he took out the policy shortly before he was stopped by 
the police. But I can see Cuvva based their decision not just on when they were told this 
happened but also where it happened.
 Cuvvas terms and conditions say:
 We reserve the right to resign as your insurance intermediary at any time. We may issue a 
warning, suspend, or freeze your account if you breach any of these terms; infringe or 
attempt to infringe any rights of other people; if you're using a product outside its intended 
application; if we suspect you're using the app to commit or attempt to commit a criminal 
offence; or if you abuse our staff.
 As outlined above its a legal requirement to have motor insurance cover when using a car 
on a road. And Cuvva has shown the place where Mr M was stopped by the police, was 
some six miles from his home address. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Cuvva to 
reach the conclusion that at the start of Mr Ms car journey he didnt have motor insurance 
cover. And that he took out the insurance cover with them around the time of the police 
check.
So, Im satisfied that Cuvva has acted in line with their terms and conditions in cancelling Mr 
Ms insurance. As there are implications for Mr M in not having insurance I have also looked 
to see if Cuvva had acted fairly and reasonably in notifying him about their decision. And I 
can see they told him theyd cancelled his policy within seven days of the policy being taken 
out, which is what Id expect.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman