DRN-3968792
The complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund the money he lost when he was the 
victim of what he feels was a scam.
What happened
In 2016 Mr K was contacted by someone who said they worked for an investment company, 
with an opportunity to invest in the delivery and sale of bottled water in a foreign country. 
Mr K looked into the company and was happy to go ahead with the investment, so sent a 
number of payments to the investment company between June 2016 and July 2017. He also 
received a number of payments back from the investment company. And Ive set out the 
payments he made and received below:
Date Details Amount
13 June 2016 Cheque payment £5,000
21 September 2016 Electronic payment £7,000
7 March 2017 Cheque payment £10,000
22 June 2017 Payment received from investment company £380.82
14 July 2017 Cheque payment £10,000
27 September 2017 Payment received from investment company £2,436
In 2019, Mr K was contacted by the director of the investment company and told that the 
company had gone into liquidation. Mr K was told he would get all his money back, but he 
didnt receive any of his money back or any further communication from the director or the 
company. So Mr K contacted Santander to report the payments as a scam and ask it to 
refund the money he had lost.
Santander investigated, but said Mr K had authorised all the payments and so it didnt agree 
to refund the money he had lost. Mr K wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, so 
referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They said they didnt think Mr K had been 
the victim of a scam, as the investment company appeared to have been operating 
legitimately and Mr K had received a number of payments in return for his investments. So 
they didnt think Santander should have to refund the money he had lost. Mr K didnt agree 
with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Santander should be required to refund the money Mr K has 
lost. Ill explain why below.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. But there are certain 
activities banks are expected to carry out to try to protect their customers from falling victim 
to scams, and certain protections in place for customers who do fall victim to scams.
In order to be satisfied that Mr K has been the victim of a scam, I must be satisfied that the 
investment company he was dealing with set out from the beginning with the intent to 
defraud him. But I dont think the evidence suggests that is the case here.
The investment company was listed on Companies House for a significant amount of time 
before Mr K was contacted about the investment opportunity, and it filed annual returns and 
accounts  which I wouldnt necessarily expect of a scam company. The company also 
provided Mr K with a number of certificates for his individual investments, terms and 
conditions, brochures and other documents, which all look relatively professional. And the 
director of the company continued communicating with Mr K several years after his last 
payments, which I also wouldnt expect a scammer to do.
Mr K also received several payments from the investment company, which it said were the 
returns on his investments. And I wouldnt expect a scammer to send money back to their 
victim, particularly several times, for significant amounts of money and several months after 
their last payment into the scam.
Weve also received information from the investment companys bank. And this shows the 
bank had no concerns about the company or the use of the account around the time of the 
payments Mr K made. And the companys account statements show the sort of activity Id 
expect of a legitimate company, with payments out to what appear to be creditors and 
business expenses and payments into the account remaining there for some time rather 
than being immediately transferred elsewhere.
I appreciate how Mr K feels about this case. And some of the evidence he has provided 
could suggest he has been the victim of a scam. But, based on the evidence I have, I think 
its more likely this was a legitimate investment that ultimately went wrong. I dont think the 
investment company set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud Mr K, or that he 
has been the victim of a scam here.
I recognise that my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr K. And my decision 
shouldnt be read as saying I think he did anything wrong or that he hasnt been treated 
poorly by the investment company. But as I dont think this was a scam, the protections in 
place for victims of scam dont apply here. And so I dont think it would be fair to hold 
Santander responsible or require it to refund the money Mr K lost.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman