DRN-3989850
The complaint
Mr M complains that Oplo PL Ltd misled him about the time it would take for a loan to be 
paid to him and the amount that he received.
What happened
In November 2022, Mr M applied for a loan with Oplo. He was given the impression that the 
application would be reviewed that day and deposited into his account by the evening. He 
also finished the application believing that the loan was for £2,000 and would be added to 
the balance of an existing loan he has with Oplo.
The loan wasnt paid to Mr M that evening though. Instead, it was paid to Mr M the next day 
and the loan was a separate loan used to repay the existing loan, which meant the amount 
paid to Mr M was different to the £2,000 he expected. Mr M complained to Oplo as this 
wasnt what he expected.
Oplo explained that the loan was for £2,000 and would always have been used to settle the 
previous loan Mr M had, as its Oplos policy for a customer to only have one loan at a time. 
It says that this was discussed with Mr M during an application call and he agreed to this. 
Oplo then said that it never told Mr M that the loan would definitely be paid on the same day 
he applied for it. It said that during the call, Mr M asked how long it would take Oplo to send 
the relevant documentation for him to sign for the loan, it explained that it would send an 
email with that documentation on the same day, which it did.
Oplo says it told Mr M that it would review the information once it was received and then pay 
out as soon as possible, but the information was received in the afternoon after its cut-off 
point. So it paid the funds the next day, which was the soonest it could do so.
Mr M wasnt happy about this so complained to this service where one of our investigators 
looked into it for him. Our investigator found that Oplo had acted fairly and correctly and so 
didnt think it needed to do any more. Mr M disagreed so the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call when the loan was discussed and agreed. Near the end of the call, 
Mr M asks the Oplo representative how long it would take to send out the documentation for 
the loan. The representative explains that they will do so the same day by email. They 
explained that when they receive the relevant forms, this will be reviewed by Oplo who will 
pay out the same day - if its happy with everything.
Im satisfied that based on this, Oplo didnt ever say that Mr M would definitely be receiving 
money the same day as the call. I think Oplo was clear that it needed to review the 
completed information from Mr M and that it would only pay out once the decision had been 
made. That ended up being the next day, but Im satisfied that Oplo acted fairly in 
processing this as it did. It may be that Mr M came away from the call with the impression 
that he was going to get the money on that day, but thats not something I think itd be fair to 
say that Oplo was responsible for.
The Oplo representative also confirmed the amounts that would be paid to Mr M and how 
that would affect his other loan. They explained how the amounts would be calculated based 
on an existing loan Mr M held with Oplo, which this new loan would be used to repay. This 
was then supported by the documentation Oplo sent to Mr M. So I think Oplo was clear 
about what would be paid to Mr M. He clearly found it confusing when the loan was paid to 
him the following day and wasnt for the exact amount he was expecting. But I think Oplo 
had reasonably explained why that was.
Given the above, I see no basis on which I can say that Oplo has acted unfairly and 
unreasonably here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman