DRN-3517200
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined to settle his claim for theft of his 
sons personal items without proof of ownership.
Mr and Mrs C have home insurance with AXA, which provides cover for possessions away 
from the home. The policy is in joint names but, for ease, Ill refer simply to Mr C throughout 
my decision. Ill refer to Mr Cs son as Mr A.
What happened
While on holiday, Mr As premium brand watch and bag were stolen. He reported the theft to 
the local police and Mr C made a claim under his home insurance policy.
AXA asked for proof of purchase or ownership to substantiate the claim, so Mr C provided a 
letter from his family confirming the watch was a gift to Mr A. He also provided a photo of Mr 
A wearing the watch and using the bag. However, AXA couldnt identify the watch in the 
photo. In the absence of clear evidence that Mr A owned the watch and bag, AXA refused to 
settle the claim.
Mr C complained and again looked for evidence of ownership. In the absence of any 
evidence, he invited AXA to visit his home to see that the stolen items matched his standard 
of living and that none of his belongings were fake. AXA didnt accept the offer and repeated 
its decision to decline the claim.
Our investigator didnt think AXA had done anything wrong. She said AXA was entitled to 
ask Mr C to substantiate the claim in line with the terms of the policy. But Mr C didnt think 
the terms of the policy specifically asked for evidence of items valued under £10,000, so he 
wasnt required to notify AXA of them. 
As Mr C remained unhappy with the investigators recommendations, the complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this will be disappointing for Mr C, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill 
explain why.
AXA refused to settle because it didnt think Mr C had substantiated his claim.
The policy says:
To help prove your claim we may require you to provide original purchase receipts, 
invoices, bank or credit card statements, instruction booklets.
Based on the policy, Im satisfied it was fair for AXA to ask for proof of ownership.
Ive looked at the evidence Mr C provided to support his claim, which included photos and a 
letter from his family confirming that the watch was gifted to Mr A. While I have no reason to 
doubt Mr Cs claim that the watch in the photo was genuine, AXA is entitled, under the 
policy, to ask for proof. In the absence of any evidence, Mr C hasnt proved he had a valid 
claim.
Because the policy says AXA will ask for evidence of ownership for items over £10,000, Mr 
C doesnt think he should need to provide evidence for the watch, valued just under that 
figure. I understand the point hes making: but stating it will ask for evidence over a certain 
value doesnt mean AXA wont ask for evidence under that value. And as Ive already said, 
the policy allows AXA to ask for evidence to prove the claim. Im satisfied thats fair.
In summary, I dont think anyone is saying that Mr Cs claim wasnt genuine. The simple fact 
is, the onus was on him to prove his claim, and I cant fairly say that he has provided the 
evidence AXA asked for in line with the policy. Therefore, I wont be asking AXA to settle the 
claim.
Should Mr C go on to find any evidence to support his claim, Id expect AXA to consider the 
claim again in light of that.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman