DRN-2775764
The complaint
Mr H, through his professional representative, says Vale Independent Financial Advisers 
Limited (Vale IFA) has not adequately compensated him for the unsuitable advice it gave 
him to transfer from his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS). Vale IFA has made an offer 
to Mr H, but the offer did not include costs for ongoing advice, which Mr Hs representatives 
say it should.
 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 19 March 2021 in which I set out the background to the 
complaint and my provisional findings. Following my provisional decision both parties 
accepted what Id said. Although Vale IFA did have some questions and made some further 
points which our investigator responded to on my behalf, but broadly an acceptance was 
reached.
I understand Vale IFA have already started proceedings with regards to calculating the 
redress due and so this decision is issued with the purpose of confirming what has been 
agreed.
As there is little further for me to add following the provisional decision, I will set out below a 
copy of the provisional decisions findings which forms part of this decision:
The circumstances here are well-known to both parties and are not in dispute, so I will 
provide only a summary below. 
In August 2017 Mr H was advised by Vale IFA to transfer out of his Occupational 
Pension Scheme (OPS) with British Steel (the British Steel Pensions Scheme, or 
BSPS) and into a Personal Pension with a provider.
It was agreed then that Mr H would pay Vale IFA a regular ongoing advice charge of 
0.50% per annum of the value of his plan.
In May 2019, Mr Hs representative raised a complaint with Vale IFA about the advice 
received to transfer out of the OPS.
In September 2019 Vale IFA stopped the ongoing advice charge applicable to Mr Hs 
plan.
Around the same time (September 2019), Vale IFA instructed a third party actuarial firm 
to carry out a loss calculation in line with the regulatory guidance regarding Mr Hs 
transfer.
In October 2019, Vale IFA sent a letter to Mr H upholding the complaint. It said the 
calculation for compensation had been carried out in line with the regulators guidance. 
The loss calculation came to just short of £10,000 and it also offered £350 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
In early 2020, Mr H started a new agreement with a different adviser. Mr H agreed to an 
ongoing adviser charge of 0.85% with his new adviser.  Mr Hs new adviser works with 
his representatives acting on behalf of those transferred out of the BSPS.
In January 2020 Mr Hs representatives wrote to Vale IFA to say it should have included 
the ongoing adviser charge in its offer as required in the regulators guidance FG17/9. 
And would it consider amending the calculation to include the 0.85% charge Mr H was 
now paying. It also said it felt the distress and inconvenience award should be higher.
Vale IFA responded to say it wasnt prepared to calculate the offer using Mr Hs new 
advisers charge, and it didnt think this service would require it to do so. It said it would 
be prepared to pay for a new calculation though to bring it up to date.
A complaint was then referred to this service and our investigator considered the issue but a 
resolution couldnt be agreed.
Mr Hs representatives asked for an ombudsmans decision and stated their case, which 
Ive summarised below:
oVale IFA didnt include the costs of Mr Hs ongoing adviser charges in their 
loss calculations. It is firmly of the view that this approach is not in line with FCA 
guidance.
oIf Vale IFA hadnt provided Mr H with unsuitable advice to transfer out of the 
BSPS, he wouldnt have needed a financial adviser to help him manage his pension 
and therefore wouldnt have needed to incur ongoing adviser charges.
oVale IFA ended their agreement to provide ongoing advice to Mr H in 
connection with his personal pension immediately prior to issuing their 
compensation calculation. Its unclear whether Vale IFA felt that doing so would 
enable them to omit ongoing adviser charges from their calculations, but if they did, 
this would clearly not be within the spirit of the guidance.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What is it I have to decide?
Both parties principally agree on the outcome of the complaint and that the correct regulatory 
guidance has been used, FG17/9, in calculating redress. This also mirrors our approach to 
such matters. So, I dont need to discuss the transfer suitability or the correct method of 
redress here.
The only point of dispute is the application of the guidance in carrying out the loss 
calculation.
I have to decide ultimately whether the offer Vale IFA has made is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. The dispute has already been narrowed down to whether a regular adviser 
charge shouldve been included in the calculation. So Ill need to decide whether a regular 
adviser charge shouldve been applied and, if so, at what level.
Should regular adviser charges have been included in this loss calculation.The relevant FCA guidance FG17/9, says about charges:
The personal pension charges, where known, should be deducted from the pre- 
retirement discount rate up to a maximum of 0.75% per year. Where the charges 
are not known or are structured differently, the calculation should result in a figure 
which is no greater than a deduction of 0.75% per year from the pre-retirement 
discount rate for personal pension charges. This deduction is based on product 
charges only and any regular adviser charges on top of this should be 
deducted separately*
*[my emphasis]
Whilst the guidance is not specific as to a rate of adviser charges, its clear that in carrying 
out the loss calculation any regular adviser charges should be taken into account.
Its also clear from the guidance that the overall objective of the redress is to put a 
customer back into the position they wouldve been had the error not occurred. As stated 
in FG17/9:
Where a firm or adviser has failed to give compliant and proper advice, or has 
committed some other breach of the relevant requirements, the basic objective of 
redress is to put the customer, so far as possible, into the position they would have 
been in if the non-compliant or unsuitable advice had not been given or the breach 
had not occurred. While each case should be assessed individually, in many cases 
this advice is likely to have resulted in the complainant transferring accrued benefits 
from a DB pension scheme to a personal pension scheme. This is what underpins 
the standard approach to redress.
Mr H cannot be put back into his OPS and, therefore, back into the exact position he was 
in before. However, in transferring his pension from the OPS, following Vale IFAs advice 
he now has an investment for which regular advice is often required.  Had the transfer out 
of the OPS not occurred, Mr H wouldnt be paying these fees.
Vale IFA stopped its regular adviser charges in September, before the calculation was 
carried out in October. If Mr H hadnt complained and continued his relationship with Vale 
IFA as his adviser, I very much doubt it would have provided its ongoing service (which it 
felt at the time Mr H required) for free. And had Vale IFA not removed its charges prior to 
calculation, I think the actuarial firm wouldve included this in its loss calculation. Mr H was, 
and is, paying for a regular advice service. So I dont think its fair or reasonable that the 
calculation hasnt accounted for regular adviser fees. 
I think Vale IFA and the actuarial firm believed they were doing the calculation correctly 
and acted in good faith. But to put things right here, or to put Mr H back into as close a 
position as he wouldve been, I think these extra costs should be included. And as outlined 
above  FG17/9  Vale IFAs regulators guidance agrees.
So to put things right, Vale IFA should carry out a new loss calculation but this time 
including regular adviser charges. 
What figure should the regular adviser charge be set at?
Vale IFA has explained that it doesnt think it should be paying for choices Mr H has made 
when instructing a new adviser. I can understand its point of view. Commonly fees and 
choices made after a relationship has ended, isnt the responsibility of the previous firm. I 
do think Vale IFA reached its view of events in good faith. But in doing so it over-looked the key issue that in carrying out a review fairly and in line with the regulators guidance it 
should have accounted for regular adviser charges, for which Mr H will be liable because 
of its advice. In not accounting for regular adviser charges, its led to the position at hand 
now, where a new calculation is required and Mr H is now with an adviser with higher 
charges. 
FG17/9 isnt specific in relation to adviser charges like it is for product charges, which are 
set at no greater than 0.75% regardless of the product. So, as is my remit, I have 
considered what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case  following my 
review of FG17/9 and the legal and regulatory framework more generally.
Based on my experience, I think its fair to say ongoing advisory charges tend to fall 
somewhere between 0.5% and 1%. But this obviously depends on the firm, the service 
provided, and the complexity of the individuals circumstances and products invested 
within.
Vale IFA has questioned the relationship between Mr Hs representative and his new IFA, 
saying its well established that theyre working together. Vale IFA says it has concerns the 
new adviser is charging an over-inflated fee to drive up redress  redress for which itll be 
responsible if the complaint is upheld.
When with Vale IFA, Mr H was invested in a Personal Pension arrangement with a product 
provider. And it appears whilst a transfer of product provider has occurred since, Mr H isnt 
invested in anything more complex now. Whilst I appreciate Vale IFAs point about the 
difference in charges applied for advising on these products, Mr H was entitled to seek 
new representation. And its understandable that he would choose to do so, as he felt hed 
been given unsuitable advice by Vale IFA. 
So, I dont think its unreasonable that he is asking for compensation in line with what he is 
paying now (that is, compensation taking account of the ongoing charges he is now 
paying) considering the offer made was, in my view, incomplete and didnt fully redress him 
in line with what the FG17/9 guidance required. And whilst this fee is higher than what he 
paid before, Ive got no corroborating evidence to say this decision was made for any other 
purpose than seeking best advice.
So, in conclusion, having reviewed all the evidence and considered FG17/9, I am satisfied 
that regular adviser charges should form part of the redress calculation. As to the rate of 
charges applied to that calculation, for the reasons explained above, I have concluded that 
the new rate which Mr H is paying, so  0.85%, should be used for the regular adviser 
charges in the updated loss calculation. 
Award for distress and inconvenience caused
Vale IFA has offered £350 to Mr H to account for any distress and inconvenience the 
transfer has caused him. Mr Hs representatives have suggested it should offer more but I 
think £350 seems broadly fair in the circumstances. Whilst I dont doubt this whole situation 
will have caused Mr H upset, Vale IFA acknowledged the advice was unsuitable and offered 
compensation. Any distress and inconvenience since, has been around the quantum of 
redress. Whilst I appreciate this may have been distressing, I think £350 is fair in the 
circumstances.
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following the responses to my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions made within it. Since the decision, FG17/9 has been updated so Ill set out the 
putting things right section afresh. And Ill address a couple of points raised by Vale IFA.
Vale IFA clarified the reason it stopped the ongoing charge when it did. Its told us that 
following the customer representatives complaint, it was no longer permitted to contact the 
customer. And therefore it couldnt meet the terms of the service agreement it had with Mr H, 
so this is why the ongoing charge was stopped. I accept this explanation but it doesnt affect 
the merits of the complaint. The complaint was upheld due to the absence of ongoing 
charges in the loss calculation, regardless of why they were stopped by Vale IFA.
Vale IFA has also commented it seems unfair that ultimately it is responsible for the period of 
time after Mr H transferred to a new IFA and product. As this period has increased the loss 
when compared with the investment strategy it had for Mr H. Whilst I can understand why 
Vale IFA might be frustrated with this, it was its advice to transfer Mr H out of the BSPS that 
has given need for the loss calculation. And because its loss calculation didnt include 
ongoing costs, the need for a new calculation has arisen. FG17/9 is silent on this matter, in 
that it doesnt say a loss calculation should be capped at the date of subsequent transfers. 
As Mr H has since transferred to a similar arrangement with similar risk to the one Vale IFA 
recommended, I can see no reason to say the loss should be capped on transfer.
For the reasons explained here and in my provisional decision (set out above), my decision 
remains the same and Vale IFA should put things right as below. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr H, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. Vale IFA must therefore undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate 
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Hs acceptance of the decision.
Vale IFA may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Hs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Hs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr H within 90 days of the date 
Vale IFA receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Vale 
IFA to pay Mr H.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
The regular adviser charge in the above calculation should be set at 0.85%.
Vale IFA should also pay £350 to Mr H in respect of any distress and inconvenience 
caused.  
My final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint about Vale Independent Financial Advisers Limited and direct it to 
carry out a new loss calculation in line with what Ive set out above including regular adviser 
charges. This should be set at the rate Mr H is currently paying, 0.85%. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman