DRN-3747282
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint consists of two parts. Firstly, Mr M complains that Novaloans Ltd trading as 
cash4unow (Novaloans) gave him a loan which he couldnt afford to repay. 
Secondly, Mr M is unhappy with the service he received from Novaloans in January 2022 
when he asked for a refund of a payment which had been made. He also says he didnt 
receive a response to an email he sent at the end of January 2022. 
What happened
Mr M took one loan from Novaloans, he borrowed £600 on 14 October 2021. Mr M was due 
to make a total of six-monthly repayments. Five repayments between October 2021 and 
February 2022 of £183.06, and Mr Ms final payment was due in March 2022 which was 
£182.77. Had Mr M run the loan to term, he was due to pay Novaloans a total of £1,098.07.
Novaloans wrote off the outstanding balance due on the loan in February 2022.  
The complaint concerning the service Mr M received was made first and dealt with first. 
Novaloans issued what appears to be two final response letters (FRL) on this matter. The 
second one, dated 15 March 2022 appeared to be in response to a follow up letter or email 
Mr M had sent on 13 February 2022 after a final response letter of 7 February 2022. A copy 
of the 7 February 2022 FRL hasnt been provided. 
The March 2022 FRL outlined and dealt with Mr Ms concerns  these concerns are mirrored 
in the complaint form and letter of complaint Mr M submitted to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
Novaloans concluded in the March 2022 FRL:
Taking the above into consideration, we are sorry that the level of service that you 
experienced fell short of your expectations. We have identified failings in our 
processes and can assure you that appropriate feedback and training has been given 
to the agents. We will also look to improve our processes in the future to ensure that 
this situation does not reoccur.
Novaloans explained in the FRL that to put things right, it had closed the loan which was 
outstanding, which resulted in Mr M not having to pay any interest. It also removed the loan 
from his credit file. In addition, it also offered a further £25 compensation  Mr M told us he 
didnt accept the compensation offer.
 
Mr M then made a separate complaint to Novaloans on 20 March 2022. This complaint was 
concerned with the affordability of the loan that he was provided. Novaloans issued a FRL 
dated 22 April 2022 and it didnt uphold his complaint. Novaloans concluded:
We are unable to agree that this loan was unaffordable nor that it was funded to you 
irresponsibly.  
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. He concluded Novaloans made a 
reasonable decision to lend the loan based on the information it gathered at the time. So, he 
didnt uphold the complaint about the affordability part of his complaint. 
In relation to the service Mr M had received the adjudicator could see Novaloans had 
already upheld this aspect of the complaint. But he went onto explain, that based on what he 
could see Mr M had only repaid to Novaloans the capital he had borrowed and so hadnt 
really paid any interest towards the loan. In the adjudicators view waiving the interest was 
more than he wouldve recommended. 
Novaloans didnt respond to or acknowledge the adjudicators assessment.
 
Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. In summary, he was unhappy the service 
element of his complaint which hadnt been addressed and he reconfirmed he wouldnt 
accept the goodwill payment of £25. 
The adjudicator responded to Mr Ms comments but didnt think that what Mr M had said 
changed his view about the complaint. 
Mr M felt the response from the adjudicator didnt clarify things. He wanted a final decision 
and a full explanation about the service element of the complaint. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Novaloans had to assess the lending to check if Mr M could afford to pay back the amount 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. Novaloans checks could have taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ms 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Novaloans should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors include:
Mr M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr M.Novaloans was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay the loan  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr M was able to repay 
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ms complaint.
I can see, based on the information that Mr M has provided that he did raise two separate 
complaints and received at least two FRLs about the two issues  the service and the 
unaffordable lending. However, these cases are intrinsically linked. I say this because the 
redress Novaloans has offered (and paid) for the service failings would have to be 
reconsidered if it was decided the complaint about unaffordable lending was to be upheld. 
Therefore, Im issuing one decision that covers both complaints. 
I will first deal with the unaffordable lending complaint and secondly, the service that Mr M 
received.  
Unaffordable lending 
Before the loan was approved, Novaloans took details of Mr Ms income and expenditure. 
Novaloans recorded Mr Ms income as being £2,000 per month with monthly outgoings of 
£810. Novaloans was therefore aware that he had enough monthly disposable income in 
which to make a monthly repayment of no more than £183.06.
Novaloans may well have reasonably concluded that based solely on the income and 
expenditure information that Mr M would be able to afford the contractual loan payments. 
Before this loan was approved, Novaloans also carried out a credit check and a summary of 
its results were included in the FRL issued in April 2022. 
It is worth saying here that although Novaloans carried out a credit search there isnt a 
regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. Therefore, its entirely 
possible that the information Novaloans received may not entirely reflect the information 
Mr M may be able to view in his own credit report. There could be for a number of reasons 
for this, such as Novaloans only asking for certain pieces of information. But what Novaloans 
cant do is carry out a credit search and then not react to the information it received  if 
necessary.  
Having reviewed the results, I cant see anything which wouldve led Novaloans to have 
either carried out further checks or to have led it to decline Mr Ms application for lending. I 
say this because Novaloans was aware of four outstanding credit accounts  but these 
couldve been bank accounts, credit cards or store cards to name a few. This isnt a 
significantly high enough number to have given Novaloans cause for concern. 
In addition, it knew that Mr M hadnt used any short-term lending accounts, hadnt defaulted 
on any accounts or had any accounts enter delinquency within the preceding 12 months 
before this loan.There also wasnt anything else in the checks that Novaloans carried out before this loan 
which indicated the loan was likely to be unaffordable or that Mr M was having wider 
financial difficulties. It also hadnt yet reached the stage where I think Novaloans needed to 
have verified the information Mr M had provided it.
Given it was early on in the lending relationship and the modest sum lent, I think it was 
reasonable for Novaloans to have relied on the information Mr M provided along with the 
credit check results which show he had sufficient disposable income to afford the 
repayments he was committed to making. 
So, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about the loan  which means Novaloans doesnt 
have to take any further action in relation to this. 
The service received from Novaloans
It is worth saying here, that in the FRL issued by Novaloans in March 2022, it acknowledges 
that there were service failings and that something went wrong  Ive quoted the relevant 
section of the FRL at the start of the decision. 
So, I dont think I need to revisit every point Mr M raised in relation to the service and or 
whether Novaloans had made a mistake. This is because Novaloans already accepts this. 
But for completeness, Ive summarised below the main concerns Mr M had in relation to the 
service. 
In summary, Mr M was unhappy with the following accepts of the service he was subject to 
in January 2022. 
Mr M contacted Novaloans on 13 January 2022, he spoke to a manager about a 
refund of a payment. Mr M says at this point the payment couldnt be refunded 
because it was the contractual amount that was due. The call ended with the 
manager agreeing someone more senior would call the following day. 
This call back wasnt received until 17 January 2022  at this point there was no 
mention of the previous request to call on 14 January 2022 or an apology for the late 
call. It was also reiterated that as the payment was contractual no refund would be 
due. Even though Mr M was asking for help after a bereavement. 
Mr M then approached Novaloans on 20 January 2022 to ask for his payment due on 
31 January 2022 to be pushed back to give some breathing space given the current 
difficult situation Mr M found himself in. Mr M says the call was unpleasant and he 
wasnt treated with empathy or understanding. 
Mr M eventually agreed to make a reduced payment on 31 January 2022, however, 
in order to make the payment Mr M needed the payment details, these were asked 
for in an email.
Following Mr M making the payment on 31 January 2022 he emailed to ask for an 
acknowledgment that a payment had been made. He was told that he would hear 
within 5 working days  no response was received. 
As Ive said above, Novaloans investigated the service issues outlined above and accepted 
that it failed to provide the service Mr M was expecting. Given this, I dont need to make any 
further finding about whether there were service failings because Novaloans accepts there 
was. In recognition of what happened, it also cleared his loan balance and removed the loan 
from his credit file. 
What I am being asked to consider is the circumstances around these service failings and 
whether Novaloans has done enough to put things right for Mr M. In effect, what Novaloans has done here, is in lieu of paying an award of compensation for 
what happened, it took it upon itself to write off the outstanding balance of the loan. A 
balance that was legitimately owed and payments that wouldve needed to have been made 
by Mr M  had Novaloans not taken the action that it did. 
As far as I can see, Novaloans wrote off a significant amount of what Mr M was still due to 
pay under the terms of the agreement. Although, the March 2022 FRL says £132 was 
returned to Mr M on 10 February 2022, there is nothing to suggest this money wasnt due to 
be paid by him and this payment isnt reflected in the statement of account provided. But, by 
returning it  it was again money that Mr M was due to pay to Novaloans.  
It seems, taking into account the final response letter and the statement of account provided 
by Novaloans that Mr M (at a minimum) only repaid the capital amount he borrowed  rather 
than the capital plus the interest that as also due to be paid. 
This means, that in total, Mr M has in effect had an interest write-off which the credit 
agreement says was £498.07  this is a significant financial award. Given the service 
failings, I consider this amount of write-off to be more than fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Had no award been made in this case by Novaloans, I wouldve had to consider what 
happened and the impact on Mr M. But, thinking about the purpose of awards the 
Financial Ombudsman makes - which are not to fine or punish the lender for what happened. 
As well as thinking about what Novaloans knew at the time, it is unlikely Id have 
recommended a compensation award as high as what Novaloans has already actioned.   
In addition, it also removed the loan from Mr Ms credit file, which again, is more than I would 
have asked it to have done, because I wouldve considered a purely monetary award for the 
service failings.  
Therefore, as I think what Novaloans has already actioned is more than fair and reasonable 
I wont be asking it to pay anything further. But I do accept that the service fell below the 
standard that Mr M was expecting and the service that Novaloans says it wishes to provide. 
Novaloans has confirmed to the Financial Ombudsman Service the goodwill payment of £25 
is still available to Mr M if he wishes to accept it. Given what else it has already paid and 
done, I consider this additional payment to be more than fair and reasonable. Mr M should 
contact Novaloans directly if he now wishes to accept this. 
I appreciate that Mr M will be disappointed by the decision that I have reached but I hope he 
understands why given what has happened and thinking about everything Novaloans has 
done, why I think what it has already done is more than fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Novaloans Ltd trading as cash4unow doesnt need to do 
anything else to settle the complaints. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Robert WalkerOmbudsman