DRN-1635737
The complaint
Mr L complains about the level of service provided by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
under the breakdown cover component of his commercial motor insurance policy. He wants 
his costs refunded and compensation for his trouble and upset. 
What happened
Mr Ls van broke down on a motorway and he called Admiral for assistance. In the 
meantime, emergency services made a temporary repair and Mr L drove to a place of safety. 
Recovery services then attended and said a technician was on his way. Mr L said both the 
emergency services and the recovery operator said the repair would be simple and quick. 
But the technician didnt attend, and Mr L was asked if he wanted recovery. He agreed to be 
transported to his home, at the cost of £408. He had to pay for his cargo to be sent to its 
destination, at the cost of £224.33. Mr L said his garage repaired the van quickly and didnt 
even charge him. 
Mr L was unhappy that Admiral hadnt attempted a roadside repair, that hed incurred 
unnecessary costs, and that it had delayed responding to his complaint. Admiral offered Mr L 
£50 compensation for the misdiagnosis and £100 for delaying his complaint. But Mr L 
remained unhappy. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought, on balance, 
that the van could have been repaired at the roadside, but no attempt had been made. He 
thought Admiral should refund Mr L for the recovery costs and shipment charge, with 
interest. But he thought its offer of compensation was fair and reasonable. 
Admiral replied that its technician thought the van needs to be repaired in a garage. So it 
offered to pay Mr L the cost of recovery to a local garage and a taxi home, £250. But Mr L 
was unhappy with that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr L feels frustrated that what he described as a simple repair couldnt be 
made at the roadside so that he could continue with his delivery. Instead, he paid for 
recovery home rather than to a local garage, and then had to pay to courier his cargo 
onwards. This has left him out of pocket.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. I can see that the Breakdown 
Cover provides the following under Roadside Repair:
You are covered for up to one hour of the recovery operators time at the roadside to repair 
your vehicle. The recovery operator will assess initially whether the vehicle can be safely 
repaired within this time: if it cannot, the vehicle will be recovered If at any stage it becomes 
apparent the vehicle will not be repaired within the hour entitlement, the recovery operator 
may provide you with the option of paying for additional labour costs to complete the repair 
You must immediately pay for any additional labour charges beyond the hour entitlement or 
alternatively inform the rescue controller of where you would like your vehicle to be 
recovered.
Mr Ls van was removed to a place of safety by the emergency services. So I think it was for 
the recovery operator to then decide whether the van could be repaired within one hour. A 
recovery driver, who wasnt an engineer, had attended and then left, saying that a technician 
was on his way. But the technician decided, without seeing the van, that it needed a ramp to 
carry out the repair and so the van would have to be recovered to a garage. 
Mr L said the emergency services and the recovery driver said the van needed only a quick 
repair. He said the site of the fault was on top of the engine, so a ramp wasnt needed. He 
also said his own garage carried out the repair in a few minutes. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision about repairs.
I havent seen that Admiral had any engineering evidence to consider as its technician didnt 
attend the scene. So I think Admiral didnt provide the benefit of an hours roadside 
assistance that Mr Ls policy entitled him to. And I think Admiral hasnt justified its decision 
not to make roadside repairs. 
But I have seen that Mr L provided testimony at the time of the views of the emergency 
services and recovery operator who did attend the scene. And hes also explained that his 
own garage made the repair in a few minutes. So I think its likely, based on this, that if the 
technician had attended, then the repair could have been completed at the roadside and so 
Mr L would have avoided further costs. 
Admiral did offer Mr L the option of recovery to a local garage and transport home and back 
if the van needed to remain to be repaired. But Mr L opted for recovery home where a local 
garage could repair his van. I can understand why he chose this in order to secure his cargo 
and to avoid travelling time if the van couldnt be repaired immediately. It was late and I think 
Mr L reasonably thought a local repair wouldnt be made that day.  
Admiral offered Mr L £50 compensation for misdiagnosing his vans fault. It also offered him 
£100 compensation for delays in responding to his complaint. I think that was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Admiral later offered Mr L £250 which it said was the cost of local recovery and Mr Ls 
transport home. But I dont think this goes far enough in the circumstances. I think that 
Admirals actions in not handling Mr Ls claim in keeping with the policy terms and conditions 
led to him incurring otherwise avoidable costs. And I think Admiral should compensate Mr L 
for these.
Putting things rightI think Admiral should do the following:
1. Honour its offer to pay Mr L £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its level of service, unless it has already done so. 
2. I think Admiral should also refund Mr L the recovery costs he paid (£408) and the costs 
of the courier for his cargo (£224.33), upon provision of reasonable evidence of these. 
3. And, as Mr L has been without his money for some time, I think Admiral should 
reasonably add interest to this amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Admiral to take off tax from this interest. Admiral must 
give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman