DRN-1040092
 
complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller in my decision.
Mrs C says FICL mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store account in 1995.
The policy cost was likely to be no more than £1.00 per £100 Mrs C owed on her store card. 
The PPI would have paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mrs C 
couldnt work because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate Mrs C feels very strongly about this 
matter and therefore my decision is likely to be disappointing for her. Ill explain the reasons 
why Ive reached this outcome.
FICL had to make it clear to Mrs C that the policy was optional and get her consent before 
PPI could be applied to the account. Mrs C says she was not told about the PPI during the 
sale and, when she saw the charges on her statements, she assumed it was compulsory.
Ive been given a copy of the application form which was completed at the time and I can 
see that there is a section for PPI. In this section there are boxes to tick to accept or decline 
to take out the cover. On Mrs Cs form the yes box has been ticked. Mrs C has signed the 
overall application which suggests she agreed with everything that had been entered. 
 
 
Mrs C has commented that the box may have been ticked after she signed the form. But as 
Ive already mentioned there were two boxes to select, one of which gave her the option to 
decline the cover. If Mrs C didnt want to take out the cover I would have expected her to have ticked the no box. As she was making an application for financial credit I think Mrs C 
would have read through the form before she signed it. And if the yes box had been ticked, 
or the no box hadnt been selected, I think Mrs C would have questioned this at the time.
So, based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely FICL made it clear the policy was 
optional and Mrs C chose to take it out, knowing she could refuse it if she didnt want it - 
even if that is not her recollection now.
From looking at the paperwork supplied, I dont think FICL recommended the policy to 
Mrs C. So it didnt have to check if the policy was right for her. But FICL did need to make 
sure it gave Mrs C clear enough information about the policy to enable her to decide for 
herself if she should take the policy.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But even if FICL had given her better or clearer information, I dont think it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have taken out the policy. I say this because Mrs C 
was eligible for the policy and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having unusual working arrangements or suffering from a medical condition of which 
she was already aware.
And I think it could have provided a useful benefit to her. Mrs C has told us she would only 
receive statutory sick pay if she was unable to work due to accident or sickness but this 
policy would have paid in addition to her statutory sick pay entitlement. And while Ive noted 
she did have some savings, having this policy would have enabled her to protect those funds 
for another purpose or use them to cover other essential living expenses.
So, overall, when taking everything into consideration, I dont think Mrs C has lost out as a 
result of anything that FICL may have done wrong.
Ive thought about everything Mrs C has said, including the points raised in her 
correspondence more recently with the adjudicator. But these points dont change my 
decision. Where I havent commented on a specific complaint point raised by Mrs C its not 
because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order 
to reach what I think is the right outcome for the complaint as a whole.
my final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman