DRN-1336427
 
The complaint
Mrs P complains that she hasnt been paid any interest on her classic plus account she 
holds with TSB Bank plc.
What happened
 In June 2017, Mrs P upgraded her account from a classic account to a classic plus 
account. She did so believing shed receive credit interest in the new account. Since then 
Mrs P has noticed shed not receiving any interest and complained to TSB.
TSB looked into her complaint and said she didnt qualify for interest as she wasnt 
registered for paperless correspondence  one of the criteria necessary and included in the 
terms and conditions for the account. Mrs P said she was never told she needed to swap to 
paperless correspondence and asked for the interest to be backdated. TSB didnt agree and 
said the terms and conditions were given to Mrs P when she made the switch. But as a 
gesture of goodwill, they agreed to pay Mrs P £45.24 representing one years interest, and a 
further pound for phone costs. TSB also said it noted Mrs P was still not registered for 
paperless correspondence. They said she could do so through online banking as it wasnt 
something the branch could do for her. 
Mrs P was unhappy with TSBs response so referred her complaint to us and one of our 
investigators looked into it. He said the terms and conditions of the account were clear and 
they would have been given to Mrs P when she made the switch. Hed seen evidence which 
showed Mrs P wasnt registered for paperless correspondence, so she didnt qualify to 
receive interest. He felt TSBs offer to pay her one years worth of interest and cover her 
phone costs was fair and reasonable.
TSB accepted our investigators opinion, but Mrs P didnt. As there was no agreement the 
complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The classic plus account pays interest on balances up to £1,500 provided the account holder 
is registered for internet banking, paperless statements and paperless correspondence, and 
pay in a minimum of £500 per month. They go on to say that if you dont do this every 
month, we wont pay you credit interest for that month. 
Where there is a dispute about what happened at the time, I must decide a complaint on the 
balance or probabilities  that is what I think is most likely to have happened based on the 
evidence provided. 
Mrs P has said she wasnt told of the need to switch to paperless correspondence. Clearly, 
Im not able to say for sure whether she was or wasnt. But TSB have provided a copy of notes made at the time which say the terms and conditions were discussed, and it is their 
standard process to provide a welcome pack to customers when they upgrade their account. 
The weight of evidence in this case supports the banks position that Mrs P would have been 
given the terms and conditions. That is not to say that I dont believe what Mrs P says, 
simply that I dont have enough evidence to say that her version of events is more likely that 
TSBs.  
In their response to Mrs Ps complaint, TSB offered to pay Mrs P one years interest - £45.24 
 as a gesture of goodwill. They also paid her £1 to cover her phone costs in raising the 
matter with them. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman