DRN-4404198
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that his claim has been declined due to a pre-existing condition with his 
dog. Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CGI) are providing the pet 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G made a claim on his policy when his dog had two cists removed. 
CGI decided to decline the claim. It said, had we been aware of the history at the time of 
taking out your policy, we would have imposed the following exclusion: Excludes cover on all 
claims with respect to Growths, Tumours, Cancers and Associated Conditions. In CGIs 
final response, it added there would be no cover for any condition which was pre-existing or 
had shown clinical signs of existence in any form prior to the policy inception.
Mr G has spoken to several people whove advised the claim shouldve been paid, so he 
thought CGIs decision was unfair.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. She didnt think there was any indication 
that Mr G wouldve been aware his dog had an illness which needed treating when he took 
out the policy. Therefore, she didnt think it was fair of CGI to claim the treatment was for a 
pre-existing condition. CGI disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive checked the policy and it confirms pre-existing conditions arent covered. Pre-existing 
condition is defined in the policy as any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or 
Associated Condition which has happened or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms of 
existing in any form before the Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period.
Therefore, if there was a pre-existing condition, then Id say CGI had been fair to decline the 
claim. However, I dont think CGI has proven the condition was pre-existing, I think a doubt 
remains. Ill explain why.
There was a visit to the vets in July 2019, where the vet suspected the mass to be a wart or 
skin tag. There seems some doubt in the conclusion. I can see the dogs medical records 
also shows a lump was identified under the skin in January 2022, however, a month later the 
vet reported the lump had gone. I appreciate CGI have said the vet may have missed the 
lump as the dog had long hair. Its possible, but I have no evidence to say this is what 
happened. All I can say is that the medical history of this dog is unclear. 
The first visit, the diagnosis was inconclusive, then a lump was spotted but soon 
disappeared. I dont think CGI can say for certain there was a pre-existing condition, so I 
dont think it has been fair in applying an exclusion in this case. I think it was reasonable that 
Mr G thought his dog was symptom free.
Ive also considered whether Mr G made a misrepresentation when taking out the policy. 
CGI said it wouldve added a further exclusion to the policy had it known about the dogs 
medical history. However, for the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think Mr G wouldve 
been aware of a pre-existing condition when he took out the policy, so I dont think he did 
misrepresent the facts when taking it out.
In summary, I dont think CGI has been fair to apply the exclusion in this case. Therefore, I 
think it should settle the claim. As Mr G has been without this money, CGI should add 8% 
simple interest per annum (from the date of the claim to the date the settlement is paid).
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Casualty & General Insurance 
Company (Europe) Ltd:
Settle the claim and add 8% simple interest* per annum (from the date of the claim to 
the date the settlement is paid).
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd 
to take off tax from this interest. CGI must give a certificate showing how much tax its taken 
off it if Mr G asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman