DRN-3126878
The complaint
Mr M complains Santander UK Plc unfairly blocked his access to his personal accounts, and 
later closed them.
What happened
Mr M held a current account and a savings account with Santander. He also acted as a 
director for a limited company that held a Santander business account which was also 
closed. The limited company was granted a bounce back loan through Santander, which 
was later recalled. 
This decision concerns only the personal accounts held in Mr Ms name. The limited 
company for which Mr M was the director is a different eligible complainant to him under the 
rules we must follow. It is a separate legal person, so any decision about the closure of the 
business account and the recall of the bounce back loan must be directed to it. Mr M also no 
longer appears to be the director for the limited company, so he can no longer continue a 
complaint of its behalf.
The investigator who provided their answer to Mr M, covered the background facts of what 
happened in the lead up to his complaint. I find no need to detail those facts in full here, 
although I am fully aware of them. In summary, Santander blocked Mr Ms current account to 
conduct a review. It later decided to close the account, leaving Mr M to repay an outstanding 
overdraft balance.
Our investigator considered Mr Ms complaint and found:
Santander could block Mr Ms accounts. It had important legal and regulatory 
obligations which required it to monitor and investigate activity it found unusual or 
concerning. An attempted payment on Mr Ms current account triggered Santander to 
block Mr Ms access to his personal accounts. This was reasonable.
Santander unblocked Mr Ms personal accounts after he answered its questions. But 
it also asked him for information in relation to the bounce back loan the limited 
company had taken out. He didnt provide that information and Santander decided it 
didnt want to provide him with accounts anymore. 
Mr M said he was too unwell to provide the information Santander wanted at the 
time. If Mr M wanted to provide evidence to show he was too unwell he could, and he 
could also provide the evidence Santander had asked for. The investigator would 
then review that information in light of his complaint.
Santander could decide whether it wanted to close Mr Ms account. This is part of the 
discretion it has as a commercial business. It could also call in the overdraft on his 
current account.
Mr M is unhappy with the outcome the investigator reached. He asked for a final decision 
from an ombudsman, so his complaint has been given to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. My reasons are:
Santander has important legal and regulatory responsibilities which sometimes 
override its general duty to obey its customers mandate. Those responsibilities 
regard protecting customers or other persons from financial harm and preventing 
financial crime. Ive reviewed why it refused Mr Ms payment to a third party, and I 
find it acted reasonably.
Santander may decide to review accounts and ask its customer questions to meet its 
responsibilities. Its common industry practice for a bank to restrict an account or 
accounts during a review. In Mr Ms circumstances Santander wanted to ask him 
about the attempted payment and other activity on his current account. Blocking his 
accounts ensured no further payments could be made until Santander was satisfied 
about what had happened. I find this was reasonable.
Santander unblocked the accounts once Mr M answered its questions. It didnt 
accept it had done anything wrong but offered him £50 as a gesture of goodwill for 
the inconvenience he was caused. I too find Santander wasnt wrong to block the 
accounts. And I dont find it took too long to complete its review.
Santander could decide to end its relationship with Mr M. I have considered its 
reason(s) and I find they fall within that discretion. Mr M had been a customer for 
some time, and the decision to close his accounts was no doubt challenging and 
unpleasant for him. But this isnt a reason to conclude Santander couldnt close his 
accounts or that he should be compensated because of how he felt. He said he was 
too unwell to provide information to Santander. But he has been given an opportunity 
to provide evidence to support this and hasnt.
Santander gave Mr M 60 days notice before his accounts would close. But it also 
blocked the accounts again during the notice period. This put Mr M in a similar 
situation to someone whose accounts had been closed immediately. But I have 
considered the terms applicable to the accounts closure and I find Santander applied 
those terms reasonably in the circumstances.
The overdraft balance on Mr Ms current account was called in as a result of 
Santanders decision. I find this was reasonable given overdrafts are revocable at 
any time, even when an account isnt closed. 
Santander should act with forbearance and due consideration when agreeing a way 
for a consumer to repay a debt. And, I see Mr M agreed a repayment plan with it to 
repay his overdraft debt. The plan allowed him to repay his debt over a period of time 
based on what he could afford. So, on balance, I find Santander acted fairly.
My final decisionI have decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman