DRN-1398567
The complaint
Mr F complains about issues he experienced with a car acquired with finance from FCA 
Automotive Services UK Ltd.
What happened
In December 2015 Mr F was supplied with a used car and entered into a contract purchase 
agreement with FCA.
In March 2019 Mr F noticed that the radio entertainment system had stopped working and 
that there was a grinding noise from the back of the car. He reported these issues to the 
supplying dealer who inspected the car and advised that a new entertainment system unit 
was required and that the rear differential bearing needed replacing at an estimated cost  of 
£4000. 
The dealer advised Mr F that because the car was out of warranty he would have to pay for 
the repairs. The dealer also advised Mr F that it wasnt able to carry out repairs to the rear 
differential straightaway because the manufacturer no longer supplied the lubricant needed 
for the repair.
Mr F was unhappy that the radio system had failed and that the rear differential needed 
replacement because he had serviced the car regularly. He complained to FCA and asked to 
reject the car.
FCA said it wasnt willing to accept rejection because there was no evidence to suggest that 
the car was faulty at the point of supply. It offered a £750 reduction on the settlement figure 
in the event that Mr F chose to settle the agreement or alternatively, a £750 reduction in the 
excess mileage charges if Mr F decided to voluntary terminate the agreement. It also offered 
£1000 towards the cost of repairs.
Mr F wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. He wants FCA to cover 
the costs of all repairs.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there was no evidence to suggest that 
the faults were present or developing at the point of supply and that based on the age and 
mileage of the car the faults were likely to be due to wear and tear.
Mr F didnt agree. He said when the faults occurred in March 2019, he took the car to a 
dealership but they were unable to repair it for 3 months because they couldnt source the 
lubricant required. Mr F felt that he should receive compensation for this period. He said hed 
accepted the offer from FCA to contribute £1000 towards the cost of repairs but didnt think 
he should be responsible for the cost of repairs to the entertainment system because he 
didnt expect this to fail within 4 years of acquiring the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because FCA has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances such 
as, amongst other things, the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault develops in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that it was present at the point of supply unless the business can show 
otherwise, and its generally up to the business to put tings right. After 6 months the burden 
of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the fault was present at the 
point of supply.
Mr F experienced the faults in March 2019, more than 6 months after the point of supply. So, 
its up to Mr F to show that the faults were present or developing at the point of supply or that 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
In order to be persuaded that the faults were present or developing at the point of supply, I 
would need to see conclusive evidence such as (for example) an independent engineers 
report, confirming that the faults wouldve been present at the point of supply. Mr F hasnt 
provided any evidence like this. 
Further, looking at the age of the car and the mileage covered, and taking into account that 
the car had been in Mr Fs possession for around 4 years at the point when the faults arose, 
I dont think its likely that the faults wouldve been present at the point of supply because 
they wouldve become apparent much sooner.
Based on what Ive seen, there isnt enough evidence to persuade me that the faults were 
present at the point of supply. I think its more likely that the issues have been caused by 
general wear and tear.
Ive thought about satisfactory quality and in particular, durability when it comes to the 
entertainment system. I appreciate that Mr F expected the radio to last longer than 4 years. 
On balance, and whilst I understand Mr Fs frustration, I dont think its unusual for electrical 
components such as entertainment systems to fail as a result of general use, so I cant 
safely conclude that the car is of unsatisfactory quality because of the problems with the 
entertainment system.
I understand why Mr F is so unhappy that the garage wasnt able to carry out repairs for 
several weeks due to being unable to obtain the required lubricant. However, Im only able to 
consider complaints about FCA as the finance provider, and FCA isnt responsible for the 
manufacturers inability to supply parts.
I can see that FCA offered to contribute £1000 towards repairs and also offered a further 
£750 reduction in the settlement figure or excess mileage charges. I think this offer was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. Im not persuaded that FCA should cover the cost of 
all the repairs, or of just the repairs to the radio.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman