DRN-3340624
The complaint
Mr W complains about the valuation Covea Insurance plc (Covea) put on his car when it was 
damaged in an accident.
What happened
Mr W had motor insurance underwritten by Covea. Mr Ws car was badly damaged when it 
was hit by another vehicle. Covea decided the car was a total loss as it could not be 
economically repaired. Covea valued the car at £26,037. Mr W wasnt happy as he said it 
would cost him more than this to replace the car with an equivalent one. Mr W also said his 
old car had a towbar and it would cost at least £900 to fit a towbar to any replacement 
vehicle. 
Mr W complained to Covea. He sent Covea some advertisements for similar cars costing 
more than Coveas valuation. Covea said it had used four trade guides to come up with an 
average valuation. Covea said the trade guides didnt consider that a towbar fitted to a car of 
the same make and model as Mr Ws made any difference to the valuation. Covea also said 
the advertisements provided by Mr W were not for the same model of car.
Mr W wasnt happy with this response and complained to this service. Our investigator 
upheld his complaint. The investigator said hed obtained his own valuations via the three 
trade guides this service uses. The average was £26,320.66. The investigator said Covea 
should pay Mr W this amount in settlement of his claim, so an extra £283.66, plus interest.
Neither Covea nor Mr W agreed with the investigators view, so the complaint has been 
passed to me. Mr W wants his claim settled for £30,000, which he says is the cost of a 
replacement car plus towbar.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ws insurance policy with Covea said in the event of a claim, Covea would decide 
whether to repair the car or replace it. Covea said the most it would pay would be the market 
value at the time of the loss. Covea defined market value as: 
The cost of replacing the car with another of the same make, specification, model, age, 
mileage and condition as the car immediately before the loss or damage happened.
Our service has a standard approach to this type of complaint. In most cases, we assess the 
market value as the price which the consumer would have had to pay for a comparable 
vehicle across the various markets, immediately before the time of the damage or loss.
Assessing the value of a used vehicle isnt an exact science. We generally find the 
valuations given in motor trade guides the most persuasive. These guides are based on 
extensive nationwide research of likely selling prices, using advertised and auction prices.
We dont provide a valuation for the settlement of the claim as thats the insurers role, but 
we determine a valuation so we can say whether or not the insurer has treated the consumer 
fairly.
Covea provided the valuations it obtained as follows:
1 - £25,410                                                                                                                                
2 - £26,250                                                                                                                                 
3 - £26,895                                                                                                                                
4 - £25,591
So Covea put the market value of Mr Ws car as the average of these valuations, which was 
£26,036.50. Covea hasnt provided this service with the full details of the information it sent 
to the guides to obtain these valuations. 
Our investigator obtained the following valuations as at the date the car was damaged:
1 - £25,450                                                                                                                                
2 - £26,262                                                                                                                                
3 - £27,250
The average of these three valuations is £26,320.66. Our investigator sent information to the 
guides including the make and model of the car and its mileage. He checked the guides and 
found a towbar wouldnt add anything to the value of the car.
Mr W has provided some adverts for similar cars which he says show that Coveas valuation 
was too low. We dont usually find advertisements for similar vehicles on their own very 
persuasive, but we do consider them, as they could indicate a problem with the guide 
values. A vehicle may often be sold for less than the advertised price, especially with private 
sales. And differences in things like mileage, year of registration, model and type can 
significantly affect the value. I dont think that Mr W has provided sufficiently detailed 
information to suggest there might be a problem with the trade guides.
Mr W says he paid £27,995 to replace the car plus nearly £1,000 for a towbar. I note though 
that the mileage on his new car was a lot less than the mileage on his old car.
Taking all this into account, I dont think that Coveas market valuation was fair and 
reasonable. I think that a market value of £26,320.66 would have enabled Mr W to replace 
his car with a similar one at the time of the accident.
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. I require Covea Insurance plc 
to pay Mr W £283.66 plus interest at 8% a year simple from the date the original payment 
was made on this claim to the date this extra payment is made. This is the difference 
between Coveas valuation and what I think a fair and reasonable valuation would have 
been.  
If Covea Insurance plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr W a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman