DRN-2909056
The complaint
Mr B complains about the handling of his account with Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide). Mr B says that the performance of his investments has been poor since he 
opened the account.
What happened
On 3 September 2012, Mr B met with Nationwide for advice on financial planning. Following 
a fact find, Nationwide provided Mr B with a financial report with recommendations.  
Mr B took up these recommendations and invested £250 per month into a Stocks and 
Shares ISA. The ISA comprised 5 separate funds. As at 11 September 2020, Mr B had put 
£24,000 into the ISA and it was valued at £23,230.51.
Mr B complained to Nationwide about the performance of his investments. Mr B said that 
although he recognised that COVID-19 would have impacted markedly on markets, he felt 
the performance had been very poor despite that.
Nationwide investigated Mr Bs complaint and issued their final decision on 11 September 
2020. Nationwide didnt feel as though they had done anything wrong and did not uphold the 
complaint.
Unhappy with Nationwides decision, Mr B referred his complaint to the service and one of 
our investigators reviewed his complaint. The investigator agreed with Nationwide and didnt 
think that they had done anything wrong.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr B has asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator for 
much the same reasons and wont be upholding the complaint.
Mr Bs initial complaint to Nationwide was largely about the performance of his investments 
held within his Stocks and Shares ISA. How an investment has performed isnt normally a 
complaint the service would look at, but Nationwide investigated the advice that they had 
provided and responded on that basis.
The investigator also looked at the advice that was provided to Mr B and this will be the 
focus of my decision. It should also be noted that the actual investments were not managed 
by Nationwide but another third party.
In his submission to the service, Mr B has said that the investment hasnt performed as he 
was told it would. Mr B also says that Nationwides communication hasnt been good 
enough. I will look at these two points in turn.
Recommendations provided to Mr B
I have reviewed the fact find information that was gathered in a meeting with Mr B on 23 
September 2012. This document includes details on Mr Bs personal and financial 
circumstances. It also records Mr Bs investment objectives and attitude to risk.
I think that the document provides a good amount of detail required for Nationwide to 
recommend investments based on Mr Bs circumstances.
The fact find records Mr Bs attitude to risk as medium and this is defined as:
If youve a medium attitude to risk its likely that you already have an interest in investing 
and are comfortable with the ups and downs of the stock market
You accept that there is a real risk of losing your money, but this is balanced with the 
prospect of greater growth
Your happy to put in a significant proportion of your money in shares or other 
unpredictable investment types 
Medium risk funds take risks to provide greater returns. They tend to contain higher risk 
fixed interest investments, shares and commercial property 
I can see that Nationwide recommended five separate funds that they thought suited Mr Bs 
attitude to risk. Nationwide also included one low risk fund in order to increase diversity as 
Mr B said he wanted as much diversification as possible over the volatile market conditions 
that were present at the time of the meeting.
I think that the investments that were recommended to Mr B fitted with his overall approach 
to investment risk and gave Mr B the diversification that he wanted. I have looked at the Key 
Investor Information factsheets for the investments that Mr B had in his ISA and I think that 
they were in keeping with his overall medium attitude to risk.
From what I have seen, I think that the advice was suitable and considered Mr Bs personal 
and financial circumstances so Im not going to ask Nationwide to do anything else.
Communication from Nationwide
Mr B has said that Nationwides communication hasnt been good and Im going to look at 
how Nationwide told Mr B about the investments within his ISA and how much he was going 
to be charged.
The advice that Nationwide gave Mr B in September 2012 was a one-off recommendation 
and was not part of an ongoing relationship like an advisory or discretionary portfolio where 
they continued to ensure that the investments matched Mr Bs ongoing suitability.
Nationwide provided Mr B with a document called The Nationwide Investment Planning 
Guide. This document described how Mr B could continue to monitor the performance of his 
investments and includes the following information:
We regularly  monitor  the performance  of our panel  of funds  to ensure  they remain 
suitable for our customers needs. If there are any changes that may have a detrimental 
impact, we will let you know so you can decide whether you want to take any action. For 
example, you may wish  to request a review of your investment(s) with a Financial Adviser.In their submission to the service, Nationwide said that they had written to Mr B in 2014, 
2016 and 2019 to say that they had identified that some funds were not performing as well 
as expected and Mr B should contact them for a review and to think about switching funds.
Nationwide said that no response was received to these letters and Mr B remained invested. 
Ive already said that Mr B didnt have a discretionary portfolio with Nationwide so they could 
not take the action to switch on Mr Bs behalf  he would have had to do this himself.
As Mr B did not respond to Nationwides letters about the performance of investments that 
he held with then, I cant hold Nationwide responsible for this and Im not going to ask them 
to do anything else.
In his submission to the service, Mr B says that he does not understand the charges that he 
is paying. The investigator responded to these questions and I found the responses to be 
adequate.
I have also looked at the information that has been sent to Mr B on charges  both at the 
time of the recommendations and after, and I think that the charges have been presently in a 
way that is fair and clear. Im not going to ask Nationwide to do anything else.
The investigator has suggested that Mr B may wish to speak to Nationwide on any specific 
questions he may have on charges or the ongoing operation of his ISA and I agree  I think 
this may help Mr B in understanding what charges are being applied to his actual 
investments.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman