DRN-2473230
The complaint
Mr G complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) irresponsibly 
approved a hire purchase agreement for him.
What happened
In May 2019, Mr G acquired a used car which was financed by a hire purchase agreement 
supplied by VWFS. The cash price of the car was around £25,000 which, together with 
interest, was due to be repaid over 36 months. The monthly repayments were around £476 
with a final optional payment of £12,600. 
Mr G said he intended to buy the car outright but was persuaded to take out a finance 
agreement by the dealership instead. He said this was because the dealership had agreed 
to give him some freebies as an incentive for taking out finance.
Mr G contacted VWFS within 14 days of the agreement starting to exercise his right to 
withdraw. Mr G was required to pay the capital amount plus an amount of interest which 
covered the number of days he had hired the car under the finance agreement. Mr G made 
this payment and the car transferred ownership from VWFS to Mr G.
Mr G complained to VWFS about the lack of checks it had carried out on his ability to afford 
the finance agreement. He said there were no checks on his income or expenditure. He said 
he hasnt suffered any loss as a result of what VWFS did but is unhappy with the lack of due 
diligence it carried out. VWFS didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it had carried 
out adequate affordability checks before approving the agreement. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think VWFS had 
carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before granting the borrowing. However, 
she considered that if reasonable checks had been completed, VWFS would still have likely 
concluded the agreement was affordable. This was because Mr G had funds available to pay 
for the agreement in full. 
VWFS agreed with our investigator but Mr G didnt. In summary, he said his complaint was 
that VWFS lack of proper affordability checks could have put his financial stability at risk, it 
wasnt relevant whether they actually did or not. It wasnt right to say the complaint wasnt 
upheld if wed found they didnt carry out adequate affordability checks.
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive considered  amongst other things  the rules and guidance for lenders set 
out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook.
When considering complaints about irresponsible lending I think there are two overarching 
questions I need to consider when deciding whats fair and reasonable. These questions are:
1. Did VWFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr G 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr G 
could sustainably repay the borrowing? 
2. Did VWFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Mr G has said he thinks it isnt necessary or appropriate for me to consider part (a) and (b) of 
question (1) above. This is because he says it isnt relevant to his complaint whether or not 
he actually suffered a loss. He says his complaint is just about whether VWFS completed 
adequate checks or not.
It seems Mr G is concerned about VWFS lending practices as a whole. Our service isnt the 
financial services regulator and it isnt my role to fine or punish a business for anything it 
may have done wrong. Instead, Im required to decide whether in the specific circumstances 
of Mr Gs complaint VWFS needs to do anything to put things right for him. In other words, 
has he suffered any financial loss or material distress and/or inconvenience as a result of 
anything VWFS did wrong. Unless I consider what impact VWFS actions had, I cant make a 
fair and reasonable determination about what  if anything  it needs to do. 
VWFS has agreed with our investigators assessment which concluded that it didnt conduct 
reasonable and proportionate affordability checks. As this part of the complaint isnt in 
dispute, I dont think I need to address it in detail here. However, for completeness, Im 
satisfied VWFS checks werent adequate. This is because it made no reasonable attempts 
to verify Mr Gs income or ask about his non-discretionary expenditure. Given the size of the 
overall borrowing and the size of the monthly repayments I think it would have been 
reasonable for VWFS to have taken these steps. 
Although Im of the view VWFS hasnt conducted adequate affordability checks before 
granting credit to Mr G, it doesnt automatically follow that I should uphold the complaint. As 
Ive said above, I also need to consider what impact its actions had. If we find a business 
has done something wrong, we will try to place the consumer (as close as possible) back in 
the position they would have been in, but for the errors the business made. 
Mr G has told us he had a lump sum of money available to pay for the agreement in full. He 
says his intention was always to buy the car outright. Had VWFS asked more questions and 
sought to get evidence of the affordability for the agreement, its likely Mr G would have been 
able to demonstrate the agreement was affordable to him. 
This means had VWFS not made a mistake (in carrying out inadequate affordability checks), 
Mr G would be in no different position than he is in now. This is because its more likely than 
not a reasonable and proportionate affordability assessment would have shown he could 
afford the finance. 
Mr G hasnt therefore suffered any financial loss as a result of the actions VWFS took. Im 
also not persuaded hes suffered any material distress or inconvenience. While he has said 
he is concerned that VWFS could have put his financial stability at risk, its clear from what 
Mr G has told us, the lending didnt cause a risk to his financial stability. It appears hes 
saying the risk was a hypothetical one, but that isnt something it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to make any award for. Overall, while I acknowledge VWFS didnt carry out reasonable or proportionate affordability 
checks, had it done so, it would likely still have lent to Mr G anyway. Im satisfied that in the 
specific circumstances of this case, those errors didnt cause any loss to Mr G which VWFS 
needs to compensate for or do anything else to put things right. Ive not seen anything else 
to make me think VWFS acted unfairly or unreasonably for any other reason. I therefore 
dont think VWFS needs to do anything to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman