DRN-3452847
The complaint
Mr P complains that he was unable to sell some of his shares because he couldnt speak to 
anyone from Santander UK Plc between February and March 2020. As a result, he says he 
suffered losses he wouldnt otherwise have suffered, and has asked for compensation. 
What happened
Mr P had an investment trading account with Santander and in February 2020 decided he 
wanted to sell some of his holdings. Mr Ps complaint is that he tried between February and 
19 March 2020 to get through to someone from Santanders investment team in order to 
make the sale, but was unable to get through to anyone. He said he even had to go in 
branch on two occasions to see if staff in branch were able to get through to the investment 
team for him. Mr P was unhappy with the service he received, and made a complaint in June 
2020, claiming for the financial losses he suffered by not being able to sell his holdings 
sooner than he did. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ps complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
short, she considered that whilst Mr P was unable to contact Santander by phone, he 
couldve traded online. She thought Santanders difficulties at the time in answering calls 
were understandable and very widespread as a result of the pandemic. And she was 
persuaded by the evidence that showed that Mr P had access to his online account and had 
logged in. She confirmed with Santander that this meant he wouldve been able to trade 
online if he wanted to, and therefore didnt need to speak to someone over the phone. As a 
result, she concluded that as Santander had offered Mr P other opportunities to trade, it 
wouldnt be fair to ask it compensate him for the losses he says he sustained. 
Mr P didnt agree. He said it was inaccurate to say he could trade online because that wasnt 
possible  all he could do was make phone calls to the investment team when he wanted to 
trade. He said if it was true that he could trade online, why did Santander not tell him to do 
this when he finally got through to them on 18 March 2020, instead of promising him a call 
back which he never received? He said Santander ought to have had systems in place to 
mitigate some of the pandemic related service issues it was experiencing, and it wasnt fair 
that he had to bear all the costs as a result of its poor service. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to start by telling Mr P that I completely understand how worrying it must have 
been for him to see the effect that the global pandemic was having on the value of his 
investments. And I can understand, therefore, that at such a worrying time, being unable to 
speak to someone from Santander as quickly as he might have wanted to wouldve likely 
made matters worse.
But I need to decide whether its fair and reasonable to conclude that Santander ought to be 
responsible for the losses Mr P says he suffered from when he says he first tried to contact 
Santander to sell his investments, until his investments were eventually sold. And in coming 
to this conclusion, I need to take into account:
The evidence of what Mr P intended to do at the time, and the steps he took to make 
Santander aware of those intentions; 
The options available to him and the steps he took to give effect to those intentions.
The evidence that Santander did something that prevented him from selling when he 
wanted. 
And when considering the above, Im sorry to disappoint Mr P  Im not persuaded by the 
evidence Ive seen that his inability to get through to the investment team is what actually 
caused his losses. 
I should start firstly by saying that Santander has persuasively explained that Mr P did in fact 
have access to the hub, and was therefore able to use it to buy and sell investments if he 
wanted to. It has confirmed that Mr P did not need to register or activate it, and in fact all he 
wouldve needed to do the first time he logged in was add an email address  and Santander 
has supplied a screenshot of Mr Ps account which showed that he had added the email 
address. It has also provided the information which it has on its website about how to use 
the hub. 
Ive listened to Mr Ps call on 18 March 2020 during which he arranged a call-back for the 
following day  I discuss the contents of this and the following days call in more detail 
below. Based on this call, Im persuaded that Mr P wasnt aware of how to sell online. But 
while I appreciate its disappointing for Mr P, Im not persuaded thats something I can hold 
Santander responsible for. It was Mr Ps responsibility to ensure he was fully aware of all the 
options around his account, including how to manage it online and how to buy and sell his 
investments. And Im satisfied Santander had sufficient information on its website for Mr P to 
be able to work out how to use the hub to trade if thats what he wanted to do. 
So Mr P had access to his hub, and confirmed in the call that he had accessed it in order to 
see what his investments were worth. Im persuaded he couldve sold his investments at any 
point should he have wanted to through the hub. And Im therefore satisfied whatever losses 
Mr P says he incurred during that period were not caused by Santander preventing him from 
trading, or not giving him options to trade. This means that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable 
for Santander to compensate Mr P.  
Furthermore, whilst I dont wish to disbelieve Mr Ps recollection of the attempts he made 
prior to 18 March 2020 to get in touch with Santander over the phone, I also have to take 
into account the contemporaneous evidence available to me. 
And having listened to the call, Mr P does not say that he had been monitoring his 
investments for some time and had been attempting to get through to sell them since 
February. Given how worried he clearly was about the value of the investments on this call, I 
consider it likely that he wouldve mentioned his prior attempts on 18 March 2020 when he 
was finally able to speak to someone. 
Instead, he tells the advisor on the phone that he had been looking on his hub the night 
before and was shocked at how far it had dropped in value. Its at that point that he asks what his options are and discusses his desire to sell. Hes told that the earliest his 
investments would be sold would be the following day. 
In my view this call demonstrates that Mr P only really made the decision to sell his 
investments on 18 March 2020. By that stage its likely he had noticed a significant drop in 
the value of his holdings, as a lot of people did at the time, and thats when he decided to 
sell his investments and get out of the market. I acknowledge he didnt receive the call back 
by 10am the following day as he was promised, but he called himself and managed to get 
through to someone from the team. Ive listened to this call as well  and here too Mr P gives 
no indication that hed been attempting to sell these investments for a number of weeks but 
had been unable to due to Santanders poor telephone service. During this call he eventually 
gives his instructions to sell his investments, and these instructions were executed that same 
day  so the failure to call back did not have an impact on the timing of the sale. 
For all these reasons, Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but I dont agree it would be fair and 
reasonable to ask Santander to compensate him. Im satisfied his losses werent caused by 
Santanders actions or inactions, but rather by what was happening in the stock market  
and thats not something anyone had any control over. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman