DRN-3157667
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mr E says MBNA Limited mis-sold him PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Es 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Es representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Es. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Es complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
MBNA had to make it clear to Mr E that he didnt have to take out the PPI. 
This was a sale by phone. Unfortunately MBNA no longer has a call recording or a call 
script from the time. And this isnt surprising given the passage of time. This does mean 
that I dont know how PPI was introduced to Mr E or how it was meant to be introduced.
But things happened many years ago and the evidence is now limited. So taking 
everything into account, I cant now fairly say that MBNA likely misrepresented the policy 
as being compulsory or that Mr E didnt agree to take it out.
Its not disputed that MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr E - so it didnt have to check 
that the PPI was right or suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr E enough clear and 
timely information so he could decide for himself if it was right for him.
I accept its possible the information MBNA gave Mr E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr E  for example he was 
eligible for the cover and there was nothing about his employment or occupation which 
would have made it difficult for him to claim. He was in good health too  so he wasnt 
affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. It doesnt appear therefore 
that it was too dissimilar to what Mr E thought he was buying - it also looks like it was 
affordable. So overall it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went 
wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr E would have declined the cover had MBNA done 
anything more.
While the policy contained an exclusion on claims relating to mental health conditions 
and a limitation on claims for back problems, in light of Mr Es circumstances at the time 
of sale and despite its limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong 
or unsuitable for him. So I think he would have still thought he had some good reasons to 
take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr E would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely he thought he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Es representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant MBNA should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Es representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Es individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Es particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means MBNA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021. 
Paul FeatherstoneOmbudsman