DRN-4030342
The complaint
J, a limited company, has complained about the settlement offered by Society of Lloyds in 
settlement of its business interruption insurance claim. Reference to Lloyds in this decision 
includes the underwriting syndicate which issued the policy.
Mrs S, the company secretary of J, has brought the claim on Js behalf.
What happened
J held a commercial insurance policy issued by Lloyds. The policy ran from 10 September 
2019 to 9 September 2020. It wasnt renewed. 
J made a claim to Lloyds in March 2020 after its business was affected by Covid-19 
lockdown restrictions. Initially Lloyds declined the claim. It said J hadnt shown its business 
interruption losses had been caused by an outbreak of Covid-19 within 25 miles of the 
insured premises.
In April 2020 the Financial Conduct Authority announced its intention to obtain a court 
declaration aimed at resolving the uncertainty around the validity of many business 
interruption insurance claims (the test case). 
In January 2021 the Supreme Court issued its judgment in the test case (The Financial 
Conduct Authority & Ors v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2021] UKSC1). As a result of that 
judgment Lloyds accepted the claim and asked J for information regarding its losses. 
Although Js policy had expired on 9 September 2020, Lloyds said it would treat the 
indemnity period as running from 23 March 2020 to 4 November 2020 being the day before 
the second national lockdown started in England. It paid J £77,70915 to settle the claim.
Mrs S complained to Lloyds about its interpretation of the indemnity period. She thought the 
indemnity period should be 12 months from 23 March 2020.
As Lloyds didnt change its decision, J brought its complaint to this service. I issued a 
provisional decision explaining why I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. An extract from 
my provisional findings is set out below:
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Js business.  However, I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why. 
Js policy was in force between 10 September 2019 and 9 September 2020. The indemnity 
period is defined in the policy as:
the period beginning with the occurrence of the incident and ending not later than the 
maximum indemnity period thereafter during which the results of the business will be 
affected in consequence of the incident.
The maximum indemnity period under the policy is 12 months. 
Lloyds paid Js claim under the following clause in the policy:
Murder, disease or public health closure
Loss resulting from interruption of, or interference with, the business by 
b) contagious or infectious human disease (excluding acquired immune deficiency syndrome 
(Aids) or an Aids related condition), an outbreak of which a competent public authority has 
stipulated will be notified to them, manifested by any person whilst at the premises or within 
a 25 mile radius of it
will be deemed to be an incident.
It's not in dispute that there was an incident in March 2020 which caused J a loss  i.e. that 
there was an occurrence of Covid-19, being a notifiable contagious or infectious human 
disease within the terms of the policy, within a 25 mile radius of Js premises, and that this 
occurrence was a contributing cause to the Governments imposing the first lockdown 
restrictions which caused it to suffer a loss.
So, Ive gone on to consider whether the losses sustained by J throughout the maximum 
indemnity period of 12 months are a result of that one incident. Having done so, I dont think 
they were because I think that the cause of Js loss in March 2020 was different from the 
cause of the loss in the two later lockdowns.
I say that because the policy covers business interruption as a result of an occurrence of 
Covid-19 within a certain radius of the premises, it doesnt cover Covid-19 in general. It 
appears to me that Js losses which commenced in March 2020 were caused principally by 
the Governments restrictions in response to cases of Covid-19 around that time. However, 
the Government restrictions were reviewed and changed over time and, given that the March 
restrictions had been eased, I dont think that the Government would have introduced new 
restrictions if it hadnt been for new cases of Covid-19 which had caused a new threat. I think 
that by November 2020 Js business had ceased to be affected by the cases of Covid-19 
which led to the March restrictions and were instead affected by new cases of Covid-19. And 
I dont think J is covered under the policy being considered here for later occurrences (which 
led to restrictions) after the policy had ended. 
In reaching a decision, amongst other things I have to consider relevant law and I think 
Stonegate and the following judgments are helpful when considering this complaint: Greggs 
PLC v Zurich Insurance PLC [2022] EWHC 2545 (Comm) (Greggs) and Various Eateries 
Trading Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC [2002] EWHC 2549 (Comm) (VE). Thats because, one 
of the issues considered by the Court was whether losses sustained beyond the expiry date 
of the policies were caused by occurrences of Covid-19 when the policy was in force. 
In Stonegate the relevant period of insurance came to an end on 30 April 2020. The court 
said (at paragraph 209):
 [The Government] responses [to rising Covid-19 cases i.e. the lockdowns in November 
2020 and January 2021] were not equally caused by the cases before the end of the Period 
of Insurance, but rather were predominantly caused by more recent cases, and the threat of 
future cases, at the time of the adoption of the measure in question. 
In VE the period of insurance came to an end on 28 September 2020. At paragraph 48 the 
court summarised the findings from Stonegate to reject VEs argument that losses 
throughout the maximum indemnity period had been caused concurrently and equally by all 
the cases of Covid-19 which had occurred within the relevant radius. The court said: (1) the decisions in the FCA Test Case do not establish that all cases of Covid-19, 
whenever occurring, were equal concurrent causes of the governmental actions and public 
response at any given time; 
(2) the fact that the cases of the disease occurred in Period of Insurance may have caused 
the later cases of the disease (because cases make cases) is not sufficient to say that the 
cases of the disease in the Period of Insurance were the proximate cause of governmental 
measures and public response after the Period of Insurance; and 
(3) the death blow or grip of the peril principle is inapplicable. 
In Greggs, the court said at paragraph 39: 
it appears highly doubtful that, on any view, there can be said to have been only one 
period of interruption or interference. It seems certain that the degree of interruption or 
interference with Greggs business changed over time between the first cases of Covid-19 
and the end of the Indemnity Period
Therefore, while an incident of Covid-19 within a 25 mile radius of Js premises was a 
contributing cause to the March 2020 restrictions which caused J to suffer loss, this same 
incident was not a contributing cause to the November 2020 restrictions which caused it to 
suffer further losses.
I believe that the judgments referred to above support my view that Js losses from 
November 2020 werent caused by an incident within the period of the policy. And therefore I 
dont think Lloyds should have to pay for the losses J incurred in the second lockdown. 
 I recognise this isnt the outcome J was hoping for but, having considered matters very 
carefully, I think Lloyds has treated it fairly and reasonably. 
Lloyds and J said they had no comments on my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any comments on my provisional findings, I see no reason to change 
them and they now form part of this final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman