DRN-3357651
The complaint
Mr B complains West Bay Insurance Plc settled his motor insurance claim unfairly. 
What happened
In April 2021 Mr B made a claim on his West Bay motor insurance policy. He explained his 
car wouldnt start because of a flat battery. He left it parked overnight. When he returned the 
next day all the wheels had been stolen. He said the car was resting on a jack and rocks. 
The oil sump had been damaged, oil was leaking out. A recovery truck took it to a garage. At 
the workshop the car wouldnt start. The problem was diagnosed as a seized engine.  
West Bay agreed to cover the wheels and damage to the sump as part of the claim. But it 
said the seized engine wasnt related to the incident, so refused to cover that loss. West Bay 
made a cash in lieu offer to settle the claim  about £4,200 after deduction of the policy 
excess. It later increased the settlement to £4,850 after Mr B provided an estimate for the 
agreed repairs.  
In July 2021 West Bay responded to a complaint from Mr B. It said the engine would have 
had to have been running to seize. Its engineer believed wouldnt be possible if oil had 
leaked from the sump. So it still refused to cover that damage. West Bay said it wouldnt 
provide a courtesy car Mr B had asked for. It explained those are only provided when its 
approved repairers are involved, but Mr B had chosen to use his own repairer. It accepted it 
could have progressed the claim more proactively. To recognise that it paid Mr B £300 
compensation. 
Mr B wasnt satisfied so came to this service. He feels the engine damage is related to the 
claim so should be covered by West Bay. He says its failure to do so has unfairly left him 
without his own car for a long period, forcing him to take out temporary insurance for 
another. He wants West Bay to cover storage fees he paid to his own garage. He would like 
further compensation for the distress, inconvenience and financial loss hes been caused by 
West Bays handling of the claim.  
In January 2022 our investigator considered the complaint. She didnt recommend West Bay 
cover the engine damage. She wasnt persuaded it resulted from the theft of the wheels. She 
felt the insurer could have done more to keep Mr B updated about the progress of the claim. 
But she was of the opinion the £300 already offered was enough to recognise the impact on 
Mr B. She said West Bays refusal to provide a courtesy car was fair and in line with his 
policy terms. Mr B didnt accept the assessment, so the complaint was passed to me. 
In April 2022 I issued a provisional decision. In it I explained why I intended to require 
West Bay to settle Mr Bs claim for damage to the cars engine and pay him an additional 
£350 compensation. My reasoning for that forms part of this provisional decision, so Ive 
copied it in below. I also invited Mr B and West Bay to provide any further comments or 
information they would like me to consider before issuing a final decision. 
what Ive provisionally decided and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs policy covers him for loss or damage to his car caused by theft or attempted 
theft. It also covers the car against malicious damage and vandalism. West Bays 
already accepted the wheels and sump damage as covered by the policy. However, 
in its engineers opinion the seized engine isnt related to the same incident  so it 
refused to cover that loss. 
Mr Bs explanation is that the oil sump was damaged when the car dropped to the 
ground when its wheels were stolen. He says the car, using temporary wheels, was 
later loaded on to a recovery truck he had arranged. He says during the recovery the 
battery problem was fixed and the engine started. He feels the engine then seized 
due to a lack of oil - it having leaked from the damaged oil sump. So the loss was 
related to the theft of the wheels and so should be settled as part of the claim. 
However, West Bay doesnt accept that order of events. It seems to consider the 
seized engine to pre-date the theft of the wheels. Its engineer says the engine would 
need to be running for a seizure. Mr Bs own garage seem to agree with that. So 
thats not in dispute. 
West Bays engineer having inspected the car, noted damage to the sump and 
leaking oil. But hes of the opinion, if the oil had drained out following the sump being 
damaged in the incident, it wouldnt have been possible for the car to start. Therefore 
it couldnt have seized following the incident. West Bays claim notes show other staff 
or agents are of the opinion the car would need to have been driven for the engine to 
reach the temperature required for an oil starvation seize.  
Having considered both positions its significant to me that West Bay accepts the 
sump damage as related to the claim. That means it accepts the sump was damaged 
as a result of the theft of the wheels. But it doesnt accept the engine seized as a 
result of the sump damage. 
It seems to me that for West Bay to be correct about both would require the engine 
seizure to pre-exist the theft of the wheels. That would seem to require the car to 
have broken down due to the engine seizure, rather than a flat battery as Mr B 
claims. Then for the wheels to have been stolen, resulting in damage to the engine 
oil sump  something that coincidentally could cause engine seizure of the car if were 
to be started.  
West Bay hasnt persuaded me thats the most likely chain of events. If its accepted 
the wheels were stolen and the oil sump was damaged as a result  then it seems 
more likely the engine seizure happened in the way Mr B describes. 
So I think as West Bay accepted the sump damage as related to the incident, it 
would have been reasonable for it to have at the same time agreed to the engine 
damage. Because of that I intend to require West Bay to take steps to put things right 
for Mr B. 
I cant currently say what would have likely happened if it had accepted the claim in 
full initially. The car may have been repaired or perhaps considered a total loss. I 
dont know if Mr B used the cash in lieu settlement for the sump damage and 
replacement wheels - or if the engine has been repaired with his own funds. So I 
dont know the condition of the car now. All this is intended to explain why its 
currently difficult for me to suggest a fair resolution for Mr B. So I invite West Bay to propose one, taking into the current circumstances of the car 
and the cash settlement already paid. I also ask Mr B to make a proposal. Ill 
consider whatever I receive before I issue a final decision setting out what West Bay 
should do.  
Mr Bs complained about being required to settle storage fees charged by his own 
garage. West Bay refused to cover them. The policy terms say it will cover such fees 
if it agrees to do so in writing. I cant see that it did. Instead it offered to collect the car 
to avoid Mr B being charged further fees. Ive considered Mr Bs reasons for not 
wanting to use West Bays providers. He had seen some bad reviews. However, on 
balance Im not persuaded thats a fair reason to require West Bay to cover the fees 
for storage he arranged.    
West Bays explained courtesy cars are provided by its approved repairers. It says as 
Mr B chose to use his own repairer and received a cash in lieu payment he wasnt 
entitled to one. I cant say West Bay failed to follow the policy terms or acted unfairly 
here.
However, it appears West Bays failure to accept the claim in full left Mr B without the 
use of his own car for longer than necessary. Hes referred to this leading to a loss of 
income. He hasnt so far provided any details of that. It seems he had access to 
another vehicle, although Im not sure about when or how often. However, overall 
West Bays failure to settle the claim in full seems likely to have caused him some 
additional cost and inconvenience across a number of few months at least.  
West Bays already offered Mr B £300 compensation for unnecessary delay. In the 
absence of more certain information, but in consideration of the likely inconvenience 
of him being without his own car, I propose West Bay pays him a total of £650 
compensation (so £350 in addition to the £300 already offered).   
In response Mr B accepted my proposed outcome. However West Bay didnt. It said it felt 
the engine damage should be registered and considered as a separate claim to the wheel 
and sump loss. It said it was a separate incident, so should be considered as so. It also said 
it was possible a liability claim could be made against the recovery company. 
In response I was sympathetic to the idea of a second claim. I felt the engine damage was 
unlikely to have been directly caused by the loss of wheels but was instead a later indirect 
consequence. I said however I was concerned a further claim would lead to further delay, 
considering how long the claim and complaint had been running for already. 
So I proposed West Bay record a second claim and reimburse Mr B what he paid for the 
engine repairs minus a second excess. I said if West Bay felt it necessary to reassure itself 
the repairs had taken place it could inspect the car and contact Mr Bs repairer. I said it could 
seek to recover costs from the recovery company if it felt that to be appropriate. 
West Bay came back to say it didnt expect a second claim to take all that long to decide. It 
said that was on the basis it had already settled the first claim and Mr Bs suppliers co-
operate with the investigation. 
As I was already sympathetic to the idea of a second claim  and Mr B had said West Bay 
could contact his mechanic and inspect the vehicle - I said the fair outcome will be for a 
second claim to be registered and the engine damage to considered under the terms of the 
policy. So I said I now intended to require West Bay to do that and pay Mr B a total of £650 compensation (including the £300 already offered). Again I asked Mr B and West Bay to 
provide any further comments for me to consider before issuing this final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
West Bay didnt respond to my latest proposal. Mr B enquired why West Bay wanted to 
register a second claim. As I set out above it considers the engine damage as a separate 
incident to the loss of wheels. It feels it didnt have the chance to investigate the damage 
fully. As a result it wants the opportunity to treat it as a second claim, to consider if it should 
be paid under the terms of the policy. 
Ive explained that I agree the engine damage was most likely not directly caused by the loss 
of wheels, so feel its fair for it to be treated as a second claim. It will also give West Bay an 
opportunity to investigate the damage and repairs. 
Mr B said hes concerned West Bay will register his car as a total loss. I cant comment on 
that here as it hasnt happened yet. But if Mr Bs unhappy with the outcome of the claim 
decision he could consider making a further complaint. 
Im still awarding additional compensation to Mr B as West Bay could have avoided some 
delay and inconvenience to Mr B by originally considering the engine damage as a second 
claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above West Bay Insurance Plc will need to:
consider the engine damage under a second claim against the terms of Mr Bs policy 
and
pay him a total of £650 compensation (including the £300 already offered). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman