DRN-2671951
The complaint
Miss H says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Miss H opened a credit card account with Capital One in 2004. At the same time, she took 
out a PPI policy to protect her monthly credit card repayments against accident, sickness 
and unemployment. Miss H applied for the credit card and PPI during a phone call. She paid 
a monthly amount for the policy. Capital Ones records show that the policy was cancelled in 
2006.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Miss H disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Hs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Miss H and Capital One agree that Miss H applied for the credit card and PPI by phone. 
Capital One hasnt been able to provide a recording of the phone call. I dont think thats 
surprising or unreasonable, given how long ago the call took place. Where the evidence 
is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely to have 
happened, based on the information I have.
I cant know exactly what was said to Miss H about PPI during the phone call. But based 
on what we know about the way Capital One sold PPI policies over the phone around the 
time when Miss H took out the credit card and PPI, I think its likely that Miss H would 
have been made aware that PPI was optional. And Im satisfied, on balance, that the PPI 
would only have been added the account if Miss H had agreed to it. 
Ive also borne in mind that the monthly payments for the PPI would have shown on 
Miss Hs credit card statements. If she didnt know what they were for, or hadnt agreed 
to the PPI, I think its likely shed have raised this with Capital One. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that she did so. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied, on balance, that Capital One made Miss H 
aware that the PPI was optional. And I think she decided to take it, knowing that she had 
a choice. But I can understand how she may no longer remember this, so many years 
later.
Miss H and Capital One agree that Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss H, or 
give her advice about it. This means Capital One didnt need to check that the policy was 
suitable for Miss H. It was for Miss H to decide whether she wanted the cover, knowing 
what alternative means shed have had of making her monthly credit card repayments if 
she was off sick, or if she lost her job.
Miss H has told us shed only have been entitled to statutory sick pay from her employer 
at the time. And she didnt have any savings or other means she could have used to 
make her monthly credit card repayments if she was unable to work. So I think she could 
have struggled to pay her bills quite quickly if shed been off sick, or if shed lost her job. 
If Miss H had made a successful claim on the PPI for accident, sickness or 
unemployment, it would have helped with her monthly credit card repayments for up to 
12 months. So I think it could have been useful to her.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied, on balance, that Miss H chose to 
take out the policy. So I think she wanted the cover at the time, even if shes 
understandably forgotten this now. Based on what Ive seen of Miss Hs circumstances 
at the time, it doesnt look as if she was affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover- for example, provisions about unusual employment arrangements or 
existing medical conditions.
The policy was competitively priced. And since Miss H was paying for it monthly, she 
could have cancelled it at any time if her circumstances changed, or if she decided she 
no longer wanted the cover. 
So taking everything into account, Im not convinced that Miss H would have made a 
different decision about the PPI even if Capital One had given her better information 
about it. On balance, I think shed still have taken it out. 
This means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss H.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss H because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss H about that. Because Capital One didnt tell 
Miss H, that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss H.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Miss H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Juliet CollinsOmbudsman