DRN-3027201
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs K complain about the way that AXA Insurance UK plc handled their home 
insurance claim for accidental damage to their septic tank.
What happened
In February 2018 Mr C and Mrs K reported a claim to AXA, after their septic tank had been 
emptied and they discovered that raw sewage was being discharged into the garden. AXA 
appointed drain specialists (D) who found that the tank had been damaged during the 
emptying process. However the existing soakaway had silted up due to the defect and 
couldnt be re-used or renewed. Due to current regulations the required size of tank couldnt 
be installed due to space restrictions on the land. A motorised treatment plant was 
considered but this would have incurred considerable running costs and was more 
appropriate for a commercial user. 
AXA attempted to negotiate with neighbours for access to their land so the drains could be 
connected to the public sewer. In the meantime neighbours referred the matter to 
environmental health. AXA employed its solicitors to help with the negotiations. However this 
proved unsuccessful. Attempts were made to negotiate a connection to a neighbouring care 
homes drains. However that neighbour required not only payment (which AXA was willing to 
pay) but onerous terms in a deed of easement, requiring that if in the future they wanted to 
move their tank, Mr C and Mrs K would have to pay re-connection fees, which they 
considered would have had implications for the value of their property. 
During this period AXA paid for the tank to be emptied once a week, but there were still 
problems with the leaking of sewage.
After two years of unsuccessful negotiations Mr C and Mrs K made their own enquiries 
through their water company. They discovered that under Section 98 of the Water 
Authorities Act (s98) a homeowner who cannot access a drain by any other means has a 
legal right to a drain connection. The water company said that AXA and its contractors 
should have known about this.
AXA appointed loss adjusters in March 2020 to take over the negotiation of the claim but that 
cancelled that appointment. Then national lockdown occurred and no action could be taken 
for several months. After complaints from Mr C and Mrs K, AXA appointed a new claims 
handler in July 2020 who they found to be very helpful. Following the escalation of the 
complaints made by the neighbours to environmental health, Mr C and Mrs K made a direct 
approach to the water company under s98 in July 2020. The company put forward a 
proposal for two schemes, one of which was to cross a neighbours land and the other to 
make connection to the sewer via the public highway. Finally after a few months of 
negotiating the water company decided that the most practical scheme was to connect to the 
public sewer via a nearby schools land. This was agreed in November 2020.
At the same time it was agreed that Mr C and Mrs K and their children could move into 
alternative accommodation (AA), and this was arranged, on an initial six months let. I 
understand the works took place, with the water company arranging the connection to the 
public sewer and AXA dealing with the private connection on Mr C and Mrs Ks land.
On review by this service our investigator said that AXA had substantially delayed the claim 
by not using the s98 process which it and its contractors didnt appear to be aware of. He 
proposed that it pay compensation of £1,000.
AXA objected to this and said that the s98 process was a last resort as it involved costs of 
over £150,000. It believed it was justified in exploring the attempting to get consent of 
neighbours and doesnt believe it should have used the s98 process earlier. It pointed out 
that it had paid for the tank to be emptied weekly. It wasnt advised about any health and 
safety issues until Mrs K told it that she and her son had suffered sickness and that there 
was a blockage to the sink. It arranged alternative accommodation shortly after that.
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
scope of this decision
This decision concerns matters that arose up to and including Mr C and Mrs Ks complaint to 
us in September 2020, although I will consider the issue of AA which was arranged in 
November 2020.
delays
Essentially Mr C and Mrs Ks complaints are regarding the delays in the process and AXAs 
failure to use the s98 process earlier. They had to live in the property from February 2018 
until November 2020 with raw sewage in the garden, which they and their children were 
unable to access particularly during lockdown.
As I understand it, the claim was dealt with by D, who advised on technical issues, and 
AXAs solicitors who made approaches to the various neighbours, and advised on the deed 
of easement issue. I should remind AXA that it is for it to prove that it didnt delay the earlier 
process up until the time that Mr C and Mrs K approached the water company under the s98 
procedure. As loss adjusters werent appointed in the early stages and I understand that 
AXAs file relating to the earlier part of the claim is corrupted, the information relating to that 
part of the claim is sketchy. 
I can see that the report on the septic tank was made after a site visit in March 2018 and 
essentially AXA accepted the accidental damage claim from that. Ds report is dated 
5 September 2018 and says that neighbours had been approached for a possible connection 
to their drains but this wasnt possible due to the neighbour becoming problematic and 
reporting the matter to environmental health. AXA approached its solicitors in September 
2018 who wrote to one of the other neighbours, but that approach was rebuffed as well. 
By November 2018 the only approach  to connect to neighbours drains - was through the 
neighbouring care home, which was prepared to agree subject to a deed of easement and a 
payment of £5,000 plus legal costs. I see that the solicitors had problems getting replies from 
the care home, and attempted to contact another neighbour. By 1 April 2019 the solicitors 
reported that the care home option was the only viable one, which I believe they started to 
proceed with. Im unclear about what happened after that.  But the terms of the proposed easement proved to be too onerous for Mr C and Mrs K, particularly in respect of the effect 
on their propertys value.
All the indications from the papers are that AXA, its solicitors and D appeared to be unaware 
of the s98 process until Mr C and Mrs Ks enquiries found this to be the appropriate step to 
take. At that stage, in March 2020 AXA appointed loss adjusters, and then (its unclear why) 
promptly cancelled them. They were not re-appointed until September 2020.
I can understand AXAs initial position  this was an accidental damage claim which might 
normally have required paying for the damage (which I understand was to the outlet pipe) to 
be repaired. So I cant criticise it for exploring other options which might have resulted in a 
less costly option of connecting to other landowners drain systems. But its clear that for 
various reasons, this process dragged on, each neighbour it approached refusing to co-
operate. The s98 procedure was the option to go for when it was clear that all other options 
(connecting to a neighbours drains, rebuilding the septic tank) had failed. But Mr C and 
Mrs K were never told that - they had to find about about it themselves.
I appreciate that this was a lengthy process and that approaching reluctant parties was 
always going to be problematic. Theres a degree of supposition in deciding what might have 
happened had AXA known about the s98 process. But I do think that, given that otherwise 
the care home option was the only available one from November 2018, and this option was 
still in its early stages by April 2019, the process could have been a dealt with quicker. Mr C 
and Mrs K say that they werent contacted at all by AXA for the first two years  all their 
contact was with D, who with all respect to them, arent claim handlers. And had they known 
there would be a solution if all other options failed, it probably would have helped Mr C and 
Mrs K to bear with the matter.
alternative accommodation (AA) 
Mr C and Mrs K and their family were put into AA in November 2020. This was after they had 
reported suffering sickness, and the sink became blocked. Prior to that the tank was being 
emptied once a week, but over time it appears that the problem with sewage leaking became 
worse. I dont think they were forced to remain in the property, the indication being that the 
house itself was still habitable. I think AXA acted promptly when it was advised of the health 
issues, and though I understand it was uncomfortable for them, I dont think I can say that 
Mr C and Mrs K should have been put into AA sooner.
compensation
Ive identified that I think there were delays in processing this matter, and that AXA should 
have been aware of the s98 option. My view is that AXA should have appointed loss 
adjusters sooner. It was only by July 2020 that Mr C and Mrs K felt that AXA was doing 
something for them, and this coincided with the approach that had been made to the water 
board. As Ive also said above it was uncomfortable for them, not only with the sewage being 
in the garden, but in the souring of relations with their immediate neighbours. I think an 
award of £1,000 is fair and reasonable and in line with awards we have made in similar 
cases.
Putting things right
AXA should pay Mr C and Mrs K £1,000 compensation.  
My final decisionI uphold the complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman