DRN-1890605
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Intelligent Advisory Services Limited (trading as Intelligent Insurance) 
declined her claim when her property was damaged by flooding. She feels she was mis-sold 
her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs E took out a home insurance policy with Intelligent Insurance. But when she suffered 
flood damage her claim was declined. Mrs E said shed read the documentation and thought 
the policy covered flood damage. So she feels the policy was mis-sold to her.
Intelligent Insurance said Mrs E had originally purchased her home insurance policy via its 
website in January 2019. Itd sent a policy welcome pack the same day. And the flood 
exclusion clause was clearly detailed in the documentation. Intelligent Insurance said the 
documentation asked Mrs E to read it carefully and get in touch if she had any questions.
A renewal offer had been sent to Mrs E the following year. The cover letter explained that 
the offer was based on the information in the policy documents. And Mrs E had again been 
asked to check the level of cover and endorsements. The flood exclusion clause was stated 
within the renewal offer schedule. Intelligent Insurance explained when customers renew 
online, they must look at any endorsements, cover limits or excesses before completing the 
purchase. And itd been clearly shown to Mrs E that flood cover was excluded from the 
policy.
 
As Mrs E had indicated during her online renewal that shed received and read the renewal 
offer and shed reviewed the endorsements applicable to the cover, Intelligent Insurance felt 
shed made an informed decision about the policy purchase.
Mrs E wasnt satisfied with Intelligent Insurances response. So she contacted our service 
and our investigator looked into the matter. He could see Mrs E had received her renewal 
documents in January 2020. And the endorsements section confirmed any loss or damage 
caused to the property by flood or flood arising from storm wasnt covered. 
He believed Mrs E had checked the endorsements applicable to the policy when she 
renewed online. And the flood exclusion had been highlighted in orange at the top of the 
page. So he was satisfied Mrs E shouldve been aware that flood damage or loss was not 
covered by the policy. 
Our investigator felt Intelligent Insurance had made it clear on the renewal and policy 
documents that Mrs E should review the applicable endorsements. And he felt the 
endorsement relating to flooding was clearly highlighted. So he couldnt say the policy had 
been mis-sold and wouldnt be asking Intelligent Insurance to do anything more.
Mrs E didnt agree. She accepted she hadnt read the endorsements but felt the wording in 
the policy indicated she was covered for flooding. And someone shouldve made her aware 
of the endorsements. So shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mrs E feels badly let down by Intelligent Insurance. She says shes purchased 
home insurance for many years and when she needed help it wasnt available. So Ive 
looked very carefully to see whats happened. And whether Intelligent Insurance has done 
anything wrong it needs to put right. 
Mrs E initially purchased her home insurance online during January 2019. She was sent the 
relevant documentation to check the policy covered her requirements. And Ive not seen any 
evidence to suggest Mrs E queried the exclusion clauses or other details.
Ive looked at the original documentation Mrs E received when she took out the policy. And 
Ive also looked at the renewal information which asked Mrs E to check the level of cover, 
including any endorsements or excesses, to make sure she was happy with the policy.
 
Mrs E was asked to take the time to read the documents carefully and check the information 
was correct and to indicate that she understood the policy terms and conditions. She was 
also asked to check that the cover, including any applicable endorsements, still met her 
requirements. The policy schedule detailed the various levels of cover provided by the 
policy. And each section was sub-headed with the phrase subject to any endorsements to 
the contrary. 
In the endorsements section of the policy schedule it refers to two specific clauses  one 
involving the flat roof that covered part of the building. The other clause, HOI-004 flood 
exclusion clause, states the insurer will not pay for any loss or damage caused by flood or 
flood arising from storm. 
When intelligent Insurance sent Mrs E the renewal notice in January 2020 it made it clear 
that the policy wouldnt automatically renew. Mrs E had to renew online. And the process 
involved viewing various screens and checking confirmation boxes before being able to 
progress to the next stage. This included the endorsements, limits and excesses involved. 
Intelligent Insurance have provided screenshots of the various stages involved in online 
policy renewal. And the policy endorsement relating to flood damage were clearly shown 
onscreen with an orange warning stating important: flood cover is excluded with this policy. 
The renewal offer schedule also contained the same endorsements section as the original 
proposal. Intelligent Insurance said Mrs E wouldnt have been able to progress without 
viewing the endorsements section. And that she did so before proceeding. So I do think 
Intelligent Insurance made reasonable and appropriate efforts to ensure Mrs E was aware 
that flood cover was excluded from both the original policy offer and the annual renewal 
offer.
And I think Mrs E shouldve been reasonably aware of the endorsements, limits and 
excesses involved in the home insurance policy. Both the original policy documentation and 
the renewal process made it clear any damage caused by flood wouldnt be covered by the 
policy. 
Mrs E said the flooding had been caused by blocked drains and culverts rather than storms. 
And she said the policy documents led her to believe she was covered for any such damage, 
whether it was from flooding, storms or the weight of snow.  I can see Mrs E applied for the home insurance policy in a non-advised basis. This meant 
that it was for Mrs E to decide how she wished to proceed. And it was her responsibility to 
make sure the home insurance policy was suitable for her needs. 
Based on everything Ive seen I cant hold Intelligent Insurance responsible for Mrs Es 
decision not to properly look at the endorsement section or review it when renewing her 
policy. The flood exclusion clause was clearly presented in both the documentation and 
online. Mrs E was asked a number of questions to confirm she had received and read the 
policy documents. And she wasnt able to complete the renewal process without confirming 
she had viewed the endorsement section. So I think its reasonable to believe Mrs E was at 
least aware the endorsements existed on her policy  regardless of what attention she paid 
to them. 
I understand Mrs E accepts she didnt read the endorsements. But they are a crucial part of 
the policy schedule. And the endorsement relating to flood damage was clearly stated in 
both the original documentation and during the online application. While I appreciate how 
stressful this has been for Mrs E, I cant say she was mis-sold the home insurance policy. 
And I cant uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman