DRN-1517639
 
The complaint
 This complaint is about Mr As mortgage with Preferred Mortgages Limited. Hes unhappy 
that Preferred debited his mortgage account with a solicitors referral fee and litigation costs 
because of arrears. 
What happened
 Briefly, Mr A was in arrears in the spring of 2019; in May he spoke to Preferred on the 
phone about setting up a payment arrangement. Preferred said that before it would agree to 
an arrangement, it required evidence of Mr As medical situation. Mr A was reluctant to 
provide this and so Preferred instructed solicitors to begin litigation.
The litigation was stopped when Mr A brought his arrears up to date. But hes unhappy that 
hes been debited with a £90 solicitors referral fee and litigation costs of £122.50.
Our investigator didnt think Preferred had done anything wrong; Mr A has asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting position is that lenders generally are permitted under the mortgage terms to 
apply fees and charges to cover the additional cost of administering a mortgage account that 
is in arrears. Such charges are typically set out in a separate tariff of charges. Lenders can 
also debit a mortgage account with reasonable litigation cots.
But lenders also have a duty to treat customers fairly, and even where fees have been 
applied in accordance with the account terms and the tariff of charges, well still give 
separate consideration to whether theyve been applied fairly.
Ive looked at wheat happened in Mr As case, and I dont find that Preferred treated him 
unfairly when it set in motion the events that led to the disputed charges being applied to his 
mortgage. Firstly, Mr A was in arrears; secondly, Preferred had made a reasonable request 
for information that it regarded as necessary in order for it to make a decision on a payment 
arrangement, and he hadnt responded.
In those circumstances, referring Mr As account to solicitors for litigation wasnt unfair or 
unreasonable at the time; nor has it been rendered so retrospectively because Mr A was 
subsequently able to clear his arrears. Preferred stopped the litigation as soon as Mr A had 
cleared his arrears, and the costs it has applied to his account are a reasonable reflection of 
the work its solicitors did up to that point.  
My final decision For the reasons set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint, or make any order or award against Preferred Mortgages Limited. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman