DRN-3673077
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wrongly delayed payments which he 
wished to make, and that they did not respond appropriately when he raised these issues.
What happened
Mr M held an account with HSBC. On 25 January 2022, he attempted to make a series of 
transfers to an account held by another person. These transfers were all for low amounts, 
with the same intended beneficiary.
HSBC says that repeated transfers like this were flagged as suspicious. In the 
circumstances, it says, the transfers were blocked and text messages were sent to Mr M 
asking him to call the bank before these transfers could go through.
The bank says that, when Mr M called, he did not provide enough details to pass their fraud 
checks. While the bank was satisfied that it was speaking with Mr M, it was not satisfied that 
the transactions werent part of a scam or a fraud. It says that, to protect Mr M, it rejected the 
payments and blocked his account. It says that the checks were a reasonable precaution in 
order to protect customers and that they were carried out in a reasonable manner.
Mr M says that the additional checks were unnecessary. He confirmed to HSBC that he 
wanted the payments to be made and he says that the additional questions were irrelevant 
once this had been established. He says that the bank did not address his complaint 
promptly and that he was unnecessarily passed from department to department.
On 13 April 2022, Mr M attempted to make two transfers of £100 to a business. The bank 
says that these payments were flagged for fraud checks. Following a call with a bank 
employee, and a series of fraud check questions, these payments were cleared for payment. 
Mr M says that these checks were unnecessarily intrusive and that the phone calls were 
delayed by him being left on hold for an unnecessarily long period.
The bank accepts that technical issues meant that Mr M was put on hold and not taken off 
hold at any point. It says that this was caused by technical issues and that these could not 
be helped. It says that the fraud checks were reasonable and that the payments were 
cleared once the checks had been passed. The bank also agrees with Mr M that it did not 
deal with his complaints as promptly as it should have, passing him between departments 
unnecessarily. It has paid him £100 to reflect these mistakes.
Our investigator considered that HSBC had got things wrong in the way that the complaints 
and calls had been handled, but that the £100 already paid properly reflected this. However, 
they thought that the fraud checks were reasonable and carried out reasonably. They did not 
think that the bank needed to do anything more.
Mr M did not agree and so this has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As a financial business, HSBC is entitled to have policies and procedures around flagging 
and checking transactions that it views as suspicious. Thats in line with what the regulator 
would expect of it. Its not the role of this service to look at those policies and procedures in a 
wider sense. Instead our role is to look at whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of an individual complaint.
I have considered the payments which led to the checks in January 2022. These were a 
series of transfers in small amounts to the account of an individual. I am satisfied that it is 
not unreasonable for a bank to take the view that this sort of series of transactions is worth 
questioning in order to protect a customer from potential fraud. The repeated series of 
transactions in low, generally matching, amounts to the same person, meant that these 
flagged on the banks system as suspicious. 
I have listened to the call between Mr M and HSBC on 25 January 2022. The bank 
employee asked a series of questions about the transactions. While they apologised for the 
possibly intrusive nature of these questions, I am satisfied that the questions were 
reasonable in context. Fundamentally, the staff member asked about the identity of the 
payee, the reason for the transactions, and the reason for those transactions being spread 
over so many separate payments rather than collected into a single one. While I can 
understand Mr Ms position, as expressed in the call, that it was none of the banks business, 
I am satisfied that all three of those areas were reasonable in the context here. 
I have considered Mr Ms responses to those questions. While I understand that he did not 
wish to share information in relation to all of them, I am satisfied that the responses he gave 
did not give clear answers to each of those three fundamental questions identified above 
and can see why the bank didnt make the payments and wanted to take further steps before 
doing so.
Mr M argues that the bank ought simply to make the payments he directs it to make. I can 
certainly understand this. But a bank must seek to protect its customers from increasingly 
sophisticated scams. And this means that it will have to act when it thinks that there may be 
something suspicious about payments, even if a customer doesnt necessarily think thats 
the case themselves. When viewed impartially, all the bank was doing here was acting in Mr 
Ms best interests  even if I realise that he wont see it the same way.
Given these concerns, I am satisfied that blocking Mr Ms account until he could visit a 
branch was reasonable. He was able to go to a branch the next day, and the block was 
lifted. This was an inconvenience, but I am satisfied this was proportionate to the risks of 
fraud which were being addressed. Any blocks on the account were only in place overnight, 
and there is no evidence to suggest that they caused Mr M any financial or other loss.
So overall, Im satisfied that the bank was entitled to have blocked the January transactions 
and that it acted fairly in how it dealt with the situation around them.
The transactions in April were flagged for different reasons, but were two payments in the 
same amount to a new payee. Again, the banks systems flagged these for additional 
checks. I have listened to the call with the bank about these checks. They related to the 
reason for the transactions, the identity of the payee, and the checks which Mr M himself 
had carried out. This conversation took around 25 minutes in total, but issues other than the 
checks were being addressed. I am satisfied that the checks that the bank made were 
reasonable, and were carried out in a fair and reasonable manner. The payments were 
cleared following this call. I am satisfied that this was fair and reasonable. I have listened to a number of calls between Mr M and HSBC which were plainly impeded by 
technical failures. Bank employees were speaking, and Mr M could not be heard. I have not 
heard a specific call upon which Mr M was placed on hold and then ignored, but given what 
Mr M has said  it seems likely this happened. While I am satisfied that Mr M was placed on 
hold and then seemingly ignored, given the other calls, and the fact that people were 
working from home during the COVID-19 pandemic, I am also satisfied that this was due to 
technical difficulties, rather than any unfair or unreasonable treatment by HSBC.
I am satisfied, then, that the stopped transactions were stopped reasonably. I am satisfied 
that the questions in each case asked were reasonable, and that it was reasonable to 
consider that the banks fraud concerns in April had been addressed, but those in January 
had not. I am satisfied that an overnight account block was reasonable in January.
I have not seen or heard anything to satisfy me that HSBC acted unfairly or unreasonably at 
any point in the complaints which I have considered. The bank has agreed that it got things 
wrong in relation to passing calls between departments. They have paid Mr M £100. I am not 
going to ask it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Marc Kelly
Ombudsman