DRN-3690919
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
applied, when he handed back a car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In July 2016, Mr S entered into a three-year hire purchase agreement to acquire a brand 
new car. The agreement reached maturity in July 2019 and the car was collected on             
3 July 2019 by MBFS recovery agents  who Ill refer to as B. 
An inspection was carried out at Mr Ss property. It said the following damage, totalling 
£1,082.89, was outside of fair wear and tear:
1. General exterior  dirty - £10
2. General interior  dirty - £48
3. Left hand front wheel  painted alloy damage - £85
4. Left hand rear wheel  excessive damage - £180.62 
5. Right hand rear wheel  excessive damage - £180.62
6. Right hand front wheel  painted alloy damage - £85
7. Rear bumper  broken - £493.65
Mr S complained to MBFS as he was unhappy with the charges. He said the damage 
charges were excessive, he wasnt given the opportunity to have the car repaired 
independently and that he couldnt afford to pay the damage charges. MBFS offered to set 
up a suitable repayment plan and offered Mr S a 15% reduction of £162.43 to the damage 
invoice total. But Mr S disagreed. 
MBFS issued its response to Mr Ss complaint. It said the damage charges were evident but 
agreed to remove the charges for the exterior and interior cleaning and agreed to honour the 
15% discount its agent had previously offered. So, the remaining balance owed by Mr S was 
£862.46.
Unhappy with this, Mr S referred his complaint to this service. He reiterated his complaint 
and said he thought the Vehicle Return Standards (VRS) were too vague and he should 
have been given time to repair the car at a significantly cheaper rate and allowed to have it 
collected at a later date. Mr S said he was happy to accept that the fixes were required, but 
he thought the repair costs were too high. He said to put things right, he wanted MBFS to 
return the car to him or reduce the cost of the repairs.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said she thought the charges were applied 
fairly in line with VRS and the industry standard - The British Vehicle Rental & Leasing 
Associations (BVRLA) fair wear and tear guidelines. She said it wasnt for this service to 
get involved with MBFSs damage charges pricing structure and she said Mr S was provided 
with a copy of the VRS, as they are contained in his finance agreement. She said she 
thought the offer from MBFS to reduce the charges as a gesture of goodwill was fair.
Mr S said he wasnt present at the time of the inspection and says his father was told he 
wouldnt be provided with additional time to allow him to make the repairs the inspector had 
identified. He also said he offered to collect the car and make the repairs and return it once 
they had been completed as the cost of the repairs was so high. 
As Mr S remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Mr S has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Mr S complains about a hire purchase agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts 
such as this is as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mr Ss 
complaint against MBFS. 
When reaching my decision, Im required to consider relevant industry guidance. Here, 
relevant guidance includes the guidelines on fair wear and tear published by the trade body, 
the BVRLA. This guidance is generally intended for the return of new cars at the end of the 
first leasing cycle. MBFS arent members of the BVRLA, but Ive considered the BVRLA 
guidelines alongside MBFS VRS. 
The VRS are set out in Mr Ss hire purchase agreement and these explain the standards that 
MBFS expected this car to meet on return. When Mr S acquired his car under the hire 
purchase agreement, he agreed to return the car in line with the standards set out in the 
VRS. And he agreed that MBFS would be entitled to charge him for costs of repairs and/or 
refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the consequent reduction in the sale value, as 
compensation. 
Mr S doesnt appear to dispute that the damage was present when the car was collected by 
B. However for completeness, Ive reviewed whether I think the damage charges have been 
fairly applied.
Alloy damage
In relation to alloys, the VRS say the following damage is acceptable:
minor scuffing or damage under 25mm to the vehicle alloy or steel rim edge or wheel face. 
And the following is not acceptable: 
scuff chips and scratches exceeding 25mm. 
BVRLA guidance says: 
Dents on wheel rims and wheel trims are not acceptable. 
Scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are 
acceptable. 
Any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia, or hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable. 
There should be no rust or corrosion on the alloy wheels. 
Ive looked at the photographs provided for all four of the alloys where damage was 
identified by B. Whilst it hasnt been measured with a ruler, the photographs provided show 
damage and scuffing in excess of 25mm. In light of this, Im satisfied MBFS is entitled to 
charge Mr S for the damage to all four alloys as it falls outside of fair wear and tear.
Bumper Bs condition report identified that the rear bumper was broken. 
In relation to the bumper and body mouldings, the VRS say the following isnt acceptable: 
Discoloured, loose, cracked, distorted, gouged or split bumpers and mouldings that require 
replacement, plastic welding or painting. 
Ive looked at the photograph which show the rear bumper. This shows there is a noticeable 
crack in the bumper. As a result of this, I think its fair for MBFS to charge Mr S to replace 
the bumper.
Mr S says he wasnt provided with an opportunity to repair any of the damage identified by 
B. However, he was provided with a copy of the VRS at the time he took out the agreement 
as these are contained within his hire purchase agreement. Therefore Im satisfied Mr S was 
made aware of what damage was and wasnt acceptable under the VRS. Whilst Mr S says 
he didnt have an opportunity to make the repairs before he returned the car, the VRS are 
clear and it would have been down to Mr S to carry out any repairs before the car was 
collected by B. So I dont think MBFS did anything wrong when it didnt allow Mr S to retain 
the car and make his own repairs before handing the car back. 
I also understand that Mr S says the cost of the repairs are excessive. However, Ive 
reviewed the charges and I dont think theyre excessive or unreasonable given the extent of 
damage identified by B and that three items needed to be replaced. So it follows that I dont 
think MBFS need to do anything further in relation to the cost of the repairs.
My final decision
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited has already made an offer to reduce Mr Ss 
outstanding balance from £1,082.89 to £862.46 to settle the complaint. I think this offer is fair 
in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should reduce Mr Ss 
outstanding balance to £862.46.
Id also take this opportunity to remind Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited of its 
obligations to treat Mr S with forbearance and due consideration if he is currently in financial 
difficulty. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman