DRN-1929795
The complaint
Miss T complains that, in 2007, HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold her a packaged bank account 
(PBA). 
What happened
Miss T had had a bank account with HSBC since 1990. In June 2007 the account was 
changed into a fee paying Plus PBA. It cost £12.95 a month and came with worldwide 
family travel insurance, and some other benefits such as preferential overdraft and loan 
rates and credit card interest rebates. In 2014 the account was reorganised so that the 
actual account was free, and customers were transferred over to separate equivalent 
insurances (which by then included travel, motor breakdown and mobile phone cover) for 
£9.95 a month.
Miss T says she wasnt given an option about paying the fee in 2007. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Miss T didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The crux of Miss Ts complaint is that the change to the PBA in 2007 was without her 
consent. She says that she queried the fee when it first appeared, and was told it was 
part and parcel of my account and that I couldnt continue running the same account 
without making this additional monthly payment.
Against this, HSBC has said that its normal procedures would have been to give its 
customers a choice about changing to a PBA.
A major problem is that this all happened about 14 years ago. HSBC isnt normally 
required to keep documents for that long. Also, it wouldnt be surprising if someone didnt 
remember the detail of something that happened that long ago - so I dont know what 
weight I can put on what Miss T now remembers. 
Although I cant be sure, I also think its likely that Miss T would have known it was 
possible to have free banking  such accounts were widely available, including from 
HSBC. And Miss T has confirmed she did open another account with HSBC later in 2007, 
which was fee free. So I am surprised she didnt move hover to a free account, if she 
believed she was being charged for something she didnt want. 
Miss T has said she was too busy with her family and working life to search and compare 
the market and she just accepted what HSBC had told her about her main account. And 
the additional 2007 account was opened because of a significant life event and was not 
being used as a normal account with direct debits, overdrafts and such like. 
I can completely accept that such realities of life could explain why she accepted the 
situation. But it does also open up the alternative possibility that, at the time, HSBC 
offered the change as a choice and Miss T accepted that choice, but has since forgotten 
this. 
The overall problem is that I dont have strong enough evidence to uphold Miss Ts 
complaint. It wouldnt be fair to make HSBC prove it didnt so something wrong  instead, 
fairly, I would need reasonable evidence to show that it probably did do something wrong. 
And I cant say that there is that kind of evidence. So I cant say that the PBA was mis-
sold in the way Miss T now believes. 
Although Miss T hasnt specifically raised this, Ive checked to see whether there is 
evidence of mis-sale in some other way. But, having done so, I dont think there is.
HSBC had to give her enough information for her to make a choice. Because of the lack 
of surviving evidence, I cant be sure that it did. So Ive thought about whether full 
information is likely to have deter Miss T from taking the PBA. But I cant fairly conclude 
that it would. Ill explain why. 
Obviously, Miss T is saying she wasnt told the most vital piece of information, which is 
that she had a choice about taking the PBA. But Ive addressed that already. And I cant 
see that full information about the benefits of the PBA would have put her off. I say this 
because it looks like she could have potentially made use of the travel insurance and 
wasnt affected by the significant exclusions. And there were potentially useful banking 
benefits, such as free ATM withdrawals abroad, and preferential overdraft and loan rates. 
It would then have been up to her to decide if it was worth it personally for her. 
So my overall conclusion is that I dont have strong evidence the PBA was mis-sold.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Miss Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman