DRN-4126400
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire agreement with LeasePlan UK 
Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 30 December 2021, Mr D was supplied with a new car through a hire agreement with 
LeasePlan. Mr D paid an advance rental of £4,198, and the agreement was for 48 months; 
with monthly hire payments of £349.86.
On 2 November 2022 the car developed a fault, with the airbag warning light coming on. Mr 
D took the car to the supplying dealership, who agreed to repair the fault. However, they 
were only prepared to provide a courtesy car if Mr D paid £15 a day for this. And Mr D wasnt 
prepared to pay this.
The repairs were completed on 18 November 2022, and the car returned to Mr D. Mr D 
complained to LeasePlan the same day about the delay in the repairs being done, and that 
he was without use of a car he was paying for while the repairs were taking place. But 
LeasePlan didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr D brought it to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service for investigation.
The fault with the car reoccurred on 18 January 2023. But the supplying dealership havent 
been able to repair it. And Mr D says hes not been able to use the car, because it wasnt 
safe to do so.
Our investigator said its likely there was a fault with the car. And the fault code for the fault 
in November 2022 was the same fault code for the fault in January 2023. The investigator 
said the November 2022 fault occurred after 3,679 miles, and the January 2023 fault after 
4,739 miles. So, she didnt think the car was sufficiently durable and no reasonable person 
would expect an airbag to fail after around a year and less than 5,000 miles.
While the investigator acknowledged there was some dispute as to what Mr D had been told 
by the dealership after the second fault occurred, she didnt think this had any bearing on the 
lack of durability. And, as the dealership had already had the opportunity to repair the fault in 
November 2022, and this repair wasnt successful, the investigator said that Mr D should be 
able to reject the car. She also said that LeasePlan should refund the payments Mr D has 
made when he hasnt been able to use the car, as well as a pro-rata refund of the advance 
payment, plus statutory interest, and £150 for the trouble and upset Mr D has been caused. 
While Mr D agreed with most of the investigators recommendations, he thought LeasePlan 
should increase the compensation to £300 due to the length of time the dealership had taken 
to diagnose and attempt to fix the faults, because he had to make four trips to the 
dealership, and because of the impact of not having a car on his day to day life.
LeasePlan also disagreed with the investigator. They didnt think the investigators view was 
in line with the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) because the fault occurred more than six 
months after the car was supplied to Mr D. And they are only allowed one chance at repair 
for faults which occurred within the first six months. As the fault occurred after six months, 
LeasePlan say that its for Mr D to prove the fault existed when the car was supplied to him 
and, as he hasnt done this, they are able to repair the car under warranty.
Finally, LeasePlan have said that Mr D didnt choose to pay for an optional extra 
maintenance package when he took out the agreement, which wouldve kept him mobile 
while his car was being repaired. And he was offered the option of a courtesy car at £15 a 
day and didnt take this. So, they dont think that Mr D should be compensated for being 
without a car.
Because neither party agreed with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr D was supplied with a car under a hire 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to 
investigate complaints about it. 
The CRA says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, LeasePlan are responsible. Whats 
satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant circumstances. In a case like this, 
this would include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale, and the vehicles 
history and its durability. Durability means that the components of the car must last a 
reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless LeasePlan can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr D to show it was present when the 
car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr D took possession of it, or that it wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask LeasePlan to put this right.
From the evidence Ive seen, the car developed an airbag fault on 2 November 2022. The 
supplying dealership didnt fix this fault until 18 November 2022, when they over-rode the 
fault and did a software update. And Mr D wasnt able to use the car between these dates for 
safety reasons - the airbag wouldnt have deployed in the event of an accident.
The dealerships job card for this fault confirmed an airbag error light has come on since 
2/11/22 and the car had travelled 3,679 miles. It also confirmed that the car was returned to 
Mr D on 18 November 2022.The airbag fault reoccurred on 18 January 2023 and the dealership werent able to inspect 
the car until 9 February 2023. After this inspection the dealership said this wasnt a recurring 
issue, and the second fault, although it displayed the same error, had a different root cause. 
However, the dealership was unable to fix this fault and were awaiting a part from the 
manufacturer which was on back order. Because of the same safety issue  the airbags not 
deploying in an accident  Mr D says he didnt use the car after 18 January 2023.
The job card for this inspection confirmed an airbag light is on the dash and the car had 
travelled 4,739 miles. It also confirmed the car was returned to Mr D on 10 February 2023.
Based on the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied there was a fault with the car. This fault didnt 
become apparent until more than nine months after the car was supplied and, as LeasePlan 
have said, the CRA implies its for Mr D to show the fault was present at the point of supply. 
Which he hasnt been able to do.
However, when considering the CRA, I also need to consider if the car was sufficiently 
durable. Theres an issue with a control module, which means the airbag system is not 
working. And this part is on back order from the manufacturer, so the fault cant be fixed. I 
dont think any reasonable person would expect the control module to fail after less than 
5,000 miles and, as such, Im satisfied that the car wasnt reasonably durable. And this 
makes it not of a satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
In circumstances like this, the CRA allows for a single chance at repair. For clarity, this 
means one chance to fix all the faults with the car, not one chance per fault. And this single 
chance of repair isnt impacted by whether the fault manifested itself before or after six 
months from supply.
The dealership attempted to fix a fault by a software update in November 2022. But the fault 
that now requires a replacement control module remains. Given this, Im satisfied its 
reasonable for me to conclude this single chance of repair was unsuccessful. And, as the 
dealership arent able to provide any timescale for when a repair could be undertaken, Im 
satisfied that Mr D should be allowed to reject the car.
Putting things right
I appreciate LeasePlans comments about the optional extra maintenance package, and the 
offer of a courtesy car at £15 a day. However, Mr D has had periods when he wasnt able to 
use the car he was hiring from LeasePlan, yet he was still required to continue to make the 
monthly hire payments. And I dont think that, just because Mr D didnt choose to pay extra 
to have a courtesy car means its fair that LeasePlan should be able to charge him for a car 
that wasnt of a satisfactory quality for periods when he wasnt able to use the car. As such, I 
think its reasonable that LeasePlan should refund the payments Mr D has made covering 
the periods the car wasnt available and/or driveable.
Based on the evidence Ive seen; Im satisfied that Mr D didnt use the car for the period it 
was awaiting repair  2 to 17 November 2022 and 18 January to 9 February 2023  a period 
of around a month. 
Mr D has provided evidence of the current mileage on the car and Ive seen this is 5,947. As 
such, this means the car has done 1,154 miles since it was returned to him on 10 February 
2023. So, I dont think its fair for me to say that Mr D hasnt used the car since its return.In her view, the investigator said that LeasePlan should refund payments to Mr D for the 
periods he was unable to use the car. Given the above, I think its fair that this should be the 
December payment  its roughly equivalent to the total period Mr D was without the car, and 
it falls roughly in the middle of the two periods he was without the car.
Finally, Im satisfied that Mr D has been inconvenienced by what has happened. Hes had to 
take the car back to the dealership for repair on two occasions, and has had to wait over two 
weeks on each occasion before the dealership could fit him in. And hes now been left with a 
car that cant be fixed in a reasonable timescale and cant be driven with all of its safety 
features working.
While Ive noted Mr Ds comments about the impact of not having use of a car, Ive also 
taken this into consideration with the refund of the payments detailed above. As such, while 
Im satisfied LeasePlan should compensate Mr D for the inconvenience hes been caused, I 
see no compelling reason not to adopt the £150 recommended by the investigator.
So, LeasePlan should:
end the agreement with nothing more to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr D;
remove any adverse entries relating to this agreement from Mr Ds credit file;
refund, on a pro-rata basis, the advance payment for spread rentals (so Mr D isnt 
paying for any period he wont be hiring the car);
refund the December 2022 payment to Mr D, to compensate him for the total period 
he didnt have use of the car;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refunds, calculated from the date Mr D made 
the payment to the date of the refund ; and
pay Mr D an additional £150 to compensate him for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality.
HM Revenue & Customs requires LeasePlan to take off tax from this interest. LeasePlan 
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ds complaint and LeasePlan UK Limited should 
follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman