DRN-2468894
The complaint
Mr A complains about the quality of a bike he has been financing through an agreement with
Billing Finance Ltd (Billing Finance).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in December 2020. I explained that I 
wasnt expecting to uphold Mr As complaint. An extract from that provisional decision is set 
out below. 
Mr A took receipt of a used bike in October 2019. He financed the deal through a hire
purchase agreement with Billing Finance.
In January 2020 the bike broke down so Billing Finance organised for an independent
engineer to inspect it.
The engineer thought the damage had been caused because the engine oil had not been
maintained at the right level. He said that was something Mr A would have needed to do,
and he didnt think Billing Finance needed to take responsibility for the repair that was
required as he said the damage was unlikely to have been there when Mr A took receipt of
the bike.
Our investigator didnt agree. She didnt think the independent engineers comments had
been clear and she noted that after the independent report had been produced they had
advised Billing Finance that the damage was likely to have been because the bike was
burning oil or there was a leak somewhere. So, she thought Billing Finance should take
responsibility for the repair and that they should refund the costs Mr A had incurred storing
the bike.
Billing Finance disagreed and they therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr A, but I dont currently agree with the investigators view and Im
not expecting to uphold this complaint. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr A acquired his bike under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the bike should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Billing Finance, who are also the supplier of the bike,
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. It also says we
should take into account whether the bike has proven to be durable when considering if it
was of satisfactory quality.
In a case like this which involves a bike the other relevant circumstances would likely include
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the bike was supplied to Mr A. The bike
here was around three years old and had completed 12,278 miles. So, I think a reasonable
person would expect some wear and tear to be present.
Billing Finance say that the bike failed because Mr A hadnt maintained it properly. They are
supported in that finding by the assessment of the independent engineer who said, the
cause of the condition is consistent with overheating due to a lack of lubrication to the piston
and who also commented that the bike had not been well looked after and was unkept. They
also explained that the bike had completed about 2,500 miles in the time Mr A had it and
Billing Finance suggested this was significantly higher than the average mileage they would
expect.
The supplying dealerships inspection of the bike revealed damage that they suggested was
consistent with oil starvation.
However, the independent engineer didnt provide a view about why the bike would consume
so much oil in the limited time Mr A had it and thats what Mr A had been complaining about.
In an email exchange between Billing Finance and the independent engineers, a couple of
weeks after the independent inspection was completed, that question was raised. The
representative from the independent engineers said:
The bike should not consume that amount of oil, as such we can only assume two things
the bike is burning oil or there is a leak somewhere.
If the bike is not burning oil it is possible that there was not enough oil in, but on discussion
with my engineer bikes do not use considerable amounts of oil during service use as such
there would be no reason for the bike to be low on oil prior to sale, and we suspect the issue
would have become apparent to the consumer a lot sooner had the oil been low at the point
of sale.
It was on this basis that our investigator suggested that there was evidence the bike was
faulty when supplied.
But Billing Finance asked the independent engineers for a further explanation. On 25 June
2020 they responded and explained that the manufacturer expected the bike to use up to
one litre of oil per 1,000 miles. They said the bike was not using excessive oil and the oil
consumption is as expected and indicate(s) that the vehicle has been operated with low oil
and this would be the hirers responsibility.
The independent engineers are experts on these issues, and they have a duty to the court to
provide an independent view. Whilst I understand that prior to 25 June 2020 their
explanation was confusing, I think they have now cleared that up and, on the basis of that
advice, I think it is most likely that Mr As bike failed because oil levels hadnt beenmaintained correctly.
I understand that Mr A disputes the calculation thats been made of the mileage he covered
on the bike. Hes explained that the first odometer was faulty and was changed. So, to
calculate the mileage completed its been necessary to add up the mileage on the original
odometer and add it to the mileage on the replacement, second hand odometer. That
mileage adds up to 2,480 miles.
The mileage completed on both odometers is over 1,200 miles. The manufacturer says that
the bike could use one litre of oil for every 1,000 miles travelled and the bike had an oil tank
capacity of one litre. So, even if one odometer reading is wrong its clear that at least 1,200
miles had been recorded. That, according to the manufacturer, is enough to deplete the oil
level to a point where the engine would be starved of oil. As Mr A accepted he hadnt topped
up the oil at any point I think its reasonable to suggest that the oil had been used up and the
engine was therefore starved of it. The damage evidenced by the dealership is therefore
most likely to have occurred because the bike hadnt been maintained in line with the
manufacturers guidelines.
I therefore dont think it is reasonable to ask Billing Finance to take any further action as I am
not currently persuaded there was anything wrong with the bike at the point of supply and I
dont think theres evidence it hasnt been sufficiently durable. On the evidence provided I
am persuaded that the failure is the result of the bike not being maintained properly.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above I am not expecting to uphold this complaint.
Billing Finance accepted my decision, but Mr A didnt.
He said hed not seen evidence that the manufacturer had suggested the bike would 
consume one litre of oil for every 1000 miles travelled. So, the investigator provided a copy 
of Billing Finances call with the manufacturer.
When Mr A reviewed this call, he said it supported his argument. He said the manufacturer 
had explained that, whilst the industry standard was one litre for every 1,000 miles, by the 
time it had got to that point it had serious problems. So, Mr A disputed my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The manufacturer explained that the industry standard is 1,000 miles per litre and did explain 
that when the usage was that high the bike would have serious problems.
He went on to explain that bikes of this calibre tended to be run hard and it was therefore not 
unusual to find oil consumption at that level. He explained that was the reason why the 
owners manual said the bike should have its oil checked daily. 
I think its clear Mr A didnt check the oil in line with the owners manual recommendations as 
the engine oil had clearly been significantly depleted. 
The owners manual also explains that the oil filter should be changed at 14,000 miles and 
the engine oil should be changed every 1,800 miles. Mr A has accepted that he didnt change the oil and as Im persuaded he had travelled more 
than 1,800 miles, and as that would mean an oil change and filter change would be 
necessary, I dont think this bike can fairly be said to have been adequately maintained and I 
think thats the most likely cause of the oil starvation which created the overheating.
So, Ive not been persuaded to change my provisional decision and that now becomes my 
final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman