DRN-2161906
The complaint
Mr S complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) wont refund a disputed 
transaction  plus interest  made from his credit card.
What happened
Mr S disputes a transaction of £140.00 that was made from his Capital One credit card on 
12 September 2019. This payment was made to a retail company, which I will refer to as A 
in this decision.
Mr S contacted Capital One stating that he didnt make this transaction, nor did he provide 
his consent for anyone to do so on his behalf. He provided Capital One with a screenshot of 
his online account with A, stating that it showed no purchases were made with A on 
12 September. He also provided a chat transcript, which he said took place between himself 
and an advisor at A. Mr S argues that the advisor also confirmed that no purchases were 
made on 12 September.
Captial One investigated and decided not to refund the disputed transaction. They said,
there was no evidence of fraudulent activity. They thought Mr S had authorised the
transaction because:
He said that his credit card never left his possession and that his PIN was only 
known to him, which he had memorised;
A second transaction was made about 15 minutes after the disputed transaction, 
which Mr S says was genuine; and
The disputed transaction wouldnt necessarily have shown up on Mr Ss account with 
A, as he wouldve needed to make the payment with a card specific to A.
Unhappy with Capital Ones decision, Mr S referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators didnt uphold the complaint. In broad summary, she felt unable to conclude that 
the transaction had been made fraudulently and was persuaded that Mr S likely authorised 
it.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators findings, so he asked for an ombudsman to
consider his case. He reiterated his complaint points. He also added that there would not 
have been enough time for him to make the disputed transaction and then the genuine one 
within 15 minutes. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it, for largely the same reasons as the investigator. Ill 
explain why.
Generally, Capital One can hold Mr S liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised it himself.
Im satisfied by Capital Ones technical evidence that Mr Ss genuine card and PIN were 
used to make the disputed transaction. Ive not seen evidence to suggest that there were
faults with either Capital Ones systems, nor those of A. But, the regulations relevant to this 
case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Capital One to hold Mr S liable. So, I also 
need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr S 
consented to the transaction being made.
Mr S accepts that his credit card was in his possession when the disputed transaction was 
made. He also accepts that the very next transaction made on the same day at a petrol 
station, was genuine. 
The disputed transaction happened at 2.13pm. The following genuine transaction happened 
at 2.28pm.
Having carefully thought about this, I think its unlikely that someone couldve taken Mr Ss 
credit card, used it to make the disputed transaction, and then returned the card to Mr S  all 
within about 15 minutes and without Mr Ss knowledge.
To my mind, it doesnt seem plausible that a third party  who effectively took the risk to
steal Mr Ss credit card  would use the card and then take a further risk trying to return it. It 
seems more likely that such a person would continue using the card until they no longer 
could, and then discard it.
Mr S has questioned the timings of the transactions. That is, he argues that it wouldnt have 
been possible for him to make the disputed transaction and the genuine one within 15 
minutes.
From what Ive seen, there isnt a great distance between where the disputed transaction 
occurred, and the genuine one at the petrol station. So, on balance, I do think its possible 
that both transactions couldve been made within 15 minutes.
In any event, from the evidence Ive seen, the disputed transaction involved the chip of 
Mr Ss credit card being read by A. This means Mr Ss genuine card was used to make this 
transaction. Im particularly persuaded by the fact that Mr S has said his PIN was only known 
to him, as he memorised it. 
Ive considered the screenshot of Mr Ss online account with A, and the chat transcript. 
Having done so, Im not persuaded that these prove the disputed transaction didnt happen. I 
say this because the evidence provided by Capital One clearly shows that a payment of 
£140.00 was made at A on 12 September.
So, taking all the above points together  I find, on balance, that Mr S made or otherwise 
authorised the disputed transaction. It follows that Capital One is not required to refund this 
and any interest that accrued.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman