DRN-3795605
The complaint
Miss J complains that Experian Limited (Experian) failed to remove a county court 
judgement (CCJ) from her credit file when it should have.
What happened
Miss J had a CCJ recorded against her, as a result of an error made by her motor insurance 
provider when dealing with a claim on her behalf, in 2018. In 2020 Miss J became aware of 
the issue when she was declined for a mortgage application. She contacted her insurer and 
it arranged for the CCJ to be removed. 
In late 2020 Miss J became aware the CCJ was still showing on her credit file, her insurer 
told her it had done what it needed to do for the CCJ to be removed and the issue was now 
with Experian. Miss J complained to Experian in March 2021. Experian didnt uphold Miss Js 
complaint  they said they hadnt received any instruction to remove the CCJ from either her 
insurer or the recording office. But they did remove it when she provided evidence from the 
latter. Miss J brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service as she felt 
Experian had caused her a financial loss by leaving the CCJ on her file when it shouldnt 
have been there.
Our investigator upheld Miss Js complaint, in summary she said: It had been identified that 
Experian had been experiencing system issues at the time of the notification to remove the 
CCJ and so it was likely they had been notified and not acted as they should have  she 
recommended Experian pay Miss J £250 in compensation for this.
Experian accepted the investigators findings, but Miss J didnt, she believes the 
compensation she is entitled to should be much higher. She has said that the delay in 
removing the CCJ meant that she was left in a worse financial position as property prices 
rose in that time as did the need for a higher deposit mortgage, meaning she had to save 
more. As well as this Miss J says it was inconvenient for her as some products that may 
have been suitable for her before, had since been withdrawn from the market and by the 
time she was able to progress with her mortgage she couldnt take advantage of them.
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered
everything that both parties have given to me. 
 
Having read and considered the whole file, Ive reached the same outcome as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain, but in doing so Ill keep my 
comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not because I 
havent considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the 
right outcome.
There is no dispute that Experian should have removed the CCJ from Miss Js credit file on 
or shortly after they were asked to in April 2020, so Im only considering the compensation 
awarded for Experians error in not doing so here.
Miss J says she became aware the CCJ was still incorrectly showing on her credit report 
towards the end of 2020. At that time, she went back to her insurer to query this, and it 
pointed her towards Experian. Miss J contacted Experian to raise the issue on 29 March 
2021 and although they initially said they hadnt received the information to remove it, once 
Miss J provided them with the relevant letter, they removed it on 1 April 2021.
Miss J has pointed out that in the time between her originally applying and being declined for 
a mortgage in 2020 (point 1) until her eventual mortgage application acceptance in April 
2021 (point 2), the market for mortgages had changed substantially. Including, products no 
longer being available, the significant rise in house prices and the need for raising a higher 
deposit. 
I accept things will have changed over the period in question, but I cant fairly say that 
Experian stopped Miss J from being able to progress with a house purchase and mortgage 
application for the whole of that time period. This is because at the time Miss J was initially 
turned down for her mortgage application, Experian werent at fault for the CCJ appearing on 
her credit file, it was there because of her insurers error. It became Experians error in April 
2020, when they failed to remove the CCJ from her credit file. But as Miss J says she wasnt 
aware of the CCJ still showing until the later part of 2020. This leads me to believe that its 
more likely than not that Miss J wasnt in the process of applying for a mortgage between 
those two points in time. I say this because if she had been, she would have been aware 
that the CCJ was still showing sooner. 
I think its reasonable to say the housing market and the mortgage market like any other 
market changes on a daily basis, with prices going up or down and products being 
withdrawn, or new ones being brought out. And given there was a number of months 
between point one and point two, its fair to say changes would have taken place across the 
sector. But I think Miss Js position was always going to be different from when she first 
applied for a mortgage at point one. I say this because she didnt move forward with a new 
mortgage application in April 2020, even though she thought things had been put right. She 
waited until much later in 2020, by which the time the markets would have already changed 
and so it follows I cant fairly say this change in her position was due to Experian.
When Miss J brought the matter to Experians attention in March 2021, they misinformed her 
that they hadnt been made aware of the need to remove the CCJ, and this later turned out 
to be incorrect. In fact, the update had been sent through to them, but they had experienced 
a system error, and so they hadnt captured the data or made the change. So, although it 
should have been removed months before, Experian had been unaware of the error until 
Miss J got in touch. And at that point they did get the update done within four days of it being 
brought to their attention. 
I understand Miss Js strength of feeling about this whole matter and I appreciate that there 
was some wasted time where Miss J was understandably taking matters up with her insurer 
as she believed they were at fault. But ultimately, I can only look at Experians actions here 
around the mistake and how they put things right. And while they did have a system error 
which led to the mistake as soon as they were made aware they dealt with it swiftly. Because of this and the time lapse between the mortgage applications I cant fairly say 
Experians error caused Miss J the financial losses she thinks they did. But I do agree that 
the error caused her inconvenience and upset and so I think Experian should pay Miss J 
£250 because of this.
Putting things right
Experian should now pay Miss J £250 to compensate her for the inconvenient caused by its 
error.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Js complaint about 
Experian Limited and now require it to carry out the actions as set out under the Putting 
things right section of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman