DRN-2796622
The complaint
Mr P complains about a county court judgement (CCJ) which was showing on his Experian 
Limited credit report in error.
What happened
Mr P says he noticed, when trying to apply for a mortgage in February 2021, Experian put a 
CCJ on his credit file in 2015. Mr P says this is an error as the CCJ belongs to his father and 
not him. 
Mr P has told us this has had a significant impact on him as hes had many credit cards 
rejected and has been given loans at an increased rate. Mr Ps also explained this issue has 
impacted him receiving a bonus at work and couldve put him at risk of losing his job. Mr P 
has asked that Experian compensate him for the loss and stress this issue has caused him. 
Mr P says he also believes there should be a change to Experians internal system that 
requires a date of birth to be inputted when adding a CCJ to someones credit file.
Experian apologised and explained this error happened because of the similarity in Mr Ps 
details with his fathers and lack of date of birth on the CCJ meant their system couldnt 
differentiate the CCJ from Mr Ps details. Experian explained as the CCJ was issued by the 
court, they werent responsible for the lack of date of birth on the CCJ. Experian confirmed 
they removed the CCJ from Mr Ps credit report and as an apology, they say they refunded 
him one months subscription fee which was £14.99. Experian also compensated Mr P £150 
in recognition of the inconvenience caused. Experian said they werent able to increase the 
compensatory amount as Mr P hadnt provided evidence of the financial loss he says he 
suffered.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps concerns. In summary, she explained there wasnt 
enough evidence to suggest the CCJ was the sole reason Mr P wasnt granted clearance 
with his employer (which is a process designed for Mr Ps employer to carry out background 
checks. Mr P says if the checks were successful, this would allow him to get a bonus). So, 
she thought the compensation amount offered by Experian was fair. Mr P didnt agree. He 
said the CCJ most likely affected the result of his clearance and therefore, wanted more 
compensation for the impact this has had on him. So, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im really sorry to hear of the distress and worry this has caused Mr P, its disappointing to 
hear this has happened. Its clear theres been an error here which Experian have 
acknowledged. So, whats left for me to decide is whether Experian have done enough to put 
things right for Mr P.
Mr P has provided us with a letter from his employer about a security clearance process he 
went through at work and was unsuccessful for. The letter goes on to explain that his 
employer wasnt able to disclose the reason behind their decision and they also werent able 
to provide any further information on their decision - other than they were unable to grant Mr 
P clearance.
 
Ive looked at the overview guide Mr P has provided which shows whats taken into 
consideration and also the types of things that are checked by his employer when going 
through the clearance process. And I can see there are several different things listed in the 
guide. I appreciate Mr P says he thinks its likely his application for clearance was declined 
because of the CCJ, but its clear from the guide hes provided that there are several 
different factors taken into account, not only financial background. I havent seen any other 
evidence to persuade me he was declined for this application and therefore denied a bonus, 
as a direct result of the CCJ. So, I dont think I can say for certain that the CCJ was the sole 
reason Mr P wasnt granted the clearance.
Mr P says he also couldve lost his job as a result of this error, which caused him a lot of 
stress. In reaching my conclusion, I dont wish in any way to downplay or disregard
the stress Mr P says this has caused him. But from what I understand, Mr P hasnt lost his 
job, and I can only look at what has happened, not what could have happened.
Mr P also says this error has impacted him in other ways  he says he has been declined 
several credit cards in the past and that hes had loans at an increased rate. I can 
understand the frustration this wouldve caused Mr P, however, there are a number of 
factors lenders take into account when deciding whether to lend or not. And I havent been 
given any direct evidence which leads me to conclude that the declined credit card 
applications and loans provided at a higher rate were because of the CCJ which was 
recorded in error against Mr P. 
I can see from the information provided by Experian that they removed the CCJ within a day 
of being informed it was incorrectly appearing on Mr Ps credit file which is what I wouldve 
expected them to do. I know Mr P says Experian should change their internal system to 
allow for a CCJ to be added to a credit file only once a date of birth has been inputted. As 
Experian have explained, a CCJ is issued by a court so they arent responsible for the lack 
of date of birth information. In any case, its not my role to direct Experian to change their 
internal systems or processes.
Having considered everything carefully, I think the compensation offered by Experian is fair 
in the circumstances of this complaint. I say this because its clear Mr P has been caused 
inconvenience and worry from finding out a CCJ had been added to his credit file in error. 
But I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that the impact Mr P describes of, has 
been a direct result of the CCJ being incorrectly applied. So, I wont be asking Experian to 
do anything more.
I appreciate this may come as a disappointment to Mr P as I know he wanted more 
compensation, but I hope my explanation helps him to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Leanne McEvoyOmbudsman