DRN-3393409
The complaint
Mr V complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has been unable to find a payment he made 
into his account.
What happened
Mr V says he transferred just under £16,000 to his Barclays account from a business I will 
call N in 2011. He says he recently realised the money hadnt reached his Barclays 
account and would like it refunded.
Barclays says it has searched for the money but cant find it. It says the money didnt reach 
Mr Vs account and he will need to go back to N to ask it to trace the money.
Mr V brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Barclays had searched for the money and thought it more likely the 
money had been returned to N. The investigator thought there may have been an issue with 
a digit on the account number Mr V asked N to send the money to.
Mr V doesnt accept that view and says his complaint against N wasnt upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr V will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate his frustration in not 
receiving his money.
I have looked carefully at the transfer form that was completed to transfer the money from N 
to Barclays. I can see that the sort code is correct but there is what appears to be a 4 
recorded on the form when the correct account number should be 6. I dont think it clear if 
Mr V or N completed the form but Im satisfied that Barclays didnt complete that form and so 
I cant fairly hold it responsible for that mistake. I can see that Barclays has said that the 
account recorded on the form doesnt exist and so I think it likely on balance that the money 
would have been sent back to N.
I appreciate that Mr Vs complaint against N wasnt upheld but I dont think N was aware of 
the potential mistake. I hope N will look again at Mr Vs complaint, but that is something he 
will need to ask it to consider in the light of the account mistake.
Im satisfied that Barclays has fairly searched its records for Mr Vs money and has tried to 
help him. It follows that I dont think Barclays has Mr Vs money or can do anything further to 
help him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman