DRN-3054726
The complaint
Mr N and Mrs N complain that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance (BPF) paid funds to their supplier prematurely and failed to respond to a 
claim they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974).
Mrs N has benefitted from Mr Ns representation in this complaint but as Mrs N is named on 
the finance agreement and is BPFs customer, I will only refer to her in this decision. I mean 
no disrespect to Mr N when doing so.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, through a fixed 
sum loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a 
section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain 
circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the 
credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs N made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Release of funds
The terms of the loan Mrs N had said that once the agreement was signed by her and 
authorised by the bank and after the goods had been received, the bank would pay the 
supplier. So, regardless of the quality of the goods, once they were supplied BPF were 
committed to pay the supplier. I therefore dont think BPF were wrong to do so.
Mrs N still had a like claim through them for breach of contract on the basis that the goods 
were not of satisfactory quality.
Section 75 claim
BPF eventually responded to Mrs Ns section 75 claim. It took several months to do so but 
there is no time limit in which a section 75 claim needs to be considered, as investigations 
are often time consuming.
The final response from BPF explains that they are prepared to honour the claim.
Mrs N says that BPF havent provided sufficient compensation and, in particular I can see 
that she disputes the date upon which the business sent the final response.
I can see the confusion around the final response date. For instance, BPF refer in that letter 
to correspondence received from the supplier on 15 October but the letter is dated 10 
October before that correspondence could have been received. But I dont think theres 
evidence the letter was fraudulently dated and that BPF have tried to deceive Mrs N. I think 
its more likely, if there was an error, that it was an administrative one. I say that because I 
can see BPF have honoured Mrs Ns complaint and that they have offered compensation of 
£100 in total for any delays or inconvenience. There seems little reason in those 
circumstances to delay the conveyance of that message.
In the circumstances I think the £100 compensation is sufficient. Im not asking BPF to take 
any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman