DRN-2599124
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, wasnt 
of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr C under a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Finance that he electronically signed in September 2019. He had some issues with the cars 
windows and the car was repaired by the dealer  some oil leaks were also repaired - but 
the issue with the windows has continued. 
Mr C complained to Mercedes-Benz Finance and said that he wanted to reject the car. It 
said that it was unable to support a rejection but it offered to pay Mr C a goodwill gesture of 
£100 as an apology for the issues that hed experienced. Mr C didnt accept its offer and 
complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr C. He recommended that 
Mercedes-Benz Finance should: end the agreement and collect the car; refund Mr Cs 
deposit of £4,501, with interest; pay him £100 for the trouble and upset that hed been 
caused; and ensure that Mr Cs credit file is amended to show the agreement as settled or 
remove the information from his credit file.
Mercedes-Benz Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It 
says, in summary that it doesnt agree that the issues with the car would have reduced the 
car below a quality that Mr C would expect  the oil leak was minor in nature, went 
undetected by Mr C and was repaired without any additional inconvenience to him  and that 
a rejection of the car is disproportionate. It has also explained in detail why it considers that 
its unfair for it to be required to refund to Mr C the full deposit that he paid for the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mercedes-Benz Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that 
it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr C - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the car that was supplied to Mr C was a new car with a price of £31,722 and I 
consider that it was reasonable for him to expect that it would be free from even 
minor defects;
its clear that has been an issue with the windows on the car that was supplied to 
Mr C and repairs have been attempted by the dealer but the issue continues  and 
the dealer has also identified some oil leaks from the car which have been repaired;
Mr C returned the car to the dealer in March 2020 because of an issue with the 
windows  which the dealer said had been fixed  but Mr C says that the issue 
continues;
he returned the car to the dealer again for repairs in December 2020 but the issue 
has re-occurred (which he says is the fifth time), hes provided a photo which he says 
shows the issue with the window and the dealer confirmed in January 2021 that the 
issue with the windows was ongoing;
I dont consider that its reasonable to expect a new car that cost £31,722 to have an 
ongoing issue with its windows that have continued after repairs have been 
attempted; and
I consider it to be more likely than not that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when 
it was supplied to Mr C because of that issue and that it would be fair and reasonable 
in these circumstances for him to be able to reject the car.
Putting things right
I find that Mercedes-Benz Finance should end the hire purchase agreement and arrange for 
the car to be collected from Mr C  both at no cost to him. I find that it should also ensure 
that Mr Cs credit file is amended to show the hire purchase agreement as settled or remove 
all information about the agreement from his credit file.
The agreement shows that Mr C paid a deposit of £4,501 for the car. Its clear that 
Mercedes-Benz Finance feels strongly that it shouldnt be required to refund the full amount 
of that deposit and I have carefully considered the explanation that it has given. But in 
circumstances such as these, its not practicable to put Mr C in the position that he would 
have been in had the agreement been properly performed - so I consider that the 
appropriate remedy is to put him back in the position that he would have been in had he not 
entered into the agreement (with him paying for the use that he had from the car). That 
includes refunding the deposit that he paid for the car so that, if he chooses to do so, he can 
use it for a deposit on a replacement car. For those reasons I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance to refund to Mr C the deposit that he paid for the car, 
with interest. 
Mr C has been able to use the car and Im not persuaded that the issues with it will have 
affected his use and enjoyment of the car enough to justify a refund of any of the monthly 
payments that hes made under the agreement. I consider that its fair and reasonable for 
Mercedes-Benz Finance to keep those payments as payment for the use that hes had from 
the car. 
These events will have caused some distress and inconvenience for Mr C. I find that it would 
also be fair and reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance to pay him £100 to compensate him 
for that distress and inconvenience.
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and I order Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Mr C  both at no cost to him.
2. Refund to Mr C the deposit that he paid for the car.
3. Pay interest on that deposit at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
4. Ensure that the hire purchase agreement is marked as settled on Mr Cs credit 
file or that it removes all information about the agreement from his credit file.
5. Pay £100 to Mr C to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Mercedes-Benz Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 3 above. Mercedes-Benz Finance must give Mr C a certificate 
showing how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman