DRN-3299218
The complaint
Mr N complained about Zenith Insurance plc. He isnt happy about the way it dealt with a 
claim under his motor insurance policy and about the valuation it provided for his car.
What happened
Mr N made a claim under his insurance policy. But when he made the claim he felt Zenith 
delayed in dealing with the claim and that the valuation of his car was low. Mr N also felt that 
he shouldnt have had to pay the remainder of his premium or the cost of changing his 
cherished number plate. So, he complained to Zenith.
Zenith explained how it had valued his car and it felt it had offered a fair market value. It did 
accept its communication and service could have been better. And so it apologised and 
waived the storage costs that Mr N had incurred at the garage before it became responsible 
for the claim. As Mr N remained unhappy he complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr N but didnt uphold his complaint. Initially she 
asked Zenith to pay an additional amount of compensation for the poor service it provided. 
But when Zenith explained that it had waived the storage costs Mr N owed to the garage 
(amounting to £288) she thought Zenith had acted fairly. She also explained to Mr N that she 
had checked the valuation guides and thought Zenith had offered a fair market value of his 
car.
Mr N didnt agree, he thought Zenith should pay him additional compensation and didnt 
agree that he was responsible for any of the original storage costs. So, the matter has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr N, but Ill explain why.
I know Mr N believes that he shouldnt have to pay the remainder of his premium but, as our 
investigator explained, once a claim is made under the policy then the full premium for the 
year is due. And any costs incurred in transferring his cherished number plate isnt a matter 
for his insurer and the costs involved are paid to a government agency by the holder of the 
number plate. 
In relation to the valuation of Mr Ns car I can understand why he feels his car is worth more 
than Zenith offered him, and I understand the car was of sentimental value. But this service 
has an established approach to valuation cases like Mr Ns. When looking at the valuation 
placed on a car by an insurance company I consider the approach they have adopted. And 
decide whether the valuation is fair in all the circumstances. 
It isnt the role of this service to come to an exact valuation of a consumers car. But we do 
look to see if insurers have acted reasonably in looking to offer a fair market value of the car. 
I pay attention to the various trade guides used for valuing cars. And I look at any other 
evidence provided by both sides. This evidence might include advertisements for the sale of 
similar cars. But I place less weight on these than on the trade guides, as cars dont normally 
sell for the price at which they are advertised, and the trade guides give an up to date guide 
of the value of the car in question. The condition of the car at the time of the incident is also 
an important factor to consider. And I must emphasise that I will only order a business to 
increase its valuation if I consider it is unfair.
Zenith looked at the various valuation guides in forming the market value of Mr Ns car. And 
our investigator also used various valuation guides and came to a similar suggested guide 
price as Zenith so I cant say it has acted unreasonably here. Valuing second-hand cars is 
far from an exact science and it isnt my role to value Mr Ns car. Im just looking to see if 
Zenith has acted reasonably in providing a fair market value of his car and I think it has. 
Finally, it is accepted that Zeniths service and communication wasnt good enough here. But 
I feel that Zenith looked to put things right in a fair and reasonable way by waiving the 
storage costs Mr N incurred, which it had paid on his behalf, before he chose to make a 
claim through his insurer. Mr N chose initially not to make a claim under his insurance policy 
and looked to use a claims management company in order to avoid making a claim under 
his insurance policy. I know Mr N disputes this, but I feel it is clear from his initial calls that 
was his chosen path. So, I think that Zenith has acted reasonably here by paying the storage 
costs for Mr N and by waiving his excess that was also due under the policy.
Given all of this, Im satisfied Zenith has looked to value Mr Ns car in a fair and reasonable 
way and looked to pay him the market value of his car in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. And I think its offer to waive the storage costs Mr N incurred (£288) seems fair. 
So, although I know Mr N will be disappointed with my decision Im not upholding his 
complaint.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman