DRN-3502062
The complaint
Mr S on behalf of T and T, complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined a claim 
under T and Ts business protection insurance policy.
What happened
T and T has the benefit of a business protection insurance policy. Mr S made a claim on that 
policy to cover T and Ts losses arising out of the closure of the business from March 2020 
due to the national government-imposed lockdown intended to control the spread of Covid 
19.
AXA declined the claim because it said T and T didnt have cover for the losses it was 
claiming for. Mr S didnt agree. He said T and T was entitled to recover the losses it was 
claiming for under its business protection policy and that this is what was decided by the 
Supreme Court in the FCAs test case brought in respect of business interruption insurance 
policies. He also said that AXA were acting in breach of contract by rejecting the claim and 
that he wasnt convinced AXA were applying the correct policy terms because the ones 
applicable to the year T and T were claiming for were different to those that AXA were 
quoting. 
Our investigator considered T and Ts complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. 
She said there was no cover available under the policy for the difficult situation T and T 
found itself in and that the Supreme Courts judgment didnt apply to the terms applicable to 
T and Ts policy. She invited Mr S to provide any policy terms he considered were applicable 
to the policy year T and T was claiming for if he considered they were different to the ones 
AXA were relying on. Mr S doesnt agree with the investigators findings, so the matter has 
been put to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact lockdown has had on T and T. But 
for the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain 
why.
The type of cover T and T is looking to claim on is business interruption insurance. There are 
a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add ons. The starting
point is to consider the specific policy T and T took out. Ive looked at the policy AXA have 
told me is applicable for the period T and T are claiming. I havent seen anything in response 
to the investigators view in the form of alternative policy terms or any further submissions 
from Mr S that the ones being relied on by AXA are wrong. So, Ive proceeded on the basis 
that the ones I refer to below are the correct terms. 
Ive considered every aspect of the policy T and T holds with AXA to determine whether 
there are any sections that would require AXA to meet the claim like the one T and T is 
making.
Mr S has told us that T and T wasnt able to operate due to the government-imposed 
lockdown. The policy provides cover for several things including disease, denial of access 
cover and business interruption. Ive considered each of them below.
Disease cover
The government-imposed lockdown was intended to control the Covid 19 pandemic. 
Because of this, the most likely section of the policy that would respond is the section 
relating to human infections or contagious diseases. That section covers:
interruption of or interference with the business during the indemnity period following
1) the occurrence of any of the following specified human infectious or human contagious 
diseases suffered by any person at your premises or within a one mile radius of it
acute encephalitis, acute poliomyelitis, anthrax, chicken pox, cholera, diphtheria, dysentery, 
legionellosis, legionnaires disease, leprosy, leptospirosis, malaria, measles, meningococcal 
infection, mumps, opthalmia neonatorum, paratyphoid fever, plague, rabies, rubella, scarlet 
fever, smallpox, tetanus, tuberculosis, typhoid fever, viral hepatitis, whooping cough and 
yellow fever.
Having considered the list of illnesses set out, Im not persuaded this section of the policy
provides T and T, with cover in the current circumstances as Covid 19 isnt one of the 
specified illnesses. When reaching this finding Im mindful that Covid 19 wasnt something 
AXA might have known about when the policy was drafted, but I dont think that changes 
anything. Thats because there are other policies that do provide cover for the present 
pandemic. These tend to be where they cover all notifiable diseases, which are set out and 
updated on a Government defined list. T and Ts policy sets out a list of the illnesses which 
are covered by the policy and there is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides 
cover for other illnesses, including any new illnesses which might emerge. I think the 
purpose and effect of the policy is to provide cover in the event of these particular illnesses. 
There are many potential illnesses that the policy does not cover. And although Ive 
considered that the policy doesnt specifically exclude Covid-19, I dont think it can or should 
fairly be read as covering any and all illnesses that fall outside of the defined list set out 
above.
Denial of access cover & business interruption
This denial of access section of the policy says:
We will pay you for any loss insured by this section resulting from interruption of or 
interference with the business as a result of damage to property within a one mile radius of 
your premises which prevents or hinders the access to or the use of your premises whether 
your premises or your property within it suffers damage or not. 
And the business interruption section of the policy says:
If any property used by you at your premises for the purpose of the business suffers
damage during the period of insurance, and as a result your business is interrupted
or interfered with
Damage is defined as:Accidental loss or destruction or damage caused by
1) an insured Cause under the Buildings, Contents or Business equipment section
2) damage to the shop front where shown as covered in your schedule
Having reviewed the policy, I cant fairly say that Covid-19 falls into any of the insured perils 
and theres nothing in the definition of Damage itself that would extend to covering damage 
caused to the business by way of an illness or disease such as Covid-19, or even a 
government-imposed act. Rather it refers to physical damage in different shapes and forms. 
Whilst it might have led to a significant loss in revenue, Im not persuaded that Covid 19 
caused any damage to T and Ts property. So, I dont think cover is available under this 
section of the policy.
I accept that the denial of access section of the policy means that damage doesnt need to 
be to T and Ts property, but rather to property within a one-mile radius of its premises. As 
Covid-19 wasnt something that caused damage to property within this radius, I cant say this 
section affords any cover either. 
Finally I know Mr S feels strongly that the outcome of the Supreme Courts judgment in 
relation to the FCAs test case supports T and Ts position but as our investigator explained, 
this judgment does not relate to policies like T and Ts. Thats because T and Ts policy is 
one which contains a specific list of illnesses. So, whilst I appreciate that Mr S has strong 
views about this, I cant say that they are applicable to T and Ts policy.
In her view, the investigator referred to the case of Rockcliffe Hall Limited v Travelers 
Insurance Company Limited [2021]. She pointed out that the High Court differentiated 
policies with specified lists of illnesses from those considered in the FCA test case. I know 
Mr S doesnt feel this case is relevant to his claim because it concerns a different type of 
business, but I dont think that makes any difference. And as the investigator pointed out, 
this Service has an established approach to policies like T and Ts. And there is nothing that 
Mr S has said that persuades me that this approach is not applicable in this case. 
Overall and for the reasons set out above, I dont think AXA acted unfairly by turning down
T and Ts claim for cover. I know Mr S feels T and Ts policy should have covered it for the 
position it finds itself in but I hope Ive provided him with a thorough explanation of why it 
doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold T and Ts complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S, on behalf of 
T and T to accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman