DRN-3234887
The complaint
Mr J complains that HSBC UK Bank PLC unfairly declined his loan application  and that 
they wouldnt tell him the reason for this. 
What happened
On 19 April 2021 Mr J applied to HSBC for a £10,000 personal loan. But his application was 
declined. 
Mr J complained to HSBC about their decision. In response, they confirmed the loan had 
been declined because Mr J didnt meet their lending criteria at the time. They said they 
werent obliged to give him a more specific reason - and that they dont divulge their lending 
criteria because its commercially sensitive. They said they hadnt taken his savings into 
account, because savings can be spent at any time. 
Dissatisfied, Mr J brought his complaint to our service. He said he clearly had the ability to 
repay this loan. He said he felt embarrassed and demeaned by HSBCs decision, which he 
believed to have in fact been based on his age and part-time employment status. 
Mr J told us about his circumstances at the time of his application. He had around £6,500 in 
his current account and £14,500 in his flexi-loan account. His mortgage had a relatively 
small outstanding balance of around £3,000 against a property valued at around £260,000. 
He had a credit card with a limit of £10,200, the balance of which was paid in full every 
month. He had income of over £12,000 per year from part-time employment and over 
£22,000 per year from his pension. Hes told us that he was left with a disposable income of 
over £1,700 each month.
Our investigator asked HSBC about their lending decision. HSBC said theyre not an ageist 
bank. They explained that Mr Js application had been declined due to a reduction theyd 
seen in his income in November 2020 and January 2021. They said their checking process 
was intended to identify applications from customers with a sudden loss of income. But that 
further investigation had shown the apparent drop in Mr Js income to have been due to 
irregular timing of his pension payments. They said theyd now refined their strategy to take 
account of this situation.
The investigator didnt think it was unreasonable for HSBC to refine their lending strategy to 
reduce the chances of this sort of situation happening again. He said he couldnt fairly ask 
them to do anything more to resolve Mr Js complaint. 
Mr J didnt accept HSBCs explanation. He said that, for more than 10 years prior to his 
application, his pension had been paid on the first of the month and his salary on the 
eighteenth. He said this only changed if those dates fell on a weekend or bank holiday, in 
which case it was paid on the previous working day. He believed the majority of workers 
would fall foul of HSBCs protocol, as they were likely to be paid in the same way. 
Mr J said his bank statements were produced on the third day of each month  and that his 
statements for November 2020 and January 2021 both showed nearly £2,500 paid in. He 
questioned why HSBC had instead chosen to base their review on calendar months. And 
why they hadnt taken into account his higher income during December, February, March 
and April. He remained suspicious that HSBC had a different motive for declining his 
application. So, the case has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fortunately, HSBCs decision didnt cause Mr J financial hardship. Hes told us that he had 
sufficient savings for the purchase he wanted to make at the time. But I can understand his 
frustration at having to dip into those savings sooner than he planned due to the loan 
application being declined. 
HSBC have told us that this was due to an apparent reduction in his income in November 
2020 and January 2021. Theyve said this happened because of the timing of the pension 
payments received into Mr Js bank account, which sometimes fell into the following month.
Mr J doesnt find HSBCs explanation credible. He questions whether their decision-making 
program was unable to deal with salary payments changing due to weekends and bank 
holidays. He feels HSBC hadnt handled his application with due diligence  and that the 
way theyd applied their policy in this case left a lot to be desired. But he acknowledges that, 
if HSBC have now changed their policy to be more inclusive, that can only be for the good. 
I think its important to explain that, as a general rule, we wouldnt comment on HSBCs 
lending criteria. Thats not part of our role. Financial businesses are entitled to set their own 
criteria as to how much money - and under what circumstances - theyre prepared to lend. 
And theyre entitled to decide what processes theyll put in place to check whether applicants 
meet those criteria. 
But I understand Mr Js concern at the possibility that his application might have been 
declined due to his age or employment status, rather than affordability. So, as well as 
looking to see whether HSBC followed their internal process in this case, Ive also 
considered whether that could lead to discrimination against certain applicants due to their 
age. 
I want to reassure Mr J that Ive looked into the points hes made. Based on the evidence 
Ive seen, Im satisfied that HSBC processed his application in accordance with the lending 
criteria they had in place at the time. And that it was rejected due to a drop in income having 
been highlighted on two occasions. Ive seen no evidence to suggest HSBCs decision was 
influenced by Mr Js age or employment status. I cant say they treated him any less 
favourably than younger customers, or those in full-time employment. 
HSBC have told us that they review their credit policy methods regularly to make sure they 
continue to be fair and unbiased. And that theyve refined their strategy to take account of 
the situation that arose in this case. I consider that to be a reasonable action for them to 
have taken. And, as Im satisfied that HSBC havent treated Mr J unfairly, I wont direct them 
to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman