DRN-2162958
The complaint
Ms H and Mr H complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded part of the 
premiums they paid for a travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms H and Mr H bought a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. 
The policy was purchased on 26 July 2019, to cover a trip from 29 March 2020 to 2 July 
2020. Ms H and Mr H paid £3,598.46 for the insurance, which covered Mr Hs declared 
medical conditions and included a discount of £190.87.
On 16 March 2020, Mr H contacted Great Lakes to ask for guidance as his holiday had been 
cancelled due to Covid-19. Great Lakes told Mr H he should seek a refund for his holiday 
through his tour operator and said it could amend the dates of Ms H and Mr Hs insurance 
policy if the dates of the holiday could be changed. 
Mr H contacted Great Lakes again on 21 March 2020 and his travel insurance policy was 
cancelled. Great Lakes said Ms H and Mr H werent entitled to any refund of the premiums 
theyd paid for the policy but offered them a pro-rata voucher for £931.48 which could be 
used to buy a travel insurance policy in the future. 
Unhappy, Ms H and Mr H complained to Great Lakes and then brought their complaint to our 
service. 
In the meantime, Mr H used part of the voucher to pay for the renewal of his European 
annual multi-trip insurance policy. There is a remaining balance of £416.17 on the voucher, 
to be used within the next 36 months. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She concluded that Ms H and Mr H werent 
entitled to a refund of any premiums under either industry guidelines or their policy terms 
and conditions. She said Great Lakes had gone beyond what it was required to do by 
offering Ms H and Mr H a voucher reflecting the cost of their unused period of cover. 
Ms H and Mr H didnt accept our investigators opinion, so the complaint has been referred 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, has set out rules and 
guidelines about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are set out in the 
Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says certain insurance contracts have a minimum cooling off period of 14 days for a 
consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This is called the right to 
cancel. If a consumer is entitled to cancel their policy, they can be required to pay for the 
service actually provided by the insurer while the policy was in force. 
The terms and conditions of Ms H and Mr Hs insurance policy with Great Lakes outline their 
cancellation rights under their contract. These say:
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or 
receipt of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any 
premium you have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or 
have made, or intend to make a claim. 
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no 
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional 
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us 
declining to cover your medical conditions. 
Mr H says he never cancelled this policy. Great Lakes notes show the policy was cancelled 
when Mr H contacted it on 21 March 2020 to ask what would happen to the single trip policy, 
given that his and Ms Hs holiday had been cancelled. I dont think it was unreasonable of 
Great Lakes to treat Ms H and Mr Hs policy as having been cancelled by them on this date. 
The alternative was for Great Lakes to allow the policy to continue when there was no 
ongoing risk to be covered, as Ms H and Mr Hs trip hadnt been rescheduled and was no 
longer taking place, and I think it would have been unreasonable for Great Lakes to have 
allowed this to happen. 
I understand Ms H and Mr Hs planned trip  and, therefore, their need for this insurance 
policy - changed due to circumstances outside of their control, and that Mr H considers his 
policy was invalidated. There isnt a specific provision in this policy addressing the situation 
where external circumstances outside of the insurer and the policyholders control mean the 
cover is no longer useful going forward. But it isnt reasonable or practical to expect the 
terms and conditions of an insurance policy to cover every eventuality, and I dont think its 
unfair for Great Lakes to treat Ms H and Mr Hs circumstances as falling within the 
cancellation provisions set out in their policy wording. 
Ms H and Mr H bought their policy on 26 July 2019. The policy was cancelled on 21 March 
2020, which is more than 14 days later. This means I dont think Ms H and Mr H have a right 
to cancel and receive a refund of any premiums under industry guidelines, nor do they have 
the right to cancel and receive a refund under the terms and conditions of their insurance 
policy.
The policy terms and conditions give Great Lakes discretion to refund the premium to a 
policyholder if a policy is cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off period in exceptional 
circumstances. There dont appear to be any exceptional circumstances of the type listed in 
the policy terms and conditions in this case, so Im satisfied Great Lakes has exercised its 
discretion in a fair and reasonable way. 
However, despite this, Great Lakes offered Ms H and Mr H a voucher for £931.48 to be used 
on a future travel insurance policy. The voucher has already partially been used. 
I understand Mr H has queried how Great Lakes calculated the value of this voucher. He 
says any pre-travel risk carried by Great Lakes is minimal and the bulk of the risk occurs 
once a trip begins. But this isnt how Ms H and Mr Hs policy works. Great Lakes doesnt break the premium for the policy down into pre-travel cancellation and 
post-departure cover. Instead, the premium charged is split equally across the whole period 
of cover. 
An insurer is entitled to decide the way it calculates the premiums charged taking into 
account factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment of the likelihood of 
claims arising and its own commercial interests, as long as it treats its customers fairly. 
Based on the explanations that Great Lakes has provided about its reasons for calculating 
the premiums in the way it does, Im satisfied it hasnt treated Ms H and Mr H unfairly or any 
differently to other customers in similar circumstances. 
The premium which Ms H and Mr H paid for this policy was for a period of approximately 343 
days from 26 July 2019 until 2 July 2020. 
Ms H and Mr H werent just insured for the dates they were travelling. The price set by Great 
Lakes also covered Ms H and Mr H for cancellation cover from 26 July 2019. So, the 
premium Ms H and Mr H paid covered the risk of them having to cancel their holiday due to, 
for example, one of them falling ill or Mr H falling ill with a declared pre-existing medical 
condition. So, as Great Lakes was covering the risk of Ms H and Mr H making a successful 
cancellation claim under the policy from 26 July 2019 until 21 March 2020, its fair that Ms H 
and Mr H should pay the proportion of the premiums relating to that risk. 
Ive considered the formula which Great Lakes has used to calculate the value of the 
voucher given to Ms H and Mr H. I think this formula is a reasonable one, and the value of 
the voucher equates to the premiums equivalent to 104 unused days of cover from 21 March 
2020 until the planned end date of the trip on 2 July 2020. The voucher is valid for 36 
months and is transferrable.  
Im sorry to disappoint Ms H and Mr H. Ive taken into account what Mr H has said about the 
exceptional circumstances surrounding Covid-19 and the fact that the premium paid was a 
particularly large one. But Ms H and Mr H arent entitled to any premium refund from Great 
Lakes and the voucher which Great Lakes has offered goes beyond what it is required to do. 
Based on the information available to me, I dont think Mr H held any duplicate cover with 
Great Lakes. The annual multi-trip policy which he holds appears to offer European cover 
only and wouldnt have covered a trip of the duration he had planned with Ms H. The fact 
that Mr H may not have made any claims under other policies isnt relevant to whether he 
and Ms H are due any refund under this single trip insurance policy. 
This means Im not upholding Ms H and Mr Hs complaint and I wont be asking Great Lakes 
to do anything further. 
If Mr H has any concerns about any other travel insurance policies he holds, hed need to 
raise these with the insurers directly before this service could get involved. This is because 
the Financial Ombudsman Service has no power to consider a complaint unless the 
business concerned has been given the opportunity to look into the matter first. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms H and Mr Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman