DRN-3991331
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with how Arval UK Limited (Arval) handled his request to voluntary 
terminate a hire agreement. Mr M has been represented by Mrs M in this complaint. For 
ease of reference Ill refer only to Mr M.
What happened
In September 2017, Mr M was supplied with a new car through a hire agreement with Arval. 
The agreement was for 36 months, with an initial payment of £868.79, followed by 35 
monthly payments of £289.60.
In July 2020 Mr M told Arval he wanted to terminate the agreement early. He said he was 
told the fee for early termination fee would be £144.80. He said they contacted him 12 
months later and charged him further fees. He said he had never been made aware of these 
fees. He said Arval continued to pursue him for the fees, after theyd admitted they shouldnt 
have been charged.
Mr M said that he was happy to pay the early termination fee, but not the final months rental 
hed been charged. He said this was because hed returned all the relevant documentation 
on time, and he said Arval had processed this.
He was unhappy that it took Arval too long to admit they had issued an incorrect charge, and 
that they did not acknowledge the impact on him of their threats of third party debt recovery. 
Hes unhappy that they took more than 12 months to arrange settlement of the account. He 
felt that they should waive the remaining charges due to the bad practice and their mis-
treatment of him as a customer.
Arval said they had issued an incorrect invoice. They said they had now issued a credit to 
off-set the incorrect invoice, leaving Mr M with the original amount of £144.80 to pay. They 
said hed since paid this. Theyd also apologised to Mr M in November 2021 for not 
responding to the complaint hed raised in August 2021.
Mr M brought his complaint to this service in October 2021 as he was frustrated with Arvals 
lack of response, and they were now threatening debt recovery action.
Our investigator considered it was reasonable for Arval to charge Mr M £144.80 to terminate 
the agreement early.
He didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint about being invoiced incorrectly, and the length of time it 
took Arval to resolve this part of the complaint. He said this was because our service cant 
consider complaints about complaint handling.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He said he did not dispute that an early termination 
fee was due. But he was unhappy with how Arval pursued him for an incorrect amount, their 
failure to correct this, and threatening to pass his details to a debt collector. He said this had 
a significant impact on him, especially due to the nature of his work. 
Because Mr M didnt agree with the investigator, the matter was passed to me to make
a final decision. I sent Mr M and Arval a provisional decision on 27 January 2023. In this 
decision I explained why I thought the complaint should be upheld. Heres what I said:
I have reached a different outcome to our investigator. If I havent commented on any 
specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good
industry practice at the time. Mr M was supplied with a car under a hire agreement. This is a
regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about
it.
Mr M now says that he does not dispute that an early termination fee is due. So I wont be
considering that in this decision, other than to say I think the fee theyve charged is fair and
reasonable. I say that because it was clearly explained to Mr M when he asked about
terminating the hire agreement early, and the amount theyve charged him doesnt
disproportionately compensate Arval for the loss they may have suffered from the contract
ending early.
The key issue I have to consider is the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr M. Our
investigator said he didnt consider this matter as he considered Arvals error and failure to
resolve the matter speedily to be complaint handling. I disagree.
The rules covering what I can consider are set out in the Financial Conduct Authority
Handbook. The rules, allow me to look at a complaint if it relates to an act or omission by
a firm (in this case Arval) in carrying on one or more of the regulated or other covered
activities, or any ancillary activity carried on by the firm in connection with them.
Carrying on an activity is described in the rules as, the manner in which a respondent has
administered its business, provided that the business is an activity subject to the Financial
Ombudsman Services jurisdiction.
In this complaint, Arval issued invoices to Mr M for a debt owed under the consumer hire
agreement, and continued to pursue him for those debts. Ive explained above why I can
look at complaints involving this type of agreement. So Im satisfied this complaint is not 
about Arvals handling of Mr Ms complaint  its about their pursuit of a debt due under the
agreement, and thats an act they undertook when carrying out the regulated activity.
Mr M said this had a significant impact on him. I understand why. Hed been told that the
cost of terminating the agreement early would be £144.80. And he proceeded on that basis.
Yet 12 months later he received a notification that this amount had increased to £446.40.
Mr M challenged this. He says Arval told him the charges looked to be incorrect but that hed
have to complain in writing. I dont have any evidence from Arval that confirms whether or
not this was the guidance that he was given.But Arval has acknowledged that they didnt respond to his written complaint he submitted
on 2 August 2021. And I can see that they wrote to him on two occasions and emailed him
on at least four occasions between 28 June 2021 and 18 October 2021  all of this
correspondence said he owed the higher amount of £446.40.
The letter Arval sent on 18 October 2021 threatened Mr M with third party debt recovery
action if he didnt respond. I can understand how distressing this would have been for Mr M.
And it would have been frustrating since he had disputed the amount with them for more
than two months.
Arval didnt issue their final response to Mr M until 4 November 2021, two weeks after hed
told them hed raised a complaint with this service. This was the first time theyd formally
acknowledged that the correct amount he owed was £144.80.
The rules I referred to above give me the power to make a money award for distress and
inconvenience arising from a firms error.
Ive explained above why I think Mr M wouldve been upset by the continued communication
from Arval, pursuing him for an amount that he knew to be wrong, and then threatening debt
recovery action. Ive received no evidence or comments about why Mr M didnt pay the
original amount when it was due in September 2020  if hed done that then Id expect that
this issue wouldnt have arisen.
Arval would have had to contact Mr M about the outstanding debt because he didnt pay the
debt in October 2020, but they sent him an invoice for the wrong amount, and theyve
accepted that was the case. They continued to pursue him for a number of weeks after hed
made them aware of the error, escalating to the threat of passing the debt to a third party
debt collector. For that I think an award of £250 reflects the distress caused to Mr M over a
number of weeks.
Arval didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr M accepted it. He also explained that the 
reason why the payment wasnt made in September 2020 was because Arval didnt issue an 
invoice until mid 2021, and he responded immediately. He said he paid as soon as he was 
invoiced for the correct amount.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided new information or evidence that leads me to change my 
conclusions. So having thought about everything carefully again, I still think this complaint 
should be upheld. This is for the same reasons I explained in my provisional decision and 
which Ive set out above.Putting things right
To put things right, Arval should pay Mr M £250 to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience they caused him.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint about Arval UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman