DRN-2383173
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the information Aviva Life & Pension UK Limited (Aviva) gave her 
partner when he contacted it to confirm a switch hed made of her pension fund. She wants 
compensation for the loss shes suffered from the fall in the fund value, because she says 
the switch was based on incorrect information and she wouldnt have done it if shed known 
the correct position. 
What happened
Mrs S holds a personal pension with Aviva. On 6 March 2020 Mrs Ss partner, who is 
representing her here, contacted Aviva about switching funds in both of their plans. After he 
had discussed switching some of his funds, he asked Aviva about a switch hed already 
made earlier that day on behalf of Mrs S. Aviva confirmed that switch was in progress and 
would be effective from 9 March 2020.
On 10 March 2020 Mrs Ss partner contacted Aviva to dispute the switches. He said hed 
been given the wrong information about the date Mrs Ss switch would become effective. 
Aviva listened to the telephone calls and confirmed that he had been provided with unclear 
information about his own switches  but not Mrs Ss. It said the information regarding her 
plan was correct. It said it wouldnt change the dates the switch was effective from and didnt 
think it had done anything wrong.
But Mrs Ss partner said Aviva had provided incorrect information and he wouldnt have 
completed her switch if hed known the correct dates. He wanted the switch to be effective 
from 6 March 2020. Aviva confirmed that it didnt offer a live service and the information it 
had given about transaction times was correct. It offered some compensation for the unclear 
information it had provided about Mr Ss fund, but as he didnt think Avivas offer of 
compensation was enough for the loss suffered from both plans, he brought both complaints 
to us.
Mrs Ss complaint was considered by one of our investigators who said the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. He said Mrs Ss partner had completed the switch of her fund online 
before hed contacted Aviva, and the information Aviva gave him about the date the switch 
would become effective was correct. Thats because the fund was invested in another stock 
market  with a considerable time difference, which meant the unit price wasnt received until 
the next working day.
But Mrs S didnt accept the outcome and her partner said hed only decided to switch based 
on the advice he was given by Aviva on the telephone. He asked for the complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman- so it been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ss partner has brought complaints about his and Mrs Ss pension switches. His 
complaint is being considered separately  so what Im considering here is whether Aviva 
gave incorrect information about the date the switch on Mrs Ss plan would become 
effective, and whether this influenced the decision to switch. And having considered 
everything, I agree with investigator and on largely the same grounds. I know this outcome 
will disappoint Mrs S  so Ill explain my reasons.
When Mrs Ss partner contacted Aviva, it was to discuss some switches he wanted to make 
on his plan. Towards the end of the conversation he asked if everything was alright with a 
switch he made earlier on his wifes plan. He was told the switch was in progress and that it 
will have the switch date of Monday as well. Mrs Ss partner replied, oh yeah, so on 
Monday shall I call to change.
So, its not in dispute that Mrs Ss partner had already completed an online switch of Mrs Ss 
entire existing funds into a pension deposit fund when he made the call on the 
6 March 2020. So I cant agree with Mrs Ss complaint that the switch was only actioned 
based on the information Aviva provided, when the switch had already been conducted and 
anything Aviva said wouldnt have affected whether Mrs S would have gone ahead with the 
transaction or not. So, as Aviva wasnt involved in the switch application but simply 
processed it online, I couldnt say it had made any mistakes executing the switch or caused 
Mrs S not to go ahead. Aviva couldnt have influenced the decision as the application to 
switch was made online before it spoke with Mrs Ss partner.
But Ive also considered the information Aviva did provide Mrs Ss partner about when the 
switch would have been effective from. The operator clearly said the switch would be 
effective on Monday 9 March 2020  which was the next working day in this case. And Aviva 
has confirmed that the stock that Mrs S switched from, which was a US equity tracker, was 
categorised as a fund which would be priced at the following (working) days unit value. 
Thats because Aviva doesnt operate a live transactional system and has to use the prices 
up to three working days later  depending on the stocks involved. In this case there was a   
delay of one working day which meant the information Aviva provided about the date the 
switch became effective was correct.
Although I have some sympathy for the position Mrs S finds herself in here, I cant say the 
switch was influenced by Avivas information as the switch had already been actioned before 
her partner spoke with Aviva. But in any case, based on what Ive heard here, the date Aviva 
said the switch would be completed, in other words the next working day, was correct. So I 
dont think Aviva has done anything wrong here. 
My final decisionFor the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman