DRN-2774415
The complaint
Mr R complains that U K Insurance Ltd (UKI) took too long to provide him with a hire car and 
wouldnt reimburse him for the travel costs he incurred during this delay.
Any reference to UKI also includes its agents.
What happened
Mr Rs car was taken in for repairs, he notified UKI of this and asked to be provided with a 
hire car.
The car hire company then got in touch with Mr R, but it said it wasnt able to provide him 
with a hire car without a copy of his driving license  it said this is part of its terms and 
conditions. Mr R says he didnt have his driving license because hed sent it off to get the 
address changed. In the end, the hire company made a decision to allow Mr R a hire car.
During Mr Rs time without a car, he was able to use his sons car for journeys. UKI told Mr R 
that it would only reimburse him the cost of transport where he was able to provide a receipt. 
It said it wouldnt reimburse the cost of him using his sons car. 
Mr R was unhappy with this. He says that he didnt feel safe taking public transport because 
of the pandemic. And so, he thought it was safer to use his sons car. Mr R didnt think it was 
fair of UKI to not reimburse him for the use of his sons car and he didnt think the policy 
wording around this was clear.
Mr R also felt that UKI should have done more in helping him find a hire car in a timely 
manner  and helping him sort out the issues he was having with the requirement of a 
driving licence number.
UKI upheld Mr Rs complaint in part. It said it hadnt done anything wrong when it wouldnt 
reimburse Mr R the cost of using his sons car. It said that it would reimburse him for a taxi or 
other public transport but theres nowhere that it states in the policy that it wouldnt cover the 
use of his sons car. But UKI did find that it didnt call him back when it said it would and so it 
offered him £80 to say sorry.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr R. But he didnt uphold the complaint. He felt that 
UKI were fair not to reimburse Mr R, because he hadnt lost out financially. And that the 
insurance policy was only meant to cover his losses, and not the losses of his son. Our 
investigator felt that if UKI were to pay Mr R for using his sons car, then it would put him in a 
better position than he would have been in and so he didnt agree that UKI should reimburse 
him.
In response to our investigators assessment Mr R said he didnt agree, explaining he had 
paid his son to drive him around  something that he hadnt previously mentioned to UKI or 
this service. He then sent this service a copy of a handwritten invoice from his son for the 
amount of £270.
Our investigator put this to UKI to see if they wanted to reimburse Mr R. But it said the policy 
terms only require it to reimburse Mr R for travel expenses where they are unable to provide 
a hire car. UKI were able to provide Mr R with a hire car, but the issue arose when Mr R 
didnt have his driving licence  and so UKI declined to reimburse Mr R £270.
Our investigator looked into things again, but he still didnt think UKI should do more. He felt 
that it wasnt fair for UKI to now change its reasoning as to why it wouldnt reimburse Mr R. 
But he said that generally, £10 a day would be considered fair compensation for the loss of 
use of his car. Mr R had been without his car for seven days and so this would total £70. But 
Mr R had already been paid more than this by UKI, and he felt that the compensation UKI 
had already offered Mr R was enough to settle matters.
Mr R didnt agree. He said he did incur costs and he has provided proof of this. And he says 
that the investigator hasnt taken into account the stress he went through as a vulnerable 
person.
Because Mr R didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions to see what it says about hire cars and what it 
would reimburse in terms of travel expenses if it wasnt able to provide one.
I can see the policy says:
If we are unable to provide you with a hire car because:
 you suffer an injury during the accident which prevents you from driving; or
 your car has been professionally adapted or converted to carry a disabled driver or
passenger and a suitable hire car is not available; or
 there are no hire cars available and no alternative cars are available for hire,
we will reimburse your travel costs (up to £50 a day and up to a maximum of £500 over the
21 days following your claim).
It then says:
All requests for the reimbursement of travel costs will need to be substantiated with 
documentary evidence otherwise we may not be able to reimburse you.
Firstly, the conditions here suggest that UKI would reimburse Mr R if it wasnt able to provide 
a hire car. But it was able to provide a hire car, its just that Mr R didnt have his driving 
licence and so he didnt meet the terms and conditions which would allow him the use of a 
car. Given that the availability of the hire car wasnt down to something UKI hadnt been able 
to provide, I dont think that normally it would be unfair of it to decline Mr Rs claim for this 
reason. 
But UKI did continually tell Mr R that it would cover him for travel expenses if he kept the 
receipts, so I think it would be unfair of UKI to now rely on the fact it says it was able to 
provide a hire car in order to decline to reimburse Mr R. The policy does state that it would reimburse costs, but it would need to see documentary 
evidence of the cost, i.e receipts, before it would reimburse. But Mr R didnt, initially, have 
any of these things because hed chosen not to use public transport due to the pandemic. 
But he thought UKI should pay him £50 a day anyway. I dont think UKI were unfair to not 
reimburse him £50 a day without any evidence of the costs hed incurred. Mr R didnt give 
UKI any travel receipts when they were investigating the claim but said that his son had 
been able to drive him around.
Its worth noting here that the purpose of the policy is to cover the losses of the insured. Mr 
R has said that he was able to use his sons car, so it didnt initially appear that Mr R had 
been out of pocket financially as a result of UKI not paying his expenses. While Mr R might 
argue that his son has lost out from having to drive him around, the purpose of this policy 
isnt to cover his son for inconvenience or costs. So, I dont think it was necessary for UKI to 
pay for the losses of Mr Rs son. 
But since our investigators view, Mr R has provided this service with a handwritten invoice 
from his son for the cost of £270 for driving him around while he didnt have access to his 
own car. Mr R hadnt mentioned to this service or UKI, prior to our investigators outcome, 
that he had paid his son, and he had an invoice to prove it. I would have expected Mr R to 
have mentioned this sooner if he had this evidence, given that this is where is complaint 
stems from. Given that Mr R hadnt given this information to UKI, I dont think it was unfair of 
UKI to not reimburse the costs that Mr R now says he incurred. 
I do however, think UKI could have done more to help Mr R resolve the issue with the hire 
car. I can see that Mr R did continue to contact UKI about the problem, but it just referred 
him back to the terms and conditions of the hire car company without offering any resolution 
 other than to reimburse him for a mode of transport he understandably didnt want to take. 
So, I think Mr R should be compensated for the loss of use of his car. Our investigator has 
already explained the reason why we would normally award £10 a day for loss of use, so I 
wont go into this more. But given that Mr R was without the use of a car for seven days, I 
agree that a fair way to compensate Mr R would be to pay him £70.
In addition to this, UKI has agreed that it could have provided a better service when it didnt 
call Mr R back when it said it would. While I can understand that this would be frustrating to 
Mr R, I dont think itd have significant impact, when Mr R could have called back. 
UKI has already paid Mr R £80 in distress and inconvenience. And as I dont think UKI were 
responsible for him not getting the hire car, I think its fair in all the circumstances of this 
case. 
I understand that Mr R feels that £80 isnt enough to compensate him given his 
circumstances. Hes said that being a vulnerable person in the pandemic has heightened his 
stress levels. I dont wish to anyway downplay or disregard the situation Mr R has found 
himself in. Its understandable that travelling in the pandemic would be of concern. But Mr R 
has told us that he had the use of his sons car, so he didnt have to take taxis or other 
public transport to get around. So, I think he was able to still travel around relatively safely 
while his car was in for repairs and before he got his hire car. Because of that, I still think 
that £80 is a fair way to settle Mr Rs complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman