DRN-3696427
The complaint
Mr B complains about a change made to Santander UK Plcs online payment system
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them 
here. Instead, Ill focus on what has happened since and the reasons for my decision.  
Unhappy with Santanders response to his complaint, Mr B contacted our service. One of our 
investigators considered Mr Bs complaint and didnt find that it should be upheld. He 
appreciated Mr Bs frustration with the new credit card payment system, but he didnt think 
Santander had done anything wrong. 
Mr B rejected the investigators findings as he didnt think the changes Santander had made 
to their online banking payment system was in the best interest of their customers. He 
pointed out that  until this incident he had always paid on time with no issues. So, he asked 
for a final decision, and the case has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator. I know Mr B 
will be disappointed, so Ill explain why. 
Ive listened to the call Mr B had with our investigator following his assessment of the 
complaint. I acknowledge the difficulties Mr B says he has had using the updated credit card 
payment interface and that he feels its not user friendly, especially for those in the same 
position as him with multiple credit cards which he repays from a non-Santander account. 
But I can only uphold this complaint if Ive found Santander had done something wrong or 
treated Mr B unfairly. 
Santander arent required to give advance notice of system updates in the same way as I 
would expect them to if they were withdrawing a service or a changing the account terms 
and conditions. Im satisfied its general practice for financial businesses to make updates to 
their online systems and this isnt something this service would interfere with. I do 
understand the change hasnt worked as well for Mr B as it might for other Santander 
customers, although I understand Mr B says he can navigate the new online system as he 
now knows he needs to manually change the credit card he wishes to pay. But as I dont 
consider Santander has made a mistake, and that theyre entitled set up their system in the 
way that they choose, I dont find that it would be fair to order Santander to change their 
credit card payment interface to how it was before or pay Mr B for the confusion he had 
using the new system.
Mr B has asked for the interest charged refunded and the £5.90 payment that when to his 
other account in error to be reimbursed. Ive thought about this carefully, as I can see that Mr 
B did make a payment with the intention of clearing the balance on the account where the 
money was owed. But it went to his other account instead. 
But looking at the information provided, in order to avoid the interest due, Mr B needed to 
clear the balance by 29 December, but the statement for his other account shows the 
payment wasnt received until 31 December. So even if the payment had gone to the right 
account, it seems it wouldve been received too late.  As the interest was charged in line with 
the terms of the account, I dont find that Santander has to refund it. 
Santander has provided Mr B with details on how he can obtain a refund of the £5.90 credit 
balance. And I think this is reasonable and I dont consider Santander needs to do more to 
address this issue.
Taking the matter as a whole, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman