DRN-3195687
The complaint
Mr B and Ms M are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has declined a claim 
they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B and Ms M took out a single trip insurance policy with URV to insure a holiday abroad. 
The holiday was due to take place in April 2020. On 11 March 2020 the World Health 
Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic and on 17 March 2020 the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Development Office (FCDO) advised against all but essential travel abroad. 
That advice remained in place up until Mr B and Ms Ms planned departure date. The airline 
suspended flights to their destination on 23 March 2020.
Mr B and Ms Ms trip couldnt go ahead and they claimed for their unused accommodation 
expenses. URV declined the claim on the basis it wasnt covered by the policy and that 
Covid-19 was a known event when the policy was purchased. Unhappy, Mr B and Ms M 
complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into what happened and upheld Mr B and Ms Ms complaint. He 
didnt think that the policy terms and conditions had made it sufficiently clear that Mr B and 
Ms Ms policy wouldnt cover them for cancellation if the FCDO advised against all but 
essential travel but also not cover them if they travelled. So, he thought that Mr B and Ms M 
wouldnt have bought the policy if this had been made clear and transparent. 
URV didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary, they said 
that it was Mr B and Ms Ms responsibility to ensure that they had the right level of cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The investigator also 
highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint. 
The policy documentation
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) summarises the cover available. On 
page 1 it says:
Unless agreed with us there will be no cover if the FCO advise against travel to your 
destination.
On page 18 of the policy terms and conditions it sets out the circumstances in which 
cancellation is covered under the policy. It says: 
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the Schedule of benefits for your 
proportion only of any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs and 
other pre-paid charges (including excursions up to £250) which you have paid or are 
contracted to pay, together with your proportion only of any reasonable additional 
travel expenses incurred if cancellation of the trip is necessary and unavoidable and 
due to: 
1. The death, bodily injury, illness, disease, or complications arising as a direct 
result of pregnancy of: 
(a) You
(b) Any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with 
(c) Any person who you have arranged to stay with 
(d) Your close relative
(e) Your close business associate. 
2. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with being 
quarantined, called as a witness at a Court of Law or for jury service attendance. 
3. Redundancy of you or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to 
travel with
4. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with, are a 
member of the Armed Forces, Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or 
Ambulance Services or employees of a Government Department and have 
your/their authorised leave cancelled or are called up for operational reasons, 
provided that the cancellation could reasonably have been expected at a time 
when you purchased this insurance or at the time of booking any trip. 
5. The Police or other authorities requesting you to stay at or return to your home 
due to serious damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, 
flood, subsidence, fallen trees, collision by road vehicles, malicious people or 
theft. 
The policy contains a general exclusion on page 14 which says it will not cover: 
Your travel to a country, specific area or event when the Travel Advice Unit of the 
Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or regulatory authority in a country to/from 
which you are travelling has advised against all, or all but essential travel.
Was it unreasonable for URV to decline the claim? 
I think its fair and reasonable for URV to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation 
section of the policy because: 
Mr B and Ms M cancelled their trip because the FCDO advised against all but 
essential travel to the destination they were due to travel to. Thats not something 
that is covered under the terms and conditions of the policy as its not a specific or 
listed insured event. However, taking into account the relevant law and industry 
guidelines, I dont think that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the 
circumstances of this case for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
The exclusions that Ive outlined above mean that if Mr B and Ms M had travelled 
abroad theyd have not followed FCDO advice. So, they wouldnt have been covered by the policy terms and conditions. But, under the terms and conditions of the policy, 
changes in FCDO guidance also arent covered by the policy. I dont think that was 
made sufficiently clear to Mr B and Ms M.   
Mr B and Ms M would have needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in 
order to understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont think 
that this information was brought to their attention in a prominent and transparent 
way. So, I dont think the combined effect of the policy terms was made sufficiently 
clear 
I think this has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr B and 
Ms M and URV. I think its unlikely that Mr B and Ms M would have purchased the 
policy if they had realised that there was no cover under the policy if the FCDO 
guidance changed after theyd bought the policy. Other policies covering changes in 
FCDO advice were available at the time Mr B and Ms M purchased this policy.
URV didnt raise any further comments about the date of the policy purchase, which 
was 12 March 2020. However, Ive taken this into account and this doesnt change 
my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint. If URV wanted to exclude cover for 
claims arising from Covid-19 it was open to them to apply an exclusion to the policy 
to the policy or to let Mr B and Ms M know that such claims wouldnt be covered 
during the sales process. Its presented no evidence to demonstrate that it did.
Putting things right
Im directing URV to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation section of the policy. 
URV should therefore assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr B and Ms Ms complaint and direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman