DRN-4241054
The complaint
Miss F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc refused to raise three chargeback claims, and 
then closed her account.
What happened
Miss F asked HSBC to challenge three debit card payments totalling £179. Two of them had 
been made in July 2021, and one in October 2021. There is a dispute about when she first 
asked HSBC to refund them. HSBC says she first raised the matter in August 2022, by 
which time it was too late to raise a chargeback dispute, because the time limits under the 
chargeback rules had expired. Miss F is adamant that she did so much earlier than that, and 
that she was in time. However, HSBC refunded the transactions as a gesture of good will.
In September HSBC wrote to Miss F to tell her it was going to close her account. She says 
she did not receive this letter for over three weeks. She asked HSBC not to close her 
account, but in November it was closed. She brought this complaint to our service, about the 
closure of her account and about how HSBC had dealt with her request to raise chargeback 
disputes about the three payments.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said that he had seen no evidence that 
Miss F had mentioned those three transactions to HSBC earlier than August 2022, and that 
HSBC had no record of any earlier communication about them. He said that Miss F 
appeared to have asked for several transactions to be charged back during 2022, and so it 
was possible that she had just lost track of which transactions she had challenged. But 
HSBC had refunded the three payments to her as a gesture of good will, and he wouldnt 
have asked it to do more than that if he had upheld her complaint. He said that HSBC had 
been entitled to close her account, and had given her sufficient notice.
Miss F did not accept that decision. She insisted that she had chased HSBC about the 
transactions for a year, with no reply. She asked for an ombudsman to look into her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. There is no evidence to support Miss Fs contention that 
she asked for these refunds in 2021, and the only evidence I do have  an email she sent 
HSBC on 31 August 2022  says she wants to dispute two separate transactions for either 
£50 or £55, I am sorry, I cannot recall. It will be between the dates of Jan 2021 to now.
Besides the three transactions this complaint is about, Miss F disputed some other 
payments as well, and so the investigator may be right about her not recalling which ones 
she had raised and which she had not raised yet. Whatever the truth of that, these three 
have now been refunded. (Even if HSBC did fail to respond to earlier requests made by 
Miss F  and I do not think that it did  I still do not think it would be proportionate to award 
Miss F the £1,500 she has asked for, nor her revised request of £600.)
HSBCs records show that it wrote to Miss F about closing her account on 2 September, and 
her complaint about that letter also mentions that was the date on it. If it was delivered late, 
that is not HSBCs fault. Her account was closed on 3 November. That is adequate notice, 
and so the account was closed properly.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman