DRN-2708470
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are complaining about the mis-sale of a life assurance policy and a home 
insurance policy in July 1999 by Lloyds Bank PLC. Mr and Mrs B have also complained 
about the sale of the mortgage that took place at the same time  but thats being 
considered separately by our service.
What happened
In 1999, Mr and Mrs B were looking to buy a house and they met with an advisor from 
Lloyds to discuss a mortgage. Mr and Mrs B say they were told that in order to get the 
Lloyds mortgage they needed to also take out buildings insurance and life cover with Lloyds. 
They say they werent given the opportunity to look for cover elsewhere, and they werent 
told details of the policies.
Mr and Mrs B complained that they were pressured into taking out the policies, given 
unsuitable advice, and ended up purchasing products that were unsuitable. In particular, 
they feel that their work and health circumstances werent properly assessed. Mr Bs health 
deteriorated, leading to the loss of his career, and subsequently the loss of Mr and Mrs Bs 
home in 2003. Mr and Mrs B also said they were aware of the Plevin ruling on commission 
and wanted to know whether high amounts of commission had been paid in relation to the 
sale of their policies.
When Lloyds replied to Mr and Mrs B, they said theyd complained too late. So they didnt 
consider the merits of the complaint in any detail.
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. He explained to Lloyds that he 
thought Mr and Mrs Bs situation (in particular their health) constituted exceptional 
circumstances  so he thought we could look into the complaint. Lloyds agreed so our 
investigator went on to look at the merits of the complaint.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. He said its common for buildings 
insurance to be a requirement of a mortgage, and it was fair for Lloyds to recommend their 
own policy. He suggested Mr and Mrs B could have taken out a different policy elsewhere if 
they were unhappy with the recommendation. In relation to life assurance, he said this was 
sometimes mandatory at the time. But he said, even if it wasnt mandatory it was likely to 
have been suitable to provide financial protection to Mr and Mrs B and their children. 
Our investigator also said that although Mr and Mrs B felt they hadnt been asked enough 
questions about their work and health circumstances, there was no evidence that this has 
had any impact on the life assurance. And he said the Plevin ruling didnt apply to Mr and 
Mrs Bs policies.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with our investigators view. They said they understood that 
customers were able to choose other options if they wanted to. But, they said, they were 
vulnerable clients at the time and should have been treated better. They reiterated that they 
werent informed of their options or properly questioned and were asked to sign documents 
to clinch the deal on the day. Mr and Mrs B asked for an ombudsman to look at their 
complaint  so its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B have been through very difficult circumstances over a long period 
of time. I can understand how upsetting all of this must be for them. However, Im not 
upholding their complaint, for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain why.
The terms of the mortgage offer
Lloyds have provided a copy of their usual mortgage terms and conditions from 1999 and 
these suggest that buildings insurance would likely have been a condition of the mortgage. 
The terms also suggest that life assurance was often a condition of their mortgages at the 
time. 
Its clear from these terms that the expectation was that a borrower would use Lloyds 
buildings insurance  but that it wasnt compulsory. The terms say: if you want to arrange 
the buildings insurance on the Property with an insurance company of your choice, rather 
than with us, we need to check that you have a policy and that it is a suitable one We may 
make a charge for this service. So it would have been fair for Lloyds to suggest that the 
mortgage and buildings insurance usually came as a package, and that there might be extra 
charges for using an alternative insurer. 
Its not clear whether life assurance was mandatory for Mr and Mrs B. But either way, Lloyds 
obligations were to recommend a suitable product for Mr and Mrs B. Ive seen very little 
information about the life assurance they took out, so its difficult to say whether the product 
was suitable. However, Im satisfied it was suitable for them to take out some life assurance 
 they were taking on a significant joint financial debt, and they had other dependants. So if 
one of them were to die, the life assurance would have provided some financial security for 
the rest of the family. 
The nature of the sale
Mr and Mrs B have complained that they werent informed of their options or given the 
opportunity to look elsewhere. They say they felt pressured into taking the recommended 
products. 
I can understand that the sale may have felt pressured. Arranging a mortgage can be very 
stressful and its common for customers to want to do everything they can to ensure a 
mortgage is approved. But that doesnt mean that Lloyds were wrong to recommend their 
own buildings insurance and life assurance. Its possible the mortgage may have been 
cheaper if taken at the same time as buildings insurance and life assurance. And it does 
seem likely that taking the Lloyds products would have enabled Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage to 
be approved more quickly.
The mortgage offer wouldnt have been legally binding until the loan was taken out. So if Mr 
and Mrs B werent happy with the outcome of the meeting, they could have met with another 
lender or an independent financial advisor to explore their options.
Vulnerabilities and personal circumstances
Mr and Mrs B have said Lloyds should have asked more questions about their work and 
health situation at the meeting. But I cant see that would have impacted either the buildings 
insurance or the life assurance  except that it might possibly have increased the premium 
payable for life assurance. 
A significant part of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint though, is that they were vulnerable 
customers, having significant mental health difficulties, and that they should have been 
treated as such by Lloyds. We dont have any documentation of the meeting so I dont know what was said or in what 
way. And the guidance on the treatment of vulnerable customers has evolved significantly 
over recent years  there was very little in place at the time of the meeting. Lloyds would 
have needed to make recommendations based on Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances and what 
they knew of their vulnerabilities. 
Given the absence of documentation and the limited guidance its difficult to assess whether 
Lloyds treated Mr and Mrs B appropriately in this respect. Its not clear what Lloyds knew of 
Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances. I appreciate Mr and Mrs Bs view now is that they werent in 
a position at the time to make good decisions. And at the time, Mr B had been off work for 
several months due to his poor mental health, so I can understand that they might have 
been finding decision-making difficult. But much of the information Mr and Mrs B have 
provided about Mr Bs health only came to light much later  so it wouldnt be fair to expect 
Lloyds to have taken this into account in 1999.
Further, as Ive explained above, it was likely a condition of the mortgage offer that Mr and 
Mrs B take out buildings insurance. And it would have been suitable for Mr and Mrs B to take 
out life assurance. So Im satisfied Lloyds advised Mr and Mrs B appropriately about these 
two products, regardless of their vulnerabilities. 
Commission
Mr and Mrs B said they were aware of the Plevin ruling and wanted to know whether 
high commission had been paid in relation to their policies. In the Plevin ruling, the 
Supreme Court found that the lenders failure to disclose a large commission it knew about 
in relation to a policy sold alongside a credit agreement gave rise to an unfair relationship 
under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. However, section 140 A is only 
applicable to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007 (or if it started before 6 
April 2007, it was ongoing on 6 April 2008). It does not apply to regulated mortgage 
contracts. Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage closed in 2003, so the unfair relationship provisions set 
out in section 140A of the CCA about the handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission arent applicable.
Summary
In summary, I appreciate Mr and Mrs B have experienced significant difficulties over many 
years. And I know they felt pressured into taking out these products. But I havent seen 
anything to suggest the products were unsuitable or that Mr and Mrs B were mistreated. 
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to accept or reject my 
decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman