DRN-3573471
The complaint
Mr B complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a personal pension plan.
DC Financial Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep things 
consistent, Ill refer mainly to DCFL.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Bs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Bs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr B was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to a 
financial adviser. But during Mr Bs relationship with that firm, it apparently withdrew from the 
DB transfer and advice market.
In the meantime, and ahead of the 11 December 2017 deadline, it seems Mr B opted into 
joining the new BSPS2 which was due to commence soon thereafter. This was a step we 
know was not uncommon among Mr Bs colleagues at the time and Ive seen evidence dated 
10 January 2018 saying, as hed opted in to the new scheme Mr B didnt need to do 
anything; the BSPS2 was due to start on around the end of March 2018. 
Mr Bs guaranteed CETV estimate was due to expire on 26 January 2018. And so on 18 
January 2018 he contacted DCFL which became responsible for providing him with pension 
advice. Information gathered about his circumstances and objectives at the time were 
broadly as follows:
Mr B was 34 years old, unmarried but with a partner and a young dependent child. 
He was in good health and at that point he had accrued around eleven years of 
pension benefits with the BSPS.
Mr B earned around £35,000 per year. He had around £900 in savings but didnt own 
any other significant assets. He was described as renting a home from a relative at 
the time.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Bs BSPS was approximately 
£132,829 and the normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. DCFL said Mr B wanted to 
retire early if possible, at the age of 60.
DCFL set out its advice in a suitability letter and report on 22 January 2018. It advised him to 
transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a personal pension arrangement, rather 
than the BSPS2. DCFL said this would allow Mr B to achieve his objectives. Mr B accepted 
this advice and so transferred to a personal pension. In 2021 Mr B complained to DCFL 
about its advice, saying he shouldnt have been advised to transfer out to a personal 
pension. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it should be upheld. In response, DCFL said it hadnt done anything wrong and was 
acting on the financial objectives Mr B had at the time. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of DCFL's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
Ive also comprehensively considered DCFLs responses to the complaint outlined in its 
undated letter we received in July 2022. This letter addresses many points, all of which Ive 
thought carefully about. However, in this final decision Ive rightly concentrated on the issues 
I believe affect the outcome of the complaint. DCFL made many somewhat general points. For example, it sent me information implying many of its other advice cases had been 
reviewed by a third party and not all had been found to be unsuitable for clients. However 
here, Ive rightly focussed on the issues pertinent to Mr Bs complaint and the circumstances 
of that time. 
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, DCFL should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Bs best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Bs best interests. 
I dont think it was, and like our investigator, I think the suitable advice was to move to the 
BSPS2. This means Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
Financial viability 
DCFL referred in its BSPS2 transfer analysis and suitability report to critical yield rates. The 
critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on 
the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity 
benefits as the DB scheme. It is therefore part of a range of different things which help show 
how likely it is that a personal pension could achieve the necessary investment growth for a 
transfer-out to become financially viable. 
In the transfer analysis dated 22 January 2018, DCFL said the critical yields for retiring at the 
NRA of 65 were 5% if taking a full pension, without a tax-free lump sum. These related to 
comparisons with the BSPS2. And for early retirement, at the age of 60 the yield was 5.24%. 
DCFL also implied reaching these levels of growth would be difficult to achieve.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period just before 1 October 2017 
and was 4.7% per year for 30 years to retirement (age 65), which is below the critical yield 
figures Ive referred to above. The discount rate for retiring at 60 was 4.6%. So, this infers 
that reaching the yields above would be more unlikely than likely. 
Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate at the time of the advice was 
8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. So, the middle 
rate was still not above any of the critical yields  and even small percentage points, year-
on-year, can make meaningful differences to growth over time. Ive also noted the personal 
pension providers own mid-growth assumption was 4.37%, Again, this was below the critical 
yield rates.
Ive noted too, the attitude to risk (ATR) categorisation, which DCFL applied to Mr B, was 
moderate. This was evidently based on some questions about investment risk Mr B had 
answered. But I think this categorisation was probably too high and I dont think its likely Mr B really understood what being placed in this category could mean for his pension if he 
transferred out. 
For example, Mr B expressed no views on funds where any transferred monies might be 
invested. The evidence is also strongly suggestive of Mr B having absolutely no investment 
experience and he had no such investments at the time. So, whilst its fair to use this type of 
ATR assessment as a basis for discussion, I dont think other obvious facts about the 
consumer can simply be ignored. And when asking about his ATR, DCFL should have been 
aware that he had no previous investment experience to call upon.
In fact, I think any reasonable assessment of Mr Bs circumstances should have noted this 
pension was by far his biggest financial asset. He had no other assets, investments and only 
very modest savings. The evidence suggests strongly that Mr B required help with his 
property needs and he had literally become a father a few short weeks ago. So, I think the 
ATR applied to Mr B was somewhat unrealistic as it was probably based wholly on answers 
to general questions about investments. I do accept that his relatively young age did provide 
some scope for pension investments to grow in the future by ironing out peaks and troughs 
in the years ahead, but I think Mr Bs ATR should have been moderated down even further 
as his circumstances simply didnt appear to support what was selected from an ATR matrix 
where the questions were most likely generalised and pre-formatted. 
I should stress that none of this ATR debate would affect the outcome of this complaint, but 
I do think it demonstrates DCFLs overall weaknesses in providing advice to Mr B. I think it 
failed to really understand Mr Bs individual circumstances and the advice process was 
hurried due to the tight timescales involved. DCFL should have considered his obvious 
financial and family situation more comprehensively. So, I think an assumed growth figure of 
around the discount rate or around the lower to middle of regulators projection was much 
more comparable to the rates of growth Mr B might realistically expect upon transferring out 
to a personal pension. And to be clear, this was below all the critical yield rates.
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, DCFL also made mention of the PPF, which it described 
as a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when the 
sponsoring employer becomes insolvent. DCFL said the critical yield to match the benefits 
available through the PPF at age 65 was 4.66% per year and 5.19% per year at the age of 
60. But these yields related to the reduced benefits available with the PPF and DCFL itself 
says Mr B wouldnt have wanted to transfer to this scheme. Its also important to remember 
here that the effect of charges and fees associated with a personal pension would have 
further reduced the likely growth  our investigator set out what these charges were in their 
view. 
As a further comparison, I can also see that DCFLs transfer analysis showed that in order to 
purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the existing scheme at retirement 
at age 65, the funds required would be around £381,589  far in excess of Mr Bs current 
CETV. Even in order to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the 
estimated benefits of the existing scheme, assuming no spouses pension, no increases in 
payment and no guarantee at retirement, the estimated fund required was £263,383. In my 
view, these costs provide a revealing window into the real value Mr B would lose if he 
transferred out to a personal pension plan.
So, I dont think DCFL should have recommended that Mr B ought to transfer away from a 
DB scheme to a personal pension arrangement. Nothing Ive seen shows hed enjoy more 
financial pension benefits upon retirement by transferring. DCFL itself even said the critical 
yield would be hard to achieve.However, to be clear, DCFLs recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal 
pension was not predicated on the financial comparisons with his current scheme alone. 
Rather, DCFL said Mr B had different reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought about all the 
other considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for him, despite 
providing the overall lower benefits mentioned above. 
Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and other needs
DCFL recommended a transfer to a personal pension based on what it said were Mr Bs 
wider objectives. Ive summarised the following themes, as supporting the recommendation 
to transfer away:
The ability to retire early. In a personal pension he could take more tax-free cash. He 
could then draw his desired retirement income more flexibly. 
He could access flexible income by transferring to a personal pension arrangement. 
There were better death benefits in a personal pension. 
The future of the BSPS was a concern and Mr B didnt want to enter the PPF.
So, it seems the supporting reasons that DCFL recommended the transfer out to a personal 
pension was for the flexibility and control it offered to Mr B. I have therefore considered all 
these issues in turn. 
Retiring early / taking tax-free cash
DCFL mentioned in various documents from the time of the advice that Mr B had said he 
wanted to retire early. I dont doubt that Mr B might have genuinely hoped to retire as early 
as 60, which is what was recorded by DCFL. But Ive seen nothing that shows this was 
anything more than something he aspired to do at that stage, as opposed to being part of a 
formulated plan. I say this because Mr B was only 34 years old at the time and its simply not 
credible that he had any concrete plans for retirement at that point. 
DCFL also promoted to Mr B that he could access more tax-free cash if he transferred to a 
personal pension plan. It said hed be able to access 25% of his pension as a lump-sum and 
then use the remaining funds more flexibly. Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can 
be accessed from a personal pension when compared against a DB scheme; this is because 
the values and benefits of the two schemes are calculated differently. But DCFL should have 
been telling Mr B at the time that extra tax-free lump sums being removed from a personal 
pension, potentially from his late fifties in his case, also came with consequences in that the 
amount left for his later retirement years would obviously decrease. 
Even if I were to consider the highly unlikely scenario that Mr Bs retirement plans were more 
fixed than the mere aspirations set out by DCFL - and he really did want to retire early - I 
think DCFL should have assessed the possibility of achieving this goal whilst being a 
member of the BSPS2, for example. Early retirement under the BSPS2, or indeed the PPF, 
would still have been an option for Mr B, although this would have meant Mr Bs pension 
benefits would have been somewhat reduced due to him accessing the pension earlier and 
for longer. But I think this was discounted by DCFL as Ive seen no evidence it was 
realistically discussed with a view to assessing whether it was more in Mr Bs best interests. 
The advice simply focussed on him transferring away completely.So, whilst I accept the notion of retiring early and / or accessing tax-free cash might have 
been appealing, this needed to be considered against the other options Mr B faced, 
including opting for the BSPS2. I cant see that Mr B required flexibility in retirement in the 
way DCFL suggested. DCFL said that Mr Bs estimated annual pension upon his NRA was 
£11,353 per year or £8,431 at the age of 60. As a DB pension this was guaranteed and 
index linked (with certain restrictions). 
However, as he was so young, it wasnt possible to say what Mr Bs financial and income 
needs were likely to be in retirement. And I havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr B 
wouldnt have been able to meet his likely retirement income needs by accessing his DB 
pension instead of transferring out to a personal pension plan. This is because, as well as 
retirement being a long time away, we know Mr B had already joined his employers new 
defined contribution (DC) scheme and could have been making contributions to it for up to 
thirty years more, until he retired. Mr Bs contributions to this second pension were being 
added to by his employer and I think theres every reason to say that by retirement  
whenever it came  there would have been a substantial amount in this DC pension to 
complement his deferred DB scheme (in BSPS2). 
I think therefore, that by retirement, Mr B could have been in a good position if hed 
transferred to the BSPS2. On one hand hed have had a long-standing DB pension, but one 
with all the guarantees and benefits this type of scheme brought. And on the other hand, 
hed have built up a substantial DC pension over many years, which, if he later found he did 
require flexibility, this pension could have provided it.
I have therefore considered what DCFL said about retiring early and the potential flexibility 
brought about by transferring to a personal plan: it said this would include how funds were 
invested, the level of income he could withdraw from it and a greater ability to flexibly use the 
tax-free lump sum element. 
However, I dont think recommending a transfer-out based on these reasons was suitable 
because so little was known about what his retirement would look like. Ive also seen nothing 
which shows Mr B had either the desire or capacity to exercise personal control over his 
pension. As Ive pointed out earlier, Mr Bs previous exposure to investing was not really 
known and he had no such investments at the time. And to grow the transferred funds in the 
way DCFL implied he could, a higher degree of risk exposure would have been required.
So, I think Mr Bs circumstances were much more aligned to him transferring to BSPS2 and 
retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so, and then drawing a DB pension. 
Because he also had a second, DC pension, this supported that strategy, in my view. 
I therefore think the much more suitable option was for Mr B to access his DB pension in the 
way it was originally intended.
Death benefits 
DCFL says that death benefits were discussed at the time and the personal pension would 
better enable the retention of the value of the funds if Mr B died. But Im afraid I think this 
was no more than a stock objective. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was probably made to look like an attractive feature to Mr B. But 
whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr B might have thought 
it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. 
I also think saying Mr Bs death benefits would improve in a personal pension because he 
could pass over all his funds needed putting into context. Only in his thirties and in good 
health, he and his partner had already started a family and had a new-born child. In my view, 
the likely death benefits attached to the new DB scheme were therefore still relevant to Mr B. 
Even though he wasnt married, in his circumstances this benefit needed to be thoroughly 
explained and considered. From what Ive seen, the death benefits were substantially 
underplayed. 
If he did get married to his childs mother, the spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 
would have been useful to her if Mr B predeceased her and I dont think DCFL made the 
value of this benefit clear enough. As a recent father, I think the child specific benefits would 
also have been meaningful to Mr B. These were guaranteed and they escalated  they were 
not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a 
personal pension was. In any event, there may not have been a large sum left anyway in a 
personal pension upon Mr Bs passing, particularly if he lived a long life. DCFL should 
therefore not have encouraged Mr B to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits 
through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
It also doesnt appear that DCFL took into account the fact that Mr B could have nominated 
someone else close to him as the beneficiary of any funds remaining in his DC scheme. So, 
to this end, Mr B had already ensured part of his pension wouldnt die with him.
I cant see the extent to which life insurance was discussed in this case although it was 
evidently mentioned at some point in the discussions. But at 34 years old, this would have 
been a reasonably affordable product if Mr B really did want to leave a legacy for someone 
such as a partner, relative or his eventually his child. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr B. I think this objective was 
no more than a generic comment and not meaningful to Mr Bs situation. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr B, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and 
DCFL said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF and 
DCFL said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr B was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was DCFLs obligation to give Mr B an objective picture and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. Indeed, Mr B had signalled he was minded to opt into it. So, I think this 
should have alleviated Mr Bs concerns about his scheme moving to the PPF, which I know 
he didnt want.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that DCFL 
should have reassured Mr B that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr B through the PPF would have still have probably 
provided a significant portion of the income he would have needed at retirement, and he was still unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his ATR and the effect of 
pension charges and fees Ive mentioned. And although the increases in payment in the PPF 
were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, 
I dont think that these concerns should have led to DCFLs recommendation to Mr B to 
transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr B. But DCFL 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr B might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr B needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr B was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By transferring to a personal 
pension, the evidence shows Mr B was likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And I dont 
think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh 
this. I think DCFL ought to have advised him against transferring out of his DB scheme for 
this reason, particularly as it meant hed be worse off in retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Bs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I think it was clear to all parties that BSPS2 was likely to be going ahead. Mr B still had 
many years before he intended to retire. So, I don't think that it would have been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. By 
opting into the BSPS2, Mr B would have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. Also, if Mr B did eventually get married, then his 
wifes pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be 
calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr B chose to do so). The annual 
indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I think DCFL should have advised Mr B to continue to opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr B would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that DCFL disclosed some of the 
risks of transferring to Mr B, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But 
ultimately it advised Mr B to transfer out, and I think Mr B relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr B would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against DCFLs advice. I say this because Mr B was an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for almost all of his retirement provision at the time. So, if DCFL had 
provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it 
wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Bs concerns about the PPF were so great that he would 
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. So if DCFL had explained Mr B was also unlikely to exceed the benefits 
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet his income 
needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have carried 
significant weight.In light of the above, I think DCFL should compensate Mr B for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr B, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for DCFLs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B would 
have most likely remain as opted into joining the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal 
pension if he'd been given suitable advice. So, DCFL should use the benefits offered by 
BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr B whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now, in line 
with current guidance, or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published. He didnt want to 
wait, so I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss 
is identified, will provide fair redress for Mr B. 
For clarity, Mr B has not retired. So, compensation should be based on his normal retirement 
age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.
DCFL may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date DCFL receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes DCFL to pay Mr B.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect DCFL to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Ive considered the impact on Mr B of the unsuitable advice and transfer. Our investigator 
recommended that a sum of £300 should be paid to Mr B by DCFL for what he referred to as 
the trouble and upset caused by this unsuitable transfer. Ive taken into consideration Mr Bs 
age and circumstances and also that by retirement this DB pension would still have been a 
significant part of his overall pension entitlement, So I think the thought of losing benefits 
would have negatively impacted Mr B. I therefore agree that DCFL should also pay Mr B 
£300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice which has likely 
had an impact on his retirement planning
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: Ive decided to uphold this complaint.
I now direct DC Financial Limited to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the 
steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000. Where the compensation amount does not 
exceed £160,000, I would additionally require DC Financial Limited to pay Mr B any interest 
on that amount in full, as set out above. Where the compensation amount already exceeds 
£160,000, I would only require DC Financial Limited to pay Mr B any interest as set out 
above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
DC Financial Limited pays Mr B the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr B.
If Mr B accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on DC Financial 
Limited.My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman