DRN-3632626
The complaint
Mr C complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Burley Financial Services 
Limited (Burley) in November 2017 to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits in the 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP).
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in his
assessment which he provided to both Mr C and Burley. I dont intend to repeat here what 
our investigator stated but will instead provide a summary.
In March 2016, Mr Cs employer, Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata Steel), announced that it would 
be examining options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the 
company. The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income to members. The consultation with members referred to possible 
outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension 
Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to 
members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. Tata Steel 
closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
(RAA) had been agreed  this was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017. 
Under the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension 
scheme, the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied.
In October 2017, these changes were communicated to BSPS members, including Mr C, 
under the Time to Choose communication exercise. This explained that BSPS members 
had three options regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr C to retain guaranteed pension income, albeit at a 
lower level than provided by the BSPS. 
Members had to decide which option they wanted by 22 December 2017  those that didnt 
choose an option remained in the BSPS and were ultimately transferred to the PPF. The 
details of Mr Cs safeguarded benefits in the BSPS at that time were as follows:
He had accrued 17 years and 11 months qualifying service between April 1999 and 
March 2017;
The scheme pension provided was based on his final salary, pensionable service 
and benefit accrual rate  as at the date of leaving the scheme in March 2017, his 
annual scheme pension was £9,495.63. The scheme pension comprised several 
elements, each part of which would be revalued by a prescribed amount over the 
term to the scheme normal retirement age of 65 and, once in payment, would 
escalate annually by a prescribed amount;
Payment of benefits before age 65 would be subject to an early retirement reduction 
on a sliding scale  in simple terms, the earlier benefits were taken, the greater the 
reduction applied to the scheme pension. Broadly, this meant a 30% reduction would 
apply to the scheme pension if benefits were taken at age 55 and a 18% reduction at 
age 60;
The estimated revalued annual scheme pension payable by the BSPS at age 65 was 
£15,870 or a reduced pension of £10,964, plus tax-free cash of £73,099. And at age 
55 it was £9,174 or a reduced pension of £6,791, plus tax-free cash of £45,277;
In the event the BSPS fell into the PPF, the estimated revalued annual scheme 
pension payable by the PPF at age 65 was £13,061 or a reduced pension of 
£10,302, plus tax-free cash of £68,678. And at age 55 it was £9,204 or a reduced 
pension of £7,709, plus tax-free cash of £51,393;
The cash equivalent transfer value of his safeguarded benefits was £244,556.80. 
Mr C was concerned about what the announcement by Tata Steel meant for the security of 
his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS. He was introduced to Burley to provide advice. He 
initially met one of its advisers in October 2017. A fact find document and attitude to risk 
questionnaire were completed which recorded the following information about Mr C:
He was aged 43, in good health and married. His wife was aged 44 and also in good 
health. They had two financially dependent children aged 11 and 9;
He was employed full-time by Tata Steel and was paid gross annual income of about 
£33,000. His wife was employed full-time in a different industry and paid gross 
annual income of about £22,000;
Their assets comprised the marital home valued at £180,000 and about £12,000 in 
cash savings. They didnt have any other savings or investments;
Their liabilities comprised a £100,000 mortgage on the marital home which was on 
course to be repaid in 2029 when Mr C would be age 55 and a car loan of about 
£7,000. Their monthly outgoings were about £2,000 which left surplus monthly 
income of about £1,500;
In addition to the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, he had been a 
member of Tata Steels defined contribution (DC) pension scheme since                   
April 2017. The total annual contribution into his DC plan was 16% of his gross 
annual salary. No details were recorded about his wifes retirement provision;
He had no previous experience of investing. His risk profile was initially determined to 
be Moderately Adventurous Investor. After discussion, Mr C confirmed that he 
wanted to take a more cautious approach and so his risk profile was agreed as 
Moderate Investor; and
His capacity for loss was determined to be Moderate on the basis that You have 
sufficient assets outside of your portfolio and an investment time horizon far enough 
in the future to withstand small to medium losses without any detrimental effect on 
your living standards.In the fact find document, it was noted:
[Mr C] would like to be able to retire at age 60, possibly earlier. When he retires, he would 
like to be able to take higher levels of income to age 67 and then when the State pension 
starts, reduce withdrawals by the same amount. He would also use his tax-free cash to 
reduce/repay his outstanding mortgage, then use the remaining tax-free cash to supplement 
income. [Mr C] doesnt trust the British Steel Pension Scheme. Hes been in it for around              
18 years and seen too many changes. He doesnt trust British Steel or Tata Steel.
In November 2017, Burley issued a suitability report to Mr C in which it recommended that 
he transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS to a PPP. The report 
confirmed Mr Cs reasons for wanting to transfer to a PPP rather than the BSPS2 or PPF, as 
follows:
You have received information on these options [BSPS2 and PPF] and are concerned 
about the effect of either of these options and would like to take control of the funds now.
Furthermore, in future you would like to be able to access benefits where you are able to 
withdraw sums and take advantage of the new pension freedom and flexibility rules. You 
accept that this is a high transfer value and would like to take advantage of this.
Your personal circumstances are such that you are adamant that you wish to retire 
before the scheme retirement age of 65. You also want to ensure that you have flexibility 
at the point when you do retire to be able to take more income prior to when state 
pension starts and reduce after.
You are wanting the flexibility of being able to vary your income on a year by year basis. 
In particular, you would like to be able to take more income in the earlier years to enable 
you to fund your lifestyle while you are young enough and fit enough to do so. In 
particular you would like to be able to take more income until age 67 when your state 
pension starts. At that time you are happy to reduce your withdrawals by the same 
amount as the state benefits in order to attempt to make your fund last longer. 
You also want to be able to access your tax free lump sum to be able to repay your 
mortgage at that time.
If you go with the option of going in to the PPF then this may not be possible. If you go in 
to the new BSPS2 then this may be possible, however we don't know what the increases 
in pensions will be. Neither do we know what the early retirement penalties will be.
The report confirmed Burleys reasons for its recommendation as follows:
While invested your fund will benefit from tax advantaged growth
Benefits can be taken at any time from age 55
25% of the uncrystallised pension fund can be taken as a Pension Commencement 
Lump Sum (tax free cash) payment
A broad range of investment opportunities offering enhanced flexibility
You will benefit from much greater freedom and flexibility regards accessing your 
pension benefits
There will be no death benefit charge on any uncrystallised pension fund if death is 
before age 75 and the value of pension benefits is within the lifetime allowanceThe costs associated with the recommendation were set out in the suitability report, as 
follows:
Initial charge
£3,668.35 (or 1.5%) initial adviser charge
Ongoing annual charges deducted from the PPP fund value 
The ongoing charge was 1.13%, broken down as follows:
0.50% ongoing adviser charge payable to be business that introduced Mr C to Burley
0.35% platform charge
0.15% DFM charge
0.13% fund manager charge
Mr C accepted the recommendation, following which the transfer to the PPP was completed 
in March 2018 after the provider received the transfer value of £244,556.80. Burley 
recommended that the transfer value be managed by a Discretionary Fund Manager 
(DFM). This was invested in a tracker balanced portfolio to align with Mr Cs Moderate 
risk profile.
This complaint
During 2021, Mr C became concerned about the suitability of the pension transfer advice 
given to him by Burley after he had seen articles regarding former BSPS members who were 
given poor advice. Burley didnt uphold this complaint since it was satisfied its advice 
enabled Mr C to achieve his objectives. It summarised that its recommendation provided               
Mr C with flexibility to access pension benefits earlier than he wouldve been able to under 
the alternative options of the PPF and BSPS2 with the aim of repaying his mortgage earlier, 
thus reducing his outgoings which would likely enhance his quality of life. Furthermore, it 
stated that the investment performance achieved by the PPP since the transfer had 
exceeded the critical yields attached and so, at that point in time, he was in a better financial 
position.
One of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended that it be upheld. This 
was because he thought that Burleys recommendation to transfer wasnt clearly 
demonstrated to be in Mr Cs best interests. He noted that the critical yield figures attached 
to the transaction indicated that there was limited potential for Mr C to be better off as a 
result of the pension transfer. He reasoned that Mr C was about 17 years away from his 
preferred retirement age of 60, so there wasnt any urgency to transfer at that time, 
particularly since there was a lack of clarity about what his circumstances and retirement 
income needs would be so far into the future. In addition, he wasnt persuaded that it was 
suitable for Mr C, who was an inexperienced investor, to relinquish guaranteed income and 
instead take on the investment risks associated with the pension transfer to a PPP for what 
he considered to be generic objectives. And he noted that Mr Cs mortgage was due to be 
repaid when he was aged 55 so he didnt need to maximise the tax-free lump sum available 
from the PPP at age 60 for mortgage repayment purposes.
To put things right, our investigator recommended that Burley carry out a redress calculation 
in line with the FCAs Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate 
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers on the basis that Mr C opted for the BSPS2 and 
would be a 20% income taxpayer in retirement. In addition, he recommended that Burley pay Mr C £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its unsuitable 
recommendation.
Mr C accepted our investigators assessment. But Burley disagreed and provided substantial 
additional comments and evidence in response. In summary, it remained satisfied that its 
advice was suitable because it met Mr Cs objectives. It stated that, in the event this 
complaint is ultimately upheld, any redress calculation should use the PPF as the 
comparator scheme and not the BSPS2, as suggested by our investigator. This was 
because, in its view, the BSPS2 didnt exist at the time of its advice and was merely a 
proposal and not guaranteed to go ahead and the PPF was the better option for members 
who wanted to retire early in any event. Our investigator considered Burleys additional 
comments but wasnt persuaded to change his opinion. Since agreement couldnt be 
reached, he stated that this complaint would be referred to an ombudsman for review.
While waiting for this complaint to be allocated to an ombudsman, our investigator contacted
the parties in connection with the FCAs consultation launched on 2 August 2022 regarding
new pension transfer redress guidance. The investigator asked Mr C that in the event this 
complaint is ultimately upheld, whether he preferred redress to be calculated on the current 
methodology or the updated guidance expected to be implemented in early 2023. The 
investigator told Mr C that if we didnt receive an answer that wed assume hed prefer 
redress on the current methodology set out in Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms 
on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. As at the date of this final 
decision, the Mr C didnt confirm which option he preferred.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards,
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single
point raised by Mr C and Burley. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I 
dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance
Burley was authorised and regulated by the FCA at the time it provided its recommendation 
to Mr C. This meant that when it advised him it was required to follow the rules and consider 
the guidance in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) section in the FCAs 
Handbook.
Primarily, Burley was required under COBS 2.1.1R to act honestly, fairly and professionally 
in accordance with the best interests of its client in its dealings with Mr C. The suitability 
rules and guidance that applied when Burley provided its recommendation to Mr C were set 
out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance are to ensure that businesses take 
reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their clients needs and to ensure 
theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond their investment objectives and 
risk profile. To ensure that this is the case, and in line with the requirements in COBS 
9.2.2R, the business must gather the necessary information for it to be confident its
advice is suitable. Broadly speaking, this section of COBS 9 sets out the requirement for aregulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process.
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to pension transfers involving
safeguarded benefits, as was applicable to Mr Cs case  these were contained in COBS 19.
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension
scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client
to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with
safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able
to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the
factors that do and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case no
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6G set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the clients
best interests. [my emphasis added]
COBS 19.1.7G also stated:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved
to replicate the benefits being given up.
And COBS 19.1.8G stated that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal 
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.Businesses are required to follow these rules and consider the guidance because the FCA 
considers safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and 
guidance, businesses advising on pension transfers should start by assuming that the 
existing DB pension scheme is suitable and to only recommend a transfer, which converts 
safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients 
best interests.
In assessing the suitability of Burleys recommendation, its necessary for me to have due 
regard to the FCAs rules and guidance applicable at the time it advised him in late 2017.
In responding to this complaint Burley stated that in June 2017 the FCA launched a 
consultation, CP17/16: Advising on Pension Transfers, which included a suggestion about 
removing the existing starting assumption guidance that a pension transfer will not be 
suitable and replacing it with a neutral starting position. Burley stated that the FCA hadnt yet 
published feedback on that consultation by the time it advised Mr C. 
I think Burley referenced the FCAs consultation to indicate that the regulator was 
considering softening its approach to pension transfers at the time it advised Mr C. If this 
was its intention, then I dont see how this is relevant in deciding this complaint. This is 
because the FCA didnt remove or alter its starting assumption guidance, as confirmed in 
PS18/6: Advising on Pension Transfers  feedback on CP17/16 and final rules and 
guidance published in March 2018. In that Policy Statement the FCA stated, We have 
decided not to proceed with our proposal on the starting assumption.Our recent 
supervisory work has shown significant evidence of unsuitable advice being provided. This 
includes a review of advice given to British Steel Pension Scheme members. Given our 
concerns about the significant proportion of unsuitable advice, we do not consider it is 
appropriate to change this assumption at the present time. So, its the case that during the 
period Burley advised Mr C, the FCA expected it to start by assuming a pension transfer 
wouldnt be suitable for him.
Mr Cs situation
The situation for Mr C wasnt normal because the existing DB pension scheme, the BSPS, 
was closing. So he was essentially forced to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits to 
a new scheme. He had three options, as set out in the Time to Choose pack issued to him 
in October 2017:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for individuals such as Mr C. Many of 
these individuals were in a vulnerable position due to the uncertainty surrounding the future 
of the BSPS. I think the uncertainty only served to emphasise the need at that time for a 
balanced assessment of the options available and ultimately the provision of suitable advice. 
Its my view that any concerns Mr C had about the security of his safeguarded benefits 
shouldve been addressed and appropriately managed by the professional party in the 
transaction, Burley.
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr C to retain guaranteed income, albeit at a lower level 
than provided by the BSPS. There were differences between the PPF and the BSPS2. For 
deferred members below the scheme normal retirement age, like Mr C, the PPF would 
provide compensation based on 90% of their accrued pension at the scheme normal 
retirement age (in effect a 10% reduction in benefits). The BSPS2 didnt apply such a 
reduction. The BSPS2 also provided the potential for discretionary increases to the accrued pension, a higher level of spouses pension and the option to transfer to an alternative 
pension to convert to flexible benefits at a later date, if then deemed suitable.
So while the situation was somewhat unusual, Mr C still had the option to retain guaranteed 
benefits in either the PPF or BSPS2. Based on Mr Cs age, circumstances and uncertainty 
about whether he could retire earlier than age 65 (which Ill come on to later), its my view 
that he wouldve been better off choosing the BSPS2 instead of the PPF because of the 
higher level of income it would pay at age 65.
I dont believe that the circumstances surrounding the BSPS altered the FCAs position or its 
expectations of firms. Given the FCAs view on safeguarded benefits and what was known at 
that time, its my fair and reasonable opinion that Burley shouldve started its advice process 
by assuming the BSPS2 was likely to be the most suitable option for Mr C and to only 
recommend a transfer to the PPP if it could clearly demonstrate it was in his best interests, 
as referenced in COBS 19.1.6G.
Mr Cs objectives
Based on the fact find document and suitability report, Mr C had two broad objectives 
regarding his preserved benefits, summarised as follows:
Control  He was concerned about the level of his benefits being reduced further or 
the BSPS falling into the PPF which would result in a 10% reduction in his benefits. 
He had lost trust in Tata Steel. Due to these concerns, he wanted control over his 
pension benefits by transferring to a PPP.
 
Flexibility  He wanted the ability to take flexible income and tax-free lump sums 
from age 60 or possibly earlier without penalty. He was concerned that if he didnt 
transfer to a PPP at that time that he could lose the option of flexible benefits by the 
time he retired.
I recognise that Mr Cs safeguarded benefits was ultimately his money to do with as he saw 
fit. However, he was relying on Burley to provide expert, balanced information and advice, 
taking into account all the information available to it at that time  so that he could then make 
an informed decision. I understand that there will be instances where a client seeks financial 
advice with preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health of an employer or 
DB pension scheme but, as the professional party, Burley was tasked with rationally 
addressing those concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of the available 
options. 
In my view, financial planning isnt simply about wish fulfilment and facilitating whatever 
course of action a client wishes to take. If an advising business considers a course of action 
to be unsuitable for their client, or otherwise not in their best interests, it has a choice not to 
facilitate the transaction.
Transfer value analysis 
One of the key components in determining the suitability of a pension transfer is assessing 
the financial viability of the proposed transaction. The transfer value analysis system 
(TVAS) rules applied at the time Burley advised Mr C. This required it to carry out a 
transfer value analysis to calculate the critical yield applicable to the proposed transfer. The 
critical yield is the annual rate of investment return required on the invested transfer value, 
after charges, to match the capitalised value of the benefits offered by the DB pension 
scheme on the assumption that the value of the alternative pension is used to secure a 
lifetime annuity at the scheme normal retirement age  the higher the critical yield, the less likely that the alternative pension will achieve sufficient investment growth to match the 
revalued pension payable by the DB pension scheme.
Burley calculated the following critical yield figures for Mr C:
Scheme At age 55 based on 
taking a reduced 
pension and maximum 
tax-free cash At age 55 
based on 
taking a full 
pensionAt age 65 based on 
taking a reduced 
pension and maximum 
tax-free cashAt age 65 
based on 
taking a full 
pension
BSPS 5.29% 6.94% 4.16% 5.14%
PPF 6.46% 6.96% 4.18% 3.86%
The critical yield figures for the BSPS2 werent calculated. But it was known at the time 
Burley advised Mr C that the BSPS2 would pay a higher level of benefits than the PPF but 
lower than the BSPS at age 65, so the figures for the BSPS2 likely fell somewhere in 
between those shown above.
I note that the TVAS report includes the initial adviser charge of 1.5%, annual adviser charge 
of 0.5%, platform charge of 0.35% and fund manager charge of 0.13%. But it doesnt appear 
to include the annual DFM charge of 0.15%. If my understanding is correct, this means that 
the critical yield figures presented to Mr C were understated  this is because the invested 
transfer value would need to achieve a higher level of investment growth than stated to 
account for the DFM charge.
Burleys recommendation to Mr C was provided to him after the FCA gave instructions in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss 
assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to 
October 2017 similar rates were published on our website. While businesses weren't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider that they 
provide a useful indication of what growth rates wouldve been considered reasonably
achievable when the advice was given in this case. The closest discount rate which I'm able
to refer to and published by this service for the period before October 2017 is 4.5% based on
Mr C taking benefits at the scheme normal retirement age of 65. Furthermore, the FCA's 
projection rate for pensions at the time was 8% per year for the upper rate, 5% per year for 
the middle rate and 2% per year for the lower rate. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr C's 
Moderate attitude to investment risk and the investment timeframe to age 65. Based on 
these factors, in conjunction with my view that the critical yield figures are understated as 
explained above, I think the critical yield figures attached to the proposed transfer meant that 
there was limited scope to match the benefits payable by the BSPS2, let alone exceed them.
So, from an economic point of view, its questionable whether there was a reasonable 
prospect that Mr C would be financially better off by transferring on a like-for-like basis when 
compared to the scheme pension. I acknowledge that Burley stated the investment 
performance achieved by the PPP since the transfer had exceeded the critical yields noted 
above and so this proves transferring was in his best interests. In my view, subsequent 
investment performance of the PPP is irrelevant in deciding this complaint. This is because 
Im required to make a decision regarding suitability based on the contemporaneous 
evidence. Put another way, investment performance doesnt transform an unsuitable 
recommendation into a suitable one and vice versa.
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving pension transfer advice,
as was set out in COBS 19.1.7B (G). A reasonable prospect of the critical yield being met orexceeded wouldnt necessarily mean that the transfer was suitable, and, conversely, there
might be other considerations which mean a pension transfer is suitable, despite providing
overall lower benefits. Ill now go on to consider this in the context of Mr Cs recorded 
objectives.
Control objective
It was recorded that Mr C didnt trust Tata Steel after experiencing too many changes to 
the BSPS. As a result, he was concerned about the viability of the BSPS2 and PPF options 
and wanted instead to have control of his safeguarded benefits. The suitability report noted 
that Mr C was concerned if he transferred to the PPF he would be stuck in that scheme 
and that the BSPS2 was also at risk of being transferred to the PPF. It was also noted in the 
suitability report that if Mr C transferred to either the PPF or BSPS his pre-April 1997 
benefits wouldnt increase in payment.
Its clear that one of Mr Cs main motivations for considering a pension transfer was due to 
his concerns about the BSPS and the risk that this might fall into the PPF. I accept that such 
concerns were common among steelworkers at the time, and that it wouldve been a major 
motivation behind many of them transferring out. So I can understand why Mr C wanted to 
have control over his benefits by transferring to a PPP. 
That being said, Burleys advice was provided in November 2017, after the Time to Choose 
pack had been issued to members. As noted above, I think that the risk of the BSPS falling 
into the PPF had receded by a large extent by that point, as the RAA had been approved 
and the BSPS2 was being proposed primarily because it could provide benefits in most 
situations that were higher than PPF benefits. But, in any event, I dont consider a transfer to 
the PPF was an outcome for Mr C to avoid at all costs. Ill explain why.
The PPF was introduced by the government in 2005 as a lifeboat scheme to protect
members of DB pension schemes with the promise of providing a minimum level of benefits.
The revaluation and escalation rates are set by law. Depending on his age on transfer to the
PPF, Mr C could expect to receive a minimum of 90% of his scheme pension, although this
would be affected by the revaluation and escalation rates under the PPF. This contrasted
with the recommended PPP where theres no promise of a minimum level of benefits
payable. At the time of Burleys recommendation, the PPFs financial position remained 
robust. So there wasnt any reason at that time to question the financial viability of the PPF 
to provide benefits in the future.
A transfer to the BSPS2 wouldve also removed any immediate concerns Mr C had about the 
PPF. After all, the whole reason the BSPS2 was conceived was to provide a new long-term 
DB pension scheme for former members of the BSPS. And if it was the case, in the future, 
that the BSPS2 was at risk of being transferred to the PPF, then I think it likely that, similarly 
to the BSPS, members would be given the opportunity to transfer out to an alternative 
scheme before any transfer to the PPF occurred. So I dont think that there was any 
immediate concern about options disappearing for Mr C or that there was an urgency to 
transfer to a PPP at that time to avoid a transfer to the PPF. In my view, Mr C was reliant on 
Burley to provide a fair and balanced assessment of the BSPS2 and PPF and to act in his 
best interests in this regard. This ought to have involved discussing with Mr C the features, 
risks and benefits of those alternative options and allaying his misapprehensions. 
If Mr C was concerned about his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the PPF which 
would result in him losing 10% of his scheme pension, then I question why he would accept 
the risk of transferring to a PPP which exposed him to unlimited downside risks where the 
loss could be significantly greater than 10%. This simply doesnt make sense to me and 
suggests that he didnt have the knowledge and experience to understand the features, risks and benefits of the PPF compared to the pension transfer. He was relying on Burley to 
provide expert advice on this point, but I think it failed to do this. In my view, the suitability 
report didnt deal with Mr Cs concerns about the PPF. So he likely thought that a transfer to 
the PPF was an outcome to avoid at all costs and probably reinforced his view a transfer to a 
PPP was the best course of action.
As for Burleys comment about pre-April 1997 benefits, this was irrelevant for Mr C since he 
didnt have any such benefits because he joined the BSPS in April 1999. So, on this specific 
point, Burley incorrectly told Mr C that there would be a reduction in his benefits under the 
PPF when this wasnt true.
In summary, I think that Burley failed to adequately allay Mr Cs misapprehensions and that 
he therefore made the decision to transfer to the PPP from an uninformed position regarding 
the BSPS2 and PPF options.
Flexibility objective
It was recorded that Mr C wanted the ability to take flexible income and tax-free lump sums 
from age 60 or possibly earlier. And that he wanted to avoid being penalised for taking 
benefits earlier than age 65 under the alternative options. He was concerned that if he didnt 
transfer to a PPP at that time that he could lose the option of flexible benefits by the time he 
retired.
If benefits were taken early under the BSPS (and similarly the BSPS2) then the income paid 
to Mr C would be reduced. Burley characterised the reduction as a penalty. But the reduction 
wasnt a penalty but applied to reflect the fact that the scheme would have to support the 
income for longer than anticipated, and to protect the interests of scheme members 
generally. Burley also portrayed the PPP option as allowing for early retirement earlier than 
age 65 without the penalties which would be applied to the scheme pension. The reality 
was of course that the PPP wouldve had less time to grow if accessed earlier than age 65 
and any resulting income would need to last longer. I cannot see that this was adequately 
explained to Mr C so that he could understand accessing any of the available options early 
would likely lead to reduced retirement income during his lifetime compared to taking 
benefits at age 65.
I think its clear that Mr C was attracted to a flexible arrangement with the ability to retire 
early. Many people might want to retire early. But this can only happen if they have the 
financial means to support themselves in retirement. Financial planning generally involves 
managing client expectations and a need for compromises. Mr C may have wanted to retire 
from age 60 but it was for Burley, as the expert, to establish if this was feasible and to 
manage his expectations and help him modify his objectives to reflect the reality of his 
circumstances, if necessary. Burley recorded that Mr C wanted to retire from age 60 but it 
didnt establish what his core income need would be from that age based on his expected 
fixed outgoings and discretionary spending  without establishing Mr Cs income need its 
unclear to me how Burley was able to demonstrate that early retirement under the PPP was 
achievable. 
While I dont doubt Mr C wouldve liked the flexibility to retire from age 60 or possibly earlier, 
plans can change over such a long period of time. The further away from retirement an 
individual is, the harder it is to establish their likely expected fixed outgoings and 
discretionary spending and therefore what their income need is. With such a substantial time 
horizon until pension benefits could be accessed, it makes the case for a pension transfer  
for the sake of achieving early retirement  more difficult to justify. Based on the information available in November 2017, I think it wouldve been very difficult 
to predict with any degree of certainty what Mr Cs expected expenditure during retirement 
would be  and therefore what realistic level of income he would need from 60 onwards to 
cover this and whether, if fact, he could retire early. Mr Cs safeguarded benefits accounted 
for 17 years and 11 months qualifying service. I think its fair to say, given his wider financial 
situation, that when the time came to retire that hed likely rely on the value of his 
safeguarded benefits to generate a minimum level of core income in retirement. Where there 
is such a need for a minimum level of income its difficult to justify relinquishing guaranteed 
income in exchange for flexible income that doesnt have any guarantees, particularly where 
the clients retirement income need wasnt adequately established.
In any event, Mr C couldnt access the money in the PPP until age 55 at the earliest. So I 
dont think there was any need to transfer at that time. Had Burley advised Mr C to transfer 
to the BSPS2 he wouldve maintained safeguarded benefits and retained the option to 
transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then deemed suitable, when he could immediately access 
benefits and, crucially, determine his retirement income and lump sum needs with far greater 
accuracy than at age 43. I think this is a key point. This approach wouldve entailed 
significantly less risk for Mr C.
Transferring to the PPP led to the investment, inflation and longevity risks associated with 
providing the retirement benefits moving from the DB pension scheme to Mr C for the 
following 22-year period to age 65 but for no clearly defined advantage compared to the 
alternative option of transferring to the BSPS2. It also led to Mr C concentrating all his 
private retirement provision on a DC basis which offered no guarantees but was based 
entirely on investment performance and charges. 
Burley categorised Mr C as having an Moderate capacity for loss. That categorisation was 
at odds with his financial situation. I acknowledge that he was an active member of the Tata 
Steel DC pension scheme and was on course to receive a full State pension, but the value of 
those benefits at retirement would likely represent the smaller proportion of Mr Cs overall 
retirement provision. Given the importance of Mr Cs safeguarded benefits, I think its fair to 
say that he had a very low capacity for loss because a reduction in the value of his benefits 
would likely have a materially detrimental effect on his standard of living in retirement. I note 
that no details were recorded about his wifes retirement provision so it may be that case that 
she too will be reliant, to some extent, on Mr Cs retirement income.
Based on the information available in 2017, its my view that there was insufficient 
information and analysis to show that Mr C could retire early from age 60 and that Burley 
demonstrated a pension transfer to achieve this objective was clearly suitable.
That said, if it was a genuine requirement that Mr C have access to flexible benefits, I make 
the following observation. Mr C had been an active member of the Tata Steel DC pension 
scheme since April 2017. He and Tata Steel were, in total, contributing 16% of his gross 
annual salary of £33,000 into his DC pension plan every year, which was about £5,300 in 
monetary terms. This would increase in line with increases in his salary. It was noted that             
Mr C intended to continue working until his preferred retirement age of 60. So I think its fair 
to say that, at that time, he would continue to be employed by Tata Steel for the foreseeable 
future. And in the event he left that employment, I think its likely that hed find alternative 
employment and, with the legal requirements of auto-enrolment, would join a different DC 
pension scheme and pay a minimum of 8% of his earnings into it. 
So over the 17-year period to age 60, its likely that Mr C would build up significant DC 
pension savings. Based on contributions alone, I estimate that about £90,000 would be 
invested in his DC pension plan over that timeframe. This ignores likely increases in his 
salary (and therefore higher pension contributions) and investment growth. So if Mr C did have a need for flexible benefits from age 60, I think this couldve been met in 
the first instance by using his likely significant DC pension savings. This course of action 
wouldve enabled Mr C to maintain his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2 to provide 
guarantee, escalating income to meet his core income need in retirement. The estimated 
revalued annual scheme pension payable at age 65 was £10,964 for the BSPS and £10,302 
for the PPF, assuming Mr C opted to take tax-free cash. I think its likely that the revalued 
pension payable by the BSPS2 at age 65 likely fell somewhere in between these figures. 
Then at age 67 he would likely receive the full State pension, providing further, secure and 
escalating income. And if it turned out the DC pension savings didnt provide adequate 
income for the full five-year period between age 60 and 65, Mr C couldve taken his benefits 
from BSPS2 at some point in between, meaning the early retirement factor wouldnt be as 
great as at age 60. 
The alternative, blended approach Ive suggested above may have enabled Mr C to achieve 
his flexibility objective but with significantly less risk. I havent seen any evidence that Burley 
adequately considered and discounted this alternative blended approach in meeting Mr Cs 
objectives.
Another reason Burley recommended the transfer to a PPP was to maximise the tax-free 
cash available from the PPP (compared to the BSPS) to enable him to repay his mortgage 
when he retired at his preferred age of 60. But in the fact find document it was recorded that 
Mr Cs mortgage was on course to be repaid in 2029 when he would be age 55  which is 
the earliest age at which he could access benefits in the PPP in any event. So it seems that                 
Mr C wouldnt need any tax-free cash from the PPP for mortgage repayment purposes, 
further undermining the case for a pension transfer.
In conclusion, the contemporaneous evidence simply doesnt support the position as to why 
flexibility and early retirement objectives wouldve been a sufficiently compelling reason for 
Mr C to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees at that time. I havent seen any evidence that 
shows the pension transfer to the PPP served any actual need given that Mr Cs retirement 
income need wasnt established, and his mortgage would be repaid by retirement, or that he 
gained any clearly defined advantage compared to the alternative option of transferring to 
the BSPS2. 
Death benefits
While a preferred change in the shape and format of death benefits wasnt explicitly 
recorded in the fact find document or suitability report as an objective for Mr C, I want to 
address this.
The recommended PPP offered flexible death benefits. Based on the applicable tax rules, if 
death occurred under age 75 the benefits are paid free of income tax  after age 75 the 
benefits are taxed at the beneficiarys marginal rate of income tax. Its fair to say that 
immediately following the transfer to the PPP and for the period until Mr C withdrew 
retirement benefits, the death benefits available would be significant (subject to investment 
performance) due to the simple fact he couldnt access and deplete the fund value.
But Mr C was recorded as being in good health. So he could expect life expectancy into his 
80s. Burley established that Mr C had a life expectancy of age 86. There werent any 
immediate health concerns that indicated a pension transfer was a suitable course of action 
at that time.
As noted above, the value of Mr Cs safeguarded benefits would represent the backbone of 
his retirement provision by the time he came to retire. Withdrawing money from the PPP from age 60 to meet his income and lump sum needs would likely mean that the size of the 
fund remaining in later years  when death is more likely  could be much smaller than 
expected. 
If Mr C wanted to provide a lump sum to his family on his death, then life cover couldve 
achieved the same objective of providing a lump sum while enabling him to maintain 
safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2. I note that he had disposable income available every 
month after paying his bills which he couldve used to pay for life cover to achieve the death 
lump sum objective. I can see that Burley obtained quotes for level term assurance to age 65 
and whole of life cover based on a sum assured of £244,557 to reflect the transfer value. It 
was noted that Mr C rejected these options due to cost.
It appears that Burley assumed Mr C required life cover that matched the transfer value to 
the scheme normal retirement age of 65. I cannot see evidence that Burley adequately 
quantified Mr Cs death lump sum need taking into account any existing cover, over what 
term or how this might change over time. So cover of £244,557 may have been 
inappropriate. 
But, in any case, I understand that through his employment Mr C had death in service life 
cover based on a multiple of four times his salary, meaning a lump sum of about £132,000 
would be paid in the event he died while still employed by Tata Steel  this was payable 
regardless of whether his safeguarded benefits were transferred to BSPS2, PPF or a PPP. 
In addition, Mr Cs BSPS contributions of £38,050 plus interest at 3% compound would be 
returned to his wife and she would also receive the value of his Tata Steel DC pension plan 
as a lump sum. In addition, she would receive a 50% spouses pension had he opted for the 
BSPS2.
So it seems to me that in the immediate future, certainly while Mr C remained employed by 
Tata Steel, that a lump sum of at least £170,000 would be paid on his death. It appears that 
Mr C intended to remain employed by Tata Steel until he retired, so I think its fair to say that 
there wasnt any expectation the death in service benefits would disappear in the 
foreseeable future.
This leads me to conclude that there wasnt any immediate need to transfer at that time to 
provide death benefits in a different format bearing in mind the cover already in place while 
Mr C remained employed by Tata Steel. 
While I understand that death benefits are important to consumers, the priority here, in my 
opinion, was to advise Mr C about what was best for his own retirement provision. A pension 
is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. Its my view that Mr C had no health 
issues at the time Burley advised him which might reasonably have prompted him to 
relinquish the guarantees attached to his own retirement income for the sake of an 
enhanced safety net for his family. So Im not convinced there was any real merit in him 
transferring to a PPP at that time to provide a lump sum death benefit.
If properly informed, would Mr C have transferred anyway?
For the reasons explained above, Im not persuaded that a pension transfer was clearly in 
Mr Cs best interests. As a result, I think its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint.
In potential mitigation of Burleys advice, Ive also thought about whether Mr C, if placed in a 
fully informed position, would nevertheless have decided to transfer the value of his 
safeguarded benefits to a PPP. This was a complex transaction involving many factors 
which Mr C, as a layperson, wouldnt have been familiar. Its my view, given his lack of 
investment knowledge and experience, that he was heavily reliant on Burley, as the professional party in the transaction, to take those factors into account and provide suitable, 
balanced advice. 
Mr C might have chosen to transfer against advice on the basis of his concerns. However, 
bearing in mind that many members transferred to the BSPS2 even though such concerns 
were widely held, and bearing in mind also his lack of investment experience and Moderate 
risk profile, I dont think, on balance, that he wouldve insisted on transferring. Given Mr Cs 
reliance on Burley, I think its likely he wouldve accepted a recommendation for the BSPS2 
had it advised him to take that course of action.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Burley to put Mr C, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. My view is
aligned with that of our investigator.
Our investigator concluded that, if properly advised, Mr C wouldve transferred to the BSPS2 
and his benefits would now be preserved in that scheme. In response, Burley stated that any 
redress calculation should use the PPF as the comparator scheme and not the BSPS2, as 
suggested by our investigator. This was because, in its view, the BSPS2 didnt exist at the 
time of its advice and was merely a proposal and not guaranteed to go ahead and the PPF 
was the better option for members who wanted to retire early in any event. While some 
information on the benefits of BSPS2 were still to be confirmed, its my view that by           
October 2017 the risk of the BSPS falling into the PPF had receded by a large extent, as Ive 
explained above. So I think Burley shouldve considered the BSPS2 as a viable option.
There were differences between the BSPS2 and PPF. These differences meant that the PPF 
was likely the better option for unmarried, deferred members who expected to retire early or 
take the maximum tax-free cash available even allowing for the 10% reduction in the starting 
entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the better option for married pensioners and deferred 
members who expected to draw benefits at or close to the scheme normal retirement age of 
65. Given the timeframe of at least 17 years to age 60 when Mr C wanted to retire, Im not 
convinced that it could be reasonably determined in 2017 that the PPF was the likely better 
option for Mr C. And so I think, given the lack of clarity surrounding Mr Cs ability to retire 
early, the BSPS2 was likely the better option for him based on what was known at the time 
and that at age 65 the BSPS2 would provide a higher level of benefits than the PPF.
In summary, as noted in my findings above, I think its likely that, properly advised, Mr C 
wouldve envisaged accessing any DC pension savings in the first instance to meet his 
income and lump sum needs before starting to take his safeguarded benefits from the 
BSPS2. And so, with the aim of placing him into the correct financial position, I think its fair 
and reasonable that the benefits offered by the BSPS2 should be used for comparison 
purposes. As such, the calculation on the basis of entering the BSPS2 should be carried out 
using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of the actual calculation. This should 
be on the basis Mr C takes benefits at the BSPS2 normal retirement age of 65.
FCA consultation 
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB pension transfer redress 
guidance and set out its proposals in a consultation document  CP22/15-calculating redress 
for non-compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA stated that it considers the current redress methodology in
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 remains appropriate and fundamental changes arent
necessary. However, its review identified some areas where it considers it could improve orclarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress.
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance  https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come 
into effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has stated that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 while the consultation takes place.
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into
force after the consultation has concluded.
We previously asked Mr C whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance and rules to be published. He didnt 
make a choice. So, as set out previously, Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want to wait 
for any new guidance. Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate 
and, if a loss is identified, will provide fair redress for Mr C.
Burley must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the FCAs pension
review guidance as updated by it in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how
to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. This calculation should be carried
out as at the date of this final decision and using the most recent financial assumptions. In 
accordance with the FCAs expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an 
appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Cs acceptance of this 
final decision.
Burley may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain
Mr Cs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the BSPS on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P entitlement. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be paid 
into Mr Cs PPP. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax 
relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the PPP if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the PPP isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it should 
be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been taken as 
tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed to be 20%, as previously stated by our investigator. So making a 
notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
If this complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance
or rules come into effect, Id expect Burley to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
In addition, Burley should pay Mr C £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by 
its unsuitable recommendation.
The compensation amount must, where possible, be paid to Mr C within 90 days of the date
Burley receives notification of his acceptance of this final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of this 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Burley 
to pay Mr C.Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. Where I uphold
a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs
that I consider are appropriate.
Where I consider that fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed
£160,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Burley Financial 
Services Limited to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000. Where the compensation amount doesnt exceed £160,000, I 
would additionally require Burley Financial Services Limited to pay Mr C any interest on that 
amount in full, as set out above. Where the compensation amount already exceeds 
£160,000, I would only require Burley Financial Services Limited to pay Mr C any interest as 
set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Burley Financial Services Limited pays Mr C the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr C. If Mr C accepts 
this final decision, the money award becomes binding on Burley Financial Services Limited. 
My recommendation wouldnt be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept this final 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this final decision.
Burley Financial Services Limited must provide to Mr C a breakdown of the loss assessment 
calculation in a simple, easily understandable format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman