DRN-3207481
The complaint
Mr Y has complained that Charles Stanley and Co Ltd (Charles Stanley) didnt provide him 
with adequate information and guidance around the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) 
of his pension fund when he transferred out of his Defined Benefit (DB) scheme.
What happened
In 2017 Mr Y was in contact with Charles Stanley to discuss his pension transfer options. 
Mr Y has confirmed that his objectives were to increase his death benefits for his family. The 
paperwork from the time also shows Mr Y wanted to remove all concerns about the 
sustainability of the DB scheme fund. Mr Y was advised to transfer out of his DB scheme 
and into a self-invested personal pension (SIPP).
In 2019 Mr Y raised a complaint with Charles Stanley. In summary My Y said that at the time 
of the transfer he thought the CETV was calculated on his salary when he departed from the 
scheme, and the years of service. But he had since found that the CETV was market linked. 
Mr Y explained that had he been aware that the calculation of the CETV was market linked 
he would have kept track of the market and taken the CETV when the value was higher. He 
would not have completed the transfer immediately, and as such has lost out financially 
because of Charles Stanley not clearly explaining how the CETV had been calculated.
As Mr Y was unable to resolve his complaint directly with Charles Stanley he brought it to 
our service. Our Investigator considered Mr Ys complaint but didnt think it should be 
upheld. She said it wasnt reasonable to expect Charles Stanley to advise Mr Y on whether 
he should transfer out of the DB scheme based on potential market changes, or expect it to 
predict which direction the market would go in.
Mr Y disagreed he maintained that Charles Stanley should have provided clearer 
information, and if it had he would have had a better understanding of how the CETV was 
calculated, which would have enabled him to benefit from a higher value.
As Mr Y didnt agree this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Y hasnt complained about the advice given to transfer out of his DB scheme, he has 
confirmed that his complaint is about the lack of information and guidance given around the 
CETV. 
In response to Mr Ys complaint about the specific point, that he was not given an 
explanation about how the CETV was calculated Charles Stanley stated:
We are not in the business of attempting to predict the market or movements in actuarial 
thinking. We base our advice on meeting the client's goals and objectives at the time of 
undertaking our analysis.
Mr Y was seeking advice on transferring out of his DB scheme at a specific time to meet his 
objectives of increasing his death benefits and removing his concerns about the 
sustainability of the DB fund.
I wouldnt expect Charles Stanley to explain to Mr Y in detail how the CETV was calculated, 
or how changes in the market could increase or decrease its value. A CETV calculation is 
complex and is affected by many factors and actuarial assumptions. Neither Charles Stanley 
or Mr Y would have been able to predict whether Mr Ys CETV would go up or down in 
future. 
Mr Y says he would have asked for several CETVs over time and made a more informed 
decision on when to do the transfer. Mr Y says he has colleagues who got much higher 
transfer values. However, Mr Ys argument that he essentially would have timed his 
transfer to maximise his CETV is an argument made in hindsight in my view. He didnt know 
at the time how his CETV might change and by waiting he would have risked receiving a 
lower CETV. So, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded that he would have taken 
that risk. 
In summary, I dont think Charles Stanley is responsible for Mr Y missing out on a higher 
transfer value.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman