DRN-3137661
The complaint
Mr E complains that delays caused by Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) chosen recovery 
agent (RA) caused him to be out of pocket through loss of earnings.
What happened
Mr E has a taxi driver policy with Aviva. He was involved in an accident with a foreign 
vehicle. Mr E believes it to be the other drivers fault and the claim for that is being pursued 
through Avivas overseas claims department.
Aviva appointed RA to collect Mr Es car from the scene of the accident. RA contacted Mr E 
to let it know it would be collecting it within 10 mins  so Mr E left the vehicle at the roadside, 
with the keys inside. RA didnt collect the vehicle until the following day. When it did so 
instead of taking it directly to the repairing garage it took it to a storage facility. Over the 
following days RA said it was too busy dealing with breakdowns to deliver Mr Es car to the 
repairing garage. Mr E complained to RA but as he didnt feel he was getting anywhere he 
took the matter to Aviva. It instructed RA to employ a different contractor to deliver Mr Es 
car  which it did. This added thirteen days to the claim.
Mr E is a Taxi driver and uses his car for work, he says because of the delays he has lost 
out on earnings he would otherwise have had. Mr E complained to Aviva, who in turn 
complained to RA. RA responded explaining it had been busy helping live breakdowns and 
offered to pay £75 for any inconvenience but said it couldnt cover any loss of earnings.
Aviva didnt think RA had gone far enough to put things right here and so it decided to deal 
with Mr Es complaint directly. It increased the compensation offer to £150 in total and 
offered Mr E £10 per day loss of use. Mr E didnt agree he said that he had lost out on 
anything between £400 and £2000. Aviva then presented Mr E with two options:
It would consider a loss of earnings claim, provided Mr E could provide evidence to 
support it. Such as evidence of previous earnings. It offered to have its forensic 
accountant work with Mr E to establish what documentation he would need to 
provide. And it would pay him £150 for the inconvenience caused; or
It would pay Mr E £10 per day loss of use for thirteen days. And it would pay him 
£150 for the inconvenience caused.
Aviva was clear Mr E could not claim for both and so would need to choose one or the other 
as it couldnt go back and change things once he had decided.
Mr E didnt want either of those options and asked Aviva to pay for him to be able to hire a 
car to allow him to carry on working. Aviva explained the policy did not provide for a hire car 
replacement and so it could not offer this to him. Mr E then offered to provide quotes he had 
been asked for as evidence of the work he had lost. But Aviva said it couldnt base a loss of 
earnings claim on quotes  but the offer remained for a forensic accountant to work with Mr 
E on a loss of earnings claim. But Mr E decided against it and opted to take the £10 per day 
loss of use option but remained unhappy with this and so brought his complaint to this 
service.
The investigator that looked at the case didnt uphold it in summary they said:
Aviva gave Mr E the choice off loss of earnings (subject to conditions) and loss of use and 
they felt these were reasonable options and the conditions were fair. They also said they 
thought the compensation Aviva had awarded was inline with what this service would award 
in similar circumstances.
Mr E disagreed, Ive summarised his response points below:
His complaint was about RA and not Aviva. 
The events are not in dispute and so RA must be liable.
£10 loss of use was not an appropriate amount for someone that relies on the car 
for their income.
Car hire is provided under his policy if a claim is non-fault  but as his accident was 
with a foreign registered vehicle liability has not yet been settled and can take 
months.
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint. 
Having considered all of the available evidence I have to tell Mr E that I wont be upholding 
his complaint and for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
I think it will be useful to explain here that although Mr E is unhappy with RA, it was working 
under contract for Aviva here, and so Aviva is responsible for RAs actions and any failings it 
made. Which means that Aviva is the liable party here for the delays.
Mr Es policy doesnt provide cover for hire vehicles  but I can understand why he thinks it 
does, Ill explain. The policy provides access to the services of a credit hire company in the 
event of a non-fault claim. It is the credit hire company that decide if they are willing to 
provide a hire car and claim the cost of said hire car directly from the third-party insurer - its 
not guaranteed. And its not a benefit that is provided under the policy. Because of this I 
cant say that Aviva acted unfairly when declining to pay for a hire car for Mr E.
Mr E says that the £10 loss of use payment is not an appropriate amount for him as he relies 
on his car to earn his living.  But I disagree  the £10 loss of use payment is one that is 
widely used across the industry and this service recognises it as fair. And Mr E had an 
alternative option here  he could have pursued a loss of earnings claim.
Mr E said that he thought working with Avivas forensic accountant to make a loss of 
earnings claim would take too long. And he wanted Aviva to accept quotes he had for potential work and his word for the claim. But I dont think thats an accurate or fair reflection 
of his loss. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to refuse and for it to require some 
evidence of previous actual earnings to be able to validate the claim. As Mr E chose not to 
engage with Avivas offer to work with its forensic accountant, I cant say Aviva has done 
anything wrong here. And had Mr E done so he may have ended up with more than the £10 
per day he opted for as an alternative. 
Turning to the compensation award of £150. This payment was for the inconvenience that 
the delays caused Mr E. So, things such as the time he had to spend chasing up RA to get 
his car delivered to the repairing garage, and the upset RA caused when it left his car on the 
roadside overnight. By the very nature of them all accidents come with a certain amount of 
upset and inconvenience, but in Mr Es case this was exasperated by RAs actions. So, I 
understand this must have been very frustrating for him, but Im satisfied that the £150 it has 
already offered for this is fair, reasonable and in line with what Id expect in these 
circumstances.
I know Mr E will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Aviva  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman