DRN-1831242
 
The complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) have refused to allow him to open a bank 
account and when he has asked for an explanation, they have refused to give him one.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr R and HSBC, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any detail. 
Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of direct 
relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
In September 2019 Mr R made an application, online, for an HSBC advance current account 
and was declined. So, he applied for an HSBC bank account and this was again declined. 
Mr R then rang HSBC and was on hold for some time. During that call, whilst on hold, he 
made another application, but this was again declined. As the call handler couldnt identify 
why his applications had been refused, she said a member of the relevant team would call 
him the following day, but they did not. Two days later Mr R rang HSBC, and, on this 
occasion, he was asked to go into branch with his photo ID, which he did. When there the 
manager was unable to tell him why his applications had been declined and when she called 
him later that day still could not tell him. 
HSBC accepted that they gave Mr R the wrong information when they told him to go into the 
branch and in recompense for the trouble and upset caused, they paid him £50. HSBC 
would not however disclose their reasons for declining to open an account for Mr R 
maintaining that they were under no duty so to do.
Mr R was unhappy with HSBCs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. An investigator looked into the complaint, and having 
done so, agreed that although HSBC had provided poor service by giving the wrong 
information to Mr R, the amount of compensation HSBC had paid to Mr R was enough to put 
things right. Further, that HSBC hadnt acted unfairly by refusing to give reasons for its 
decision.
Mr R didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
I have considered both sides views in considering whether HSBC acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. I must 
make an independent decision about what I think is right for each case, and thats what Ive 
done here. In this case, I dont think that HSBC has done anything wrong and Ill explain 
why.
The issue here is relatively straightforward. Mr R has made multiple applications to open a 
bank account with HSBC all of which have been refused. HSBC maintain they are not 
obliged to give any reasons as to why they took that decision, and the issue for me is 
whether they have acted fairly in so doing. 
When banks receive such applications, they must make a decision set against their own 
criteria for opening an account. They must follow their own internal process as they would for 
all customers and must not discriminate or otherwise process an application unfairly. Whilst 
all banks processes will vary, in the main they will consider the information the potential 
customer provides, and any other information they have on the customer which they might 
obtain from other sources.
HSBC have provided this service with information to show that they processed Mr Rs 
application as they would any other. I am satisfied from the information HSBC provided that 
there is no evidence to support any suggestion of discrimination or otherwise treating Mr R 
any differently to any other customer. I appreciate that Mr R feels differently but I can only 
repeat there is no evidence of that. 
Mr R has also asked for the reason his applications were declined and believes this has not 
been given. However, I can see that HSBC did in fact give Mr R the reason, and that is 
contained within the final response letter sent to him on the 21 November. In that letter 
HSBC told Mr R that, The application was scored using the information you provide, as well 
as information from external Credit Reference Agencies. I'm unable to provide more 
information on what has caused the application to offer a lower product, as we do not get a 
breakdown of what aspects of the criteria has not been met. The application has failed our 
internal criteria and vetting process at our online decision. 
I can appreciate that this explanation doesnt satisfy Mr R because he would like to know the 
information behind that, but in essence HSBC have given him the reason, being that his 
application simply did not pass their internal criteria and vetting.  And that is all HSBC are 
required to do. It doesnt have to go into any further detail if it doesnt want to and it doesnt 
have to explain how its processes work.
HSBC has accepted that it didnt get things right in so far as telling Mr R that he needed to 
go into a branch. And it has accepted that it should compensate Mr R because it has already 
paid him £50. Ive given this some further thought and whether it is enough to put matters 
right, and in so doing Ive considered the level of awards this service has made for trouble 
and upset in similar cases. Ive also considered, in the light of my findings, the impact the 
error is likely to have had on Mr R.
I have taken account of the time spent on the telephone, and him having had to go into the 
branch. I accept that will have caused frustration, annoyance and inconvenience. Awarding 
compensation is one way of redressing the balance, but any such award needs to be 
balanced and measured against the vicissitudes of life when dealing with other people, 
businesses and organisations, and recognising that that can be inconvenient at times. 
Putting all of this into the balance I think what HSBC paid is fair and reasonable. And I think 
it is enough to put matters right. So, although Mr R will probably be disappointed with my 
decision, and whilst HSBC have indeed made errors, I cant say HSBC has subsequently 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. My final decision
HSBC has already paid £50 to settle this complaint, and that is fair and reasonable. So, my 
final decision is that I dont require HSBC to do anything else.
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2020.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman