DRN-3649099
The complaint
Mr E and Mrs E complain that their account was blocked by HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC).
What happened
Mr E and Mrs E were locked out of telephone banking with effect from 13 August 2021. The 
block was lifted in October 2021.
Mrs E and Mrs E complain that they couldnt use their bank debit cards because of the block. 
They went on holiday in August 2021 and Mr E had to borrow money from friends as 
spending money, as he couldnt get money from an ATM.
HSBC called Mr E in response to his complaint and wrote to him to say his complaint has 
been settled. They told us during our investigation that Mr E and Mrs Es access to 
telephone banking had been suspended. But not the ATM/debit cards.
Mr E and Mrs E brought their complaint to us. Our investigator said HSBC acted reasonably. 
Mr E and Mrs E had been locked out of telephone banking, but otherwise they could still 
access their account as normal. HSBC had paid compensation of £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused  because they hadnt sent out the security pack which theyd 
promised to do  which wouldve enabled Mr E and Mrs E to re-set their telephone banking 
security.
Mr E and Mrs E didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To get straight to the crux of what happened here  Mr E and Mrs E say they were locked 
out of all their banking facilities between August 2021 and September 2021. So as a result, 
they couldnt access their account or get any cash out. And had to borrow spending money 
for their holiday  which had been arranged to celebrate Mrs Es birthday.
Ive looked at what happened here. And there does seem to have been a misunderstanding. 
Mr E called HSBC on 13 August 2021 and HSBC called him back. Ive listened to the call. Mr 
E failed to give correct answers to all the security questions and therefore HSBCs call 
handler would only give him the balance, but no more. She asked Mr E to go to a branch to 
re-set telephone banking security and said all facilities will function as normal  by which I 
think she meant the debit/ATM cards would still work. Mr E said they were going on holiday 
and said he would deal with the issue when he got back. But here  HSBC did tell him that 
the cards, etc would still work, but they needed to re-set telephone banking security. There 
was only one reference on the call to the need to do that  and it wasnt made clear that only 
telephone banking would be affected  so HSBC couldve been clearer here. For example, 
the call handler couldve said that the debit/ATM cards would work, as would direct debits, 
mobile and internet banking. But she didnt. It appears that from then on, Mr E and Mrs E 
thought that everything had been blocked. That wasnt the case - so they couldve used their 
account in the normal way  other than using telephone banking.
Mr E called HSBC twice on 29 September 2021, having returned from holiday. Ive listened 
to those calls also. He said he couldnt use his account as it was blocked. HSBCs call 
handlers said that telephone banking was blocked (and had been since 13 August 2021) and 
said a pack would be sent out for them to use to re-set security. HSBC agreed with us that 
this wasnt sent as promised, and for that and the calls Mr E had to make  offered to pay 
compensation of £50. 
HSBC showed us evidence that the debit/ATM cards in Mr Es name was working. And Ive 
looked at the bank statements from August 2021 to September 2021  and can see that 
there were several debit card transactions during that time. This shows that the debit card 
was working. There werent any ATM withdrawals made  looking at what happened, I 
suspect Mr E and Mrs E didnt try to make those because they thought the card had been 
stopped.
And therefore  as I said  there seems to have been a misunderstanding here. As a result, 
Mr E had to call HSBC several times and this was inconvenient. But I dont think HSBC 
made an error  other than they couldve been clearer in the call on 13 August 2021. And 
therefore, in the circumstances of this case, I think HSBCs offer of compensation of £50 is 
right to settle this complaint. 
I cant see if this has been paid  I looked at Mr E and Mrs Es statements from August 2021 
to February 2022 and there wasnt evidence of a credit for £50. So, in issuing this final 
decision, I ask HSBC to ensure this has been paid. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. I dont think HSBC needs to do anything to settle the 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman