DRN-3597367
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that MBNA Limited declined her claim under Section 75 (S75) of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) for flights she didnt take.
What happened
Mrs S used her MBNA credit card to book return flights to Spain. She made the payment for 
the flights in February 2020 using a booking agent, who Ill refer to as E. The outbound flight 
was scheduled for 11 September 2020, with the return flight on 14 September 2020. 
Shortly after booking the flights, the COVID-19 pandemic led to a UK national lockdown. 
Mrs S continued to keep an eye on the UK government guidance as it was advising against 
non-essential travel to Spain. In August 2020 Mrs S tried to contact the airline directly 
without success. She spoke to E and said she didnt want to cancel the flights, she wanted to 
either move them to an alternative date or receive a voucher of refund. E advised her to 
speak to the airline  which shed already tried to do. 
As she wasnt getting any success speaking to the airline, Mrs S contacted MBNA in 
September 2020 to raise a S75 claim. MBNA looked into the S75 claim for Mrs S and have 
said they sent their final response to her in October 2020. It appears that Mrs S didnt 
receive this, as she raised a complaint to MBNA in December 2020. MBNA sent a further 
letter to Mrs S in December 2020. MBNA rejected Mrs Ss claim. They said that the flights 
had gone ahead and there hadnt been a breach of contract. 
Mrs S was unhappy with this and brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint. She said the flights had gone ahead, so there hadnt been a 
breach of contract to allow a S75 claim to be successful. She also explained that a 
chargeback would also have been unsuccessful, as the chargeback scheme rules confirmed 
there wasnt a chargeback right if the consumer chose not to travel following precautionary 
advice relating to COVID-19, but the services were still available. 
Mrs S didnt accept this. She said it hadnt been an independent decision of hers not to 
travel. She had followed the guidance published by the UK government and Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) which advised against non-essential travel. As Mrs S was only 
travelling for a holiday, she decided to follow the FCO advice. 
As Mrs S didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator. Ill explain why. 
Section 75
S75 of the CCA says that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement 
has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if theres either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of the goods or services. 
In Mrs Ss case, the contract she entered into with the airline was for them to provide the 
flights shed paid for. And Mrs S has confirmed the flights she paid for went ahead  but she 
made the decision not to take them having considered the FCO guidance at the time 
regarding non-essential travel. Whilst I understand what Mrs S is saying, Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of Mrs Ss booking with the airline and there isnt anything contained in 
them that says a refund of the flights will be given if Mrs S chooses to follow advice not to 
travel, but the flights are still available. 
Because of this, and because the flights went ahead, I cant conclude there has been a 
breach of contract here. And Im therefore satisfied MBNAs decision not to settle Mrs Ss 
S75 claim was a fair one in the circumstances. 
For completeness, Ive also looked at Es terms and conditions from when Mrs S arranged 
her flights with them. There isnt anything contained in them that would suggest E has 
breached their contract or misrepresented anything to Mrs S. Mrs S asked them to find the 
flights for her and book them  E has done that. So, Im satisfied Mrs S wouldnt have a valid 
claim against them either. 
Chargeback
In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from the supplier through the 
chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment settlement disputes are resolved 
between cardholders and suppliers/merchants. They are dealt with under the relevant card 
scheme rules  in Mrs Ss cases that is Mastercard. In certain circumstances the process 
provides a way for MBNA to ask for a payment Mrs S made to be refunded. Those 
circumstances can include where goods or services arent received. 
There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one. 
But Id consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists and 
there is some prospect for success. 
In Mrs Ss case MBNA didnt raise a chargeback when she logged her S75 claim with them. 
And I can understand why. In May 2020 Mastercard issued updated guidance to help 
consumers and businesses with dispute resolution management during the COVID-19 
pandemic. This guidance included some common scenarios which they were seeing, and 
whether a chargeback right existed in those situations. One of the scenarios was:
Question: A cardholder declined use of available services due to concerns related to 
COVID-19. For example, the cardholder chose not to fly following precautionary 
advice or to avoid mandated quarantines upon arrival. Does the issuer have 
chargeback rights?
Answer: No. The issuer does not have chargeback rights if a cardholder chose not to 
use services made available by a merchant, as the merchant has fulfilled its 
obligation linked to the transaction. This also applies to non-airline merchants, such 
as hotels and other venues that kept their obligations to deliver services.
I know Mrs S has said she didnt make the decision not to take the flights independently, and 
she was following the FCO guidance. But I have to conclude that she still chose not to take 
the flights  and as per the Mastercard guidance above choosing not to fly following 
precautionary advice doesnt give cause for a chargeback to be raised. So, in this case Im satisfied MBNA acted reasonably by not raising a chargeback as there was little chance of it 
being successful. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs S, as she feels she acted responsibly by 
following the FCO guidance in place at the time. I have every sympathy with her here, but 
my role is to decide if MBNA have acted fairly in how theyve dealt with Mrs Ss concerns 
when considering her claim. Because Im satisfied they have, I wont be asking them to do 
anything. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman