DRN-4024096
The complaint
Mr R complains Capital One (Europe) plc has made him liable for transactions he didnt 
carry out or authorise. He also complains about the way Capital One (Europe) plc handled 
his claim and the distress it caused him.
What happened
Mr R has a credit card account with Capital One.
Mr R called Capital One on 12 December 2022 to say that hed lost his card the previous 
day and that there were ten transactions totalling £175.10 that he didnt recognise. The 
disputed transactions all took place on 12 December 2022. Capital One agreed to 
investigate.
Capital One initially refunded the transactions but having looked into Mr Rs claim further it 
decided to hold him liable for the transactions hed disputed. Mr R complained about this, 
and complained that, for example, hed not received Capital Ones email telling him that it 
had decided to hold him liable. Mr R said that the transactions werent his, so he wasnt 
going to pay charges relating to them.
Capital One looked into Mr Rs complaint and agreed that its customer service hadnt been 
as good as it could have been at times. However, Capital One, having looked into Mr Rs 
complaint, said that it couldnt accept his fraud claim and that he was, therefore, liable for the 
transactions. Mr R was very unhappy with Capital Ones response and complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Rs complaint and said that they didnt think it was 
unfair of Capital One to hold him liable for the transactions hed disputed. Mr R remained 
unhappy and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, his complaint 
was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to various calls Mr R made to Capital One and I can understand why hes 
unhappy in this case. The agent he spoke to on 12 December 2022 initially said that the 
transactions Mr R was disputing were contactless and that was how theyd managed to use 
Mr Rs card fraudulently. They also said that the transactions would be refunded within 24 
hours, and I can see that they were. So, I can understand why Mr R would have left that call 
believing that hed managed to successfully dispute all ten transactions.
I can see from the evidence provided that not all of the transactions were contactless, and 
that several of them were carried out using Mr Rs genuine card and PIN. Mr R had told 
Capital One that hed lost his card  the following month he said that it must have fallen out 
of his pocket after hed used it to buy a take-away when he was running as it was raining. 
So, theres a possible explanation for how someone else had Mr Rs card. He had also told 
Capital One that hed written his PIN number on his card  something he was advised 
against doing as thats contrary to the terms and conditions of the agreement he signed with 
Capital One. He later explained that he has problems with his memory sometimes  due to 
anxiety and depression, amongst other things  but as Capital One pointed out he could 
always look up the PIN it its app. Ive seen evidence that Mr R used Capital Ones app on a 
regular basis, so I agree with Capital One that this explanation doesnt make complete 
sense. Capital One also rightly pointed out that Mr R could have blocked his card using the 
app  which would be a sensible thing for someone to do if theyd lost a card on which theyd 
written their PIN  and could have rung them too. But I can see Mr R didnt do this as soon 
as he became aware of what he says were transactions hed not carried out himself or 
authorised. I say this because I can see, for example, that his banking app was accessed 
throughout the time that the transactions were taking place. I can also see that no attempts 
were made to use the lost card after it was blocked.
In short, although Capital One hasnt always been clear as to why its holding Mr R liable for 
the transactions hes disputed, I dont think it acted unfairly when it said it didnt accept that 
hed written his PIN on his card, that he was using his banking app whilst the disputed 
transactions were taking place and that he didnt report them as soon as he could. In the 
circumstances, I dont think it acted unfairly when it said it didnt accept that he hadnt carried 
out these transactions or authorised them. It follows that I dont think it acted unfairly when it 
said that it was going to hold him liable for them. To date Mr R has refused to repay the 
balance on his credit card that relates to the transactions he disputed. Capital One has 
explained the consequences of this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman