DRN-4149522
The complaint
Mr K complains PayrNet Limited unfairly blocked and closed his account and failed to return 
the funds in the account to him. He wants those funds paid to him and to know where and 
when they were sent.
What happened
I covered the background facts that led to Mr K bringing this complaint in my provisional 
decision. I am repeating them for the purposes of my final decision.
Mr K held an account with one of PayrNets former agents. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
PayrNet in this decision.
In mid-2021 PayrNet blocked Mr Ks account following receipt of various payments he 
received from third parties, including from his mother. They asked him for information and 
evidence on several occasions, to which Mr K responded.
On reviewing the information Mr K sent, PayrNet took the decision to close his account in 
December 2021 and to return the funds in his account to source. This meant returning sums 
to the account providers of the persons who had sent money to his account - money which 
represented the balance in his account at the time it was blocked.
PayrNet told our service they returned the funds in January 2022. They then clarified that 
one of the payments (to Mr Ks mother) wasnt returned at that time, but they later returned it 
in November 2022.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ks complaint. They found:
PayrNet could block Mr Ks account to carry out a review in line with their legal and 
regulatory obligations.
PayrNet returned the funds in Mr Ks account in January 2022 and then in November 
2022. They should pay him £150 for customer service issues caused by the delay in 
returning the funds to source.
PayrNet should tell Mr K the amounts and dates they returned funds to source. They 
should also share information on the payments made into his account which were 
returned to source, as well as the relevant faster payment references.
Mr K didnt accept the outcome our investigator reached. While he wanted to know where 
the funds in his account were sent and when, he also wanted to be paid the funds directly. 
As a result, his complaint was passed to me to make a final decision in my capacity as an 
ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision in which I didnt require PayrNet to do anything more than 
they had  they had paid Mr K £150 in line with our investigators recommendation, but at 
that time, they had failed to provide information to Mr K on the payments they say they 
returned to source. My provisional findings were:
PayrNet have important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing 
accounts to customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply when an account 
is opened. They can broadly be summarized as a responsibility to know their customer, 
verify their sources of income, and where possible to detect and prevent financial crime.
PayrNet will review accounts to comply with their responsibilities. And its common industry 
practice for firms to restrict access to accounts to conduct a review - doing so helps prevent 
potential harm that might otherwise result.
Ive considered the basis of PayrNets block on the account and their decision to not return 
the funds in Mr Ks account to him. Im satisfied their actions were in line with their legal and 
regulatory responsibilities. Im also satisfied PayrNet were able to close Mr Ks account, and 
their reason(s) for doing so were valid and in line with their terms and conditions. I was sorry 
to hear about the unfortunate circumstances he now faces, but PayrNet do not need to 
compensate him for a valid decision they made. So, I wont be directing them to refund him 
an amount equivalent to the funds that were in his account.
I understand Mr K would want to know why his account was blocked and closed, and why 
funds werent paid to him. But PayrNet isnt obliged to reveal their reason(s) and Ive treated 
what they have told me in confidence. This power is afforded to me under the Dispute 
Resolution Rules (DISP) which form part of the regulators handbook.
PayrNet took too long to complete their review, and there was then a further delay in 
returning part of the funds they were holding to the account of Mr Ks mother. PayrNet has 
already paid Mr K £150 for the frustration he experienced, and I dont find further 
compensation would be appropriate given the valid reason(s) behind their decision to not 
return the funds to him directly.
Our investigator recommended that PayrNet provide the details of where and when they sent 
the remaining funds to Mr K, as well as other payment information. But after carefully 
considering all the available information and evidence, including PayrNets reason(s) for not 
giving the funds to Mr K directly, I dont require them to reveal further information to him.
PayrNet previously agreed with our investigators view, so they may still want to carry out the 
investigators recommendations, but I will leave that to them to decide. Mr K may want to 
contact them directly to see if he can get the information he wants, but this will be outside of 
our services involvement.
Mr K responded to my provisional decision and repeated that he wants to be paid the money 
that was in his account. PayrNet responded and said their former agent had told them it was 
looking into my provisional decision. However, the deadline for further submissions for me to 
consider has now passed and PayrNet have had ample time to respond and  provide 
responses, including those of their former agent. I am not extending the deadline further. So, 
Ive gone on to make a final decision on Mr Ks complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to require PayrNet to do anything more than what they have done to resolve Mr Ks complaint. They already have paid him £150 for the frustration he experienced due to 
how long their review took and the delay in returning funds to his mother. I gave my reasons 
for reaching this outcome in my provisional decision. Those findings are copied above and 
now constitute my findings for this final decision.
Mr K has emphasised that he is in a very difficult situation. I am sorry to hear about his 
circumstances, but I have now decided his complaint and found that PayrNet acted fairly 
when deciding not to return the funds to him directly. I dont require them to pay him a sum 
equivalent to the funds they didnt return to him. Neither do I require them to provide him with 
further information on the payments they returned to source. My role and that of our service 
is now concluded on his complaint.
My final decision
Ive decided not to require PayrNet Limited to do anything more than they have for the 
reasons I have given above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman