DRN-3222471
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Hedgehog Limited (Hedgehog) have attempted to take a premium 
payment without prior notification. The payment attempt failed, and she has been charged 
for the failed payment.      
         
What happened
Mrs N took out a car insurance policy with Hedgehog. The car had been owned by her family 
since 2017, but was transferred into her name in May 2021. On her quote she had specified 
the date of ownership as commencing 2017. 
 
Following the purchase, Hedgehog checked the V5 details and discovered that the car was 
only registered to Mrs N from May 2021. They corrected this date on the policy and it 
resulted in a policy increase of £21.02. They attempted to collect the additional premium plus 
a £30 change fee from her bank account. They didnt give her advance notice of this.  
The payment failed due to insufficient funds in the account, and Hedgehog contacted Mrs N 
by e mail and advised her to make the payment. Mrs N was changed by her bank. 
Mrs N thinks that Hedgehog should have notified her before a payment was taken. 
Hedgehog issued their final response in May 2021. They said that in the terms of business 
agreement provided pre and post sale, they had explained that they operated a continuous 
payment authority process. Mrs N had agreed to this, and so they were entitled to collect the 
additional premium. 
They also said that a customer can opt out of continuous payment authority this if they wish, 
but Mrs N hadnt done so. 
However, Hedgehogs underwriters have now reviewed the case and decided that although 
its not technically accurate, they have accepted the explanation for the original purchase 
date being entered as 2017, and allowed it, removing the need to pay the additional 
premium. 
  
Mrs N was unhappy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mrs Ns complaint and decided that Hedgehog have 
acted fairly. 
 
Mrs N disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all of the evidence provided by both Hedgehog and Mrs N. Ive looked to see 
whether Hedgehog have complied with the terms and conditions of the policy, and whether 
they have acted fairly in doing so. 
I have decided not to uphold Mrs Ns complaint, and I will explain why below. 
In this case I have to decide whether Hedgehog have acted fairly and reasonably and within 
the terms and conditions of the policy when dealing with this claim The terms of business 
were provided to Mrs N pre and post sale and they contain the authority on which Hedgehog 
attempted the collection of the additional premium. They say:
Paying in full or in part by payment card
When purchasing cover with Hedgehog, you give us continuous payment authority . By 
agreeing to allow continuous payment you agree to the following
The card being used for future payments such as the collection of any addition a 
premium generated as a result of a change to your policy
Renewal premium collection (se Automated renewal section of this document) and;
Collection of payment arrears where applicable
You can opt out of the agreement at any time by contacting us or amending the setting in the 
portal
So, I am satisfied that Mrs N was given notice by Hedgehog that they would take any 
additional premium generated by a change. Although this premium was generated by 
Hedgehog making a change to the policy rather than Mrs N, I dont think that matters as the 
terms dont specify who should instigate the change.
Mrs N hasnt been able to provide us with any evidence that she opted out of the continuous 
payment authority, and so I am satisfied that Hedgehog were entitled to take any additional 
premium. 
Ive then considered whether Hedgehog acted fairly and reasonably in applying the 
additional premium. 
Hedgehog have provided me with the documents from when Mrs N took out the policy, 
which clearly show she declared the date of ownership as commencing in 2017. This is at 
odds with the V5, which shows ownership commencing in 2021. Hedgehog have explained 
that the length of ownership is a factor they take into account in assessing risk, and if Mrs N 
had entered 2021 as the commencement date of ownership on her original application, the 
quoted premium would have been higher. So, I am satisfied that Hedgehog have acted fairly 
in deciding that an addition a premium was due. I understand that following this complaint 
and the communication about the car being owned in the family previously, Hedgehog have 
now decided not to increase the premium, but on the face of the information they had at the 
time, they acted fairly in charging the additional premium.  
 
Finally, I have considered Mrs Ns argument that Hedgehog should have notified her before 
taking the payment, as the failure to do so meant that the payment failed as she had 
insufficient funds in her account, and she incurred charges. I would have expected 
Hedgehog to notify Mrs N of the change to the policy, and the reason for the additional 
premium, but I dont see any requirement for them to do so in advance of taking the 
payment, and they cant be responsible for Mrs N having insufficient funds in her account at 
the time the payment was attempted. So, I dont think its reasonable for Hedgehog to meet 
the banks fees for the failed payment.    
 My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ns complaint against Hedgehog Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman