DRN-3588381
The complaint
Mrs L, in her capacity as administrator of Mr Ls estate and as the beneficiary of his pension, 
has complained that Mayfair Capital Limited invested Mr Ls pension funds in investments 
that werent suitable for him.
What happened
In 2017 Mr L received advice from an independent financial advisor (who Ill refer to as P) 
to switch his existing personal pension to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP), and to 
then have Mayfair manage and advise him on the investments within the SIPP.
Mayfair sent Mr L a welcome letter in July 2017 which said it would provide an advisory 
service and that it had categorised him as a medium risk investor. It later proposed some 
initial trades for Mr Ls funds. Along with other investments, it recommended £6,400 be 
invested in NQ Minerals shares (the shares) and £6,400 to be invested in Corporate Bonds 
(the bonds).
Mr L sadly passed away in September 2018. Mrs L told Mayfair and no further investments 
were made.
Mrs L later complained as she was unhappy with the loss of value and felt Mr L had received 
unsuitable advice about the investments. Mayfair felt the investment advice given was 
suitable for Mr L.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he felt Mr L was an 
inexperienced investor and had limited capacity for loss. So he felt the recommendation to 
invest a significant amount of Mr Ls funds in high risk, illiquid bonds and high risk shares 
was unsuitable and made his investment portfolio exceed the risk he was prepared to take. 
Using a formula our investigator calculated what he thought was suitable compensation.
Mayfair accepted our investigators assessment but Mrs L didnt. She thought the 
compensation was insufficient to cover her losses. The matter has therefore been passed to 
me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs L has made various comments about things that have happened and information she 
was given/not given by Mayfair, P and the SIPP provider. Shes also made a related 
complaint to us against P about its involvement in this matter. This complaint concerns 
Mayfairs involvement and this decision only relates to Mayfairs actions. Im looking at the 
complaint about P separately.
Investment advice
I think the issue over whether or not Mayfair provided Mr L with suitable advice and/or 
invested on his behalf in an appropriate manner is no longer in dispute. I say this because 
our investigator specifically/said:
the bonds  were unsuitable as they were non-mainstream pooled investments and 
shouldnt have been promoted/offered to Mr L; and even if they werent non-mainstream 
pooled investments they were unsuitable anyway as they represented the entire fixed 
interest element of the portfolio, were illiquid, and were high risk (meaning there was 
significant risk of capital loss  and Mr L had a limited capacity for loss as he had limited 
pension savings)
the shares  represented the entire smaller companies element of the portfolio, were 
high risk and carried a significant risk of capital loss that, as above, Mr L couldnt afford
both investments  comprised roughly one-third of Mr Ls entire investment portfolio, and 
meant the portfolio as a whole wasnt consistent with Mr Ls attitude to risk.
In response to our investigators assessment Mayfair said it didnt dispute anything in 
respect of the bonds. It made some comments about the shares but these were more to do 
with the suggested compensation rather than the conclusion reached that they were 
unsuitable. And as Mayfair ended up agreeing to a compensation settlement it, in my view, 
effectively agreed that both investments were unsuitable.
I dont therefore feel the need to focus on this point further. The real issue for me to decide is 
what Mayfair now needs to do to put things right.
Putting things right
In January 2019 Mrs L asked P about taking the death benefits from the pension. P told her, 
wrongly, that shed have to pay tax on the money she received so it advised her to keep the 
pension running. Mrs L wouldnt have been liable to pay any tax at that time had she chosen 
to take the death benefits. Mayfair isnt responsible for the misinformation P gave Mrs L in 
this respect but I mention it here because I think its important to determining fair 
compensation in this complaint. This is because had P correctly advised Mrs L I think she 
would most likely have taken the death benefits in/around January 2019 and then used the 
money to put towards a property she bought.
My aim is to put Mrs L as close as reasonably possible to the position she would have been 
in in January 2019 but for the unsuitable investment advice. I nevertheless need to take 
account of the fact that in the complaint about P Ive concluded that P (rather than Mayfair) 
was responsible for some losses that the pension might have suffered. The failings here are 
in respect of the two investments. As Ive said, other failings  including the information P 
gave Mrs L about her potential tax liability  arent Mayfairs responsibility.
My first consideration is in respect of the potential loss suffered. The investigator used a 
formula to calculate how much he felt Mayfair should pay. However, the final compensation 
figure he came to was only an approximation (eg the index growth figures weren't exact) in 
an attempt to come to bring the parties together to come to an agreeable settlement. We 
dont have the capacity or expertise to carry out the exact calculations. So rather than come 
to a precise figure my redress will be formulaic, along the same lines as that suggested by 
our investigator.
So, to compensate Mrs L fairly Mayfair should:
i. use the sums Mr L invested in the bonds and the sharesii. calculate the growth on the figure in i from the dates the investments were made until 
15 January 2019, using the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index as a 
benchmark, and add this growth to the figure in i
iii. calculate the value of the shares as of 15 January 2019 and deduct this from the figure in 
ii
iv. to the figure in iii, add 2.81% compound interest from 29 September 2019 to the date of 
this decision
v. to the figure in iv, add £800 in recognition of the £1,000 the SIPP provider will keep in 
the SIPP to cover ongoing fees, and £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
the advice
vi. pay the amount in v Mrs L.
Mayfair should also provide the details of the calculation to Mrs L in a clear, simple format.
Its possible that income tax might be payable on any interest paid. If Mayfair considers that 
its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the interest it should tell 
Mrs L how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax deduction certificate in respect of 
interest if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
I think its fair for the start point of the calculations to be the amounts Mr L invested in the 
shares and bonds because Mayfairs liability is only for losses in respect of these 
investments. Its not possible to know precisely how Mr L would otherwise have invested the 
money, but it seems that he was willing to accept some risk to the investment in order to 
achieve capital, and the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index is a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. Its fair to 
deduct the value of the shares as of 15 January 2019 because these could have been sold 
at that point and likely would have been had Mrs L chosen at that point to take the death 
benefits (had she been correctly advised by P).
The interest rate used is fair because Mrs L would most likely have used the funds from the 
death benefits to buy the property (which in turn would have reduced the amount she 
needed to borrow).
The compensation amount for the ongoing fees is fair because the SIPP provider said the 
SIPP couldnt be closed until all the investments held within it had been sold; so if Mrs L now 
started taking death benefits it would retain £1,000 in the SIPP to cover future charges. Its 
not fair for Mrs L to have to pay these ongoing charges because had there not been 
investments in the bonds she would have been able to take all the death benefits in January 
2019. Ive allowed for £800 because £1,000 in the SIPP is equivalent to £800 that Mrs L 
would receive as she now has to pay tax on the death benefits. The £150 suggested for the 
distress and inconvenience Mrs L has suffered as a result of the unsuitable investments is 
fair.
When responding to our investigator Mrs L made various comments on why she felt the 
compensation was insufficient. Some of the comments related to issues she felt were 
caused by being given incorrect advice about being taxed on the death benefits. Ive dealt 
with those in my decision on the complaint against P. In respect of the unsuitable 
investments, Mrs L felt she should have the original investment returned in full.As I said earlier, my aim is to put Mrs L as close as reasonably possible to the position she 
would have been in in January 2019 but for Mayfairs wrongdoing. For the bonds, I think the 
compensation does, in effect, reimburse Mrs L for the cost of the original investment. This is 
because the above calculations are based on the amount originally invested plus the growth 
that would have been experienced up to January 2019 using the index comparison. Theres 
no deduction in the rest of the formula in respect of the bonds.
For the shares, the calculation again starts by taking the amount originally invested plus the 
growth that would have been experienced up to January 2019 using the index comparison. 
The difference here is that a deduction has been made. As Ive said above, I think this is fair 
because if Mrs L had been correctly advised by P in January 2019 she would have taken the 
death benefits at that point. And in doing so the shares could and would have been sold. 
Accordingly, if there has been any loss in value of the shares from January 2019 I dont think 
thats strictly as a result of the unsuitable investment advice.
My second consideration is in respect of what should happen to the investments still held 
within the SIPP. The above redress calculation essentially compensates Mrs L for the full 
amount invested in the bonds. However, theyre illiquid  meaning they need to be held in 
the SIPP until they become liquid (which I understand wont be until around May 2024). But 
as Mrs L will already have been compensated for the bonds, its inequitable for her to then 
also receive the value of them once theyre able to be redeemed. Accordingly, I think its fair 
if Mayfair wish to require that Mrs L provide an undertaking to pay it any amount she might 
receive from the bonds in the future. Mayfair will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
No undertaking is needed in respect of the shares as Mayfair isnt compensating Mrs L in full 
for these.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Mayfair Capital Limited to settle this matter as outlined 
under the Putting things right heading above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2023.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman