DRN-3367107
The complaint
Mr S complains Barclays Bank UK PLC wrongly closed his account with them without 
providing an explanation.
What happened
Mr S held a personal current account with Barclays. In January 2021, Barclays wrote to Mr S 
to tell him they were closing his account. Their letter gave notice totalling 62 days.
Mr S wasnt happy about Barclays decision, so he complained to them. He wanted to know 
why they were closing his account as he thought there was no legitimate reason. He said 
Barclays had made a mistake and their decision breached their own terms and conditions.
Barclays responded to Mr B complaint in February 2021. They said their decision had been 
carefully considered and had been subject to their strict internal review process. They didnt 
think theyd made a mistake and said their decision complied with their own terms and 
conditions.
Mr S wasnt happy with Barclays response to his complaint. So, he decided to refer matters 
to this service. He wanted Barclays to understand theyd made a mistake and reopen his 
account with them. 
Our investigator looked at the circumstances of Mr Ss complaint but didnt agree Barclays 
had done anything wrong. 
Mr S disagreed with our investigators findings. He didnt think Barclays had a reason to 
close his account and said he hadnt done anything wrong. He felt they hadnt treated him 
fairly. He didnt know why theyd reached their decision and thought Barclays should explain 
this to him.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Ss complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays notice to close letter confirmed the date Mr Ss account with them was to be 
closed. Their letter provided Mr S with a total of 62 days notice of when this would happen. 
Their letter also referred to the relevant section of Barclays Retail Customer Agreement 
covering their decision and actions.
Barclays Terms and conditions for personal customers are available on their website and 
are dated November 2020. Ive considered these  in particular page 20 which is headed 
When we can close an account or end a service. It says, We can close an account (and 
stop providing any services and end this agreement) by giving you at least two months 
notice. As their letter gave a total of 62 days notice, Im satisfied that Barclays letter 
complied with their own terms and conditions.
Mr S believes Barclays acted illegally by closing his account. Barclays, like any other 
business, is free to choose who they do business with, in the same way that a consumer is 
free to choose which bank they want to use. So, I cant reasonably conclude that Barclays 
did anything wrong when they decided to close Mr Ss account. Mr S also feels that Barclays 
should provide him with an explanation. While I can understand and appreciate why Mr S 
wants to understand Barclays reasons, I dont believe they are required to provide this 
information. Im not aware of any legal requirement and there is no provision for this within 
their terms and conditions. 
Mr S has suggested Barclays told him that the closure related to fraudulent activity on his 
account, but they didnt provide any proof of this. I dont believe this has a bearing upon my 
final decision. Barclays were entitled to make the decision they did and werent required to 
explain why. Ive found no evidence to suggest Barclays treated Mr S inappropriately or 
unfairly. I do appreciate that Mr S will be disappointed, but I havent found anything to 
support his suggestion that Barclays did something wrong here.
Mr S has since raised other areas of complaint about Barclays to this service. But as these 
havent been raised with Barclays, giving them the opportunity to investigate and respond, 
Im unable to consider these further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman