DRN-2741182
The complaint
Mr Ds complaint arises from the redemption of a mortgage account with HSBC UK Bank Plc  
which used to be in the joint names of Mr D and his former partner, Ms C. The complaint is 
that HSBC incorrectly refunded an early repayment charge (ERC) to Ms C instead of Mr D. 
To settle the complaint, Mr D would like HSBC to reimburse him with about £9,000.
Mr D is also unhappy that, after having £1,500 transferred from his current account in 2019 
(quickly reimbursed by HSBC), the banks fraud team has failed to provide him with an 
explanation for this.
To settle the complaint Mr D wants HSBC to reimburse him for the ERC, plus the legal costs 
hes incurred in trying to recover this money from Ms C. Mr D also wants an explanation of 
how someone was able to access his current account and remove £1,500.
What happened
I will start by clarifying that, although this complaint relates to a joint mortgage account, the 
complaint has been brought by Mr D alone. Generally for a joint mortgage, we require the 
consent of both parties before we can consider a complaint. But Mr D says he is the one 
who has been wronged by the bank and has suffered loss as a result. Our rules allow us to 
consider a complaint brought by Mr D alone in such a situation.
But Ms C isnt a party to the complaint, and so I dont have her consent to access any of her 
data. This includes correspondence or messages between Mr D and Ms C, as well any 
correspondence from Ms Cs solicitors.
What this means is that, although I am able to set out the background to the complaint, I 
cannot (and will not) comment on anything specifically relating to Ms C or her solicitors.
This complaint arises out of unhappy circumstances  the breakdown of the relationship 
between Mr D and Ms C in 2020. They owned a property together on which they had a 
mortgage with HSBC, taken out in June 2019. 
The mortgage was on a fixed interest rate product of 2.59% until 30 September 2027. If the 
mortgage was redeemed within the fixed-rate period, an ERC would apply. However, the 
mortgage also provided that the interest rate product could be transferred onto a mortgage 
on a new property. This is called porting.
I will explain here that a mortgage loan and a mortgage product are two different things. A 
loan is the underlying transaction in which money is lent; the product is the terms that sit on 
top of this. For example, an agreement to borrow £100,000 over 25 years at the lenders 
interest rate is a loan; an agreement that for the first five years a fixed interest rather than 
the standard rate will apply is the product. The mortgage is the legal mechanism by which 
the loan is secured against the property.
A product can be ported (that is, moved from one mortgage to another), either because 
someone is moving house or because they are re-mortgaging without moving. The most 
common reason for porting a product from mortgage to mortgage is to avoid incurring the 
ERC when the existing mortgage is repaid. What usually happens is that the old mortgage 
is redeemed, with the full ERC being paid to the lender. Then, when the new mortgage 
completes, the ERC is reimbursed, either in full (if the full amount of the product is ported) or 
in part (if the new mortgage is for less than the old mortgage). 
Some lenders terms and conditions require simultaneous completion of the old and new 
mortgages for the ERC refund to apply; others have a window of time (usually a maximum of 
90 days) to close off the old mortgage before completing on the new one. On a simultaneous 
completion, there may only be a partial ERC payable, if the product being ported is for less 
than the original mortgage. But if completion isnt simultaneous, the full amount is repaid. So 
in practical terms, on the day the old mortgage is paid off, the full ERC has to be paid to the 
lender, and any reimbursement happens later, once the new mortgage completes.
Mr D was purchasing Ms Cs interest in their jointly-owned property, with a new mortgage 
from HSBC (on an initial fixed rate of 1.29% until March 2022), keeping it as a second home. 
Ms C was buying another property also with a mortgage from HSBC. The bank agreed that 
she could carry the fixed-rate product from the old mortgage onto the mortgage for her new 
property. I understand Ms C was not borrowing the full amount of the previous mortgage.
So there were several transactions taking place. One was the transfer of title from the joint 
names of Mr D and Ms C into Mr Ds sole name, with the redemption of the old mortgage to 
HSBC, and Mr Ds new mortgage to HSBC. The other was Ms Cs purchase of a new 
property, with a new mortgage from HSBC, onto which she was porting the interest rate 
product from the old mortgage. Solicitors were instructed, with Mr D using the same 
solicitors as HSBC (Q) and Ms C instructing her own solicitors.
In February 2020 HSBC issued a redemption statement showing an ERC of £9,981.94. This 
was queried by Mr Ds solicitors. HSBC confirmed the full ERC was due because Mr D was 
not porting the interest rate product onto the new loan. 
Initially on 11 May 2020 the bank told Mr D that there would be a partial ERC, but that the 
redemption statement was likely to show the full amount of the ERC. HSBC said that 
reimbursement would need to be discussed with Ms Cs solicitors.
The transfer of equity, redemption of the old mortgage and Mr Ds new mortgage were due 
to complete in early June 2020. It appears Ms C wasnt completing simultaneously on her 
purchase. As a result, HSBC required the full amount of the ERC to be paid (£9,870.38) on 
redemption of the old mortgage, with reimbursement to be made later.
A completion statement was sent to Mr D by his solicitors. This showed that, after receiving 
the funds for the new mortgage, there would be a shortfall of about £14,000 which would be 
needed before the transaction could be completed. Mr D says he had to borrow funds from a 
third party to enable him to make up the shortfall.
On 10 June 2020 the old mortgage was redeemed in full, including the ERC. Ms C later 
completed on her purchase and new mortgage with HSBC, including the porting of the 
interest rate product from the old mortgage. A reimbursement of the ERC of £8,593.49 was 
due. HSBC paid this to the solicitors (who were also acting for Mr D). They asked the bank 
who should receive it. HSBC confirmed the reimbursement was owed to the borrower. The 
solicitors sent the ERC reimbursement to Ms Cs solicitors in full. Ms C has refused to repay 
Mr D the money he borrowed to pay the ERC.
Mr D complained both to the solicitors and to HSBC. The bank didnt uphold the complaint, 
explaining that the ERC is reimbursed to the party who ports the interest rate product onto the new mortgage, and that this is what had happened. Mr D also raised with the bank his 
concerns about the fraudulent withdrawal of £1,500 from his current account. He wanted 
HSBC to explain how this had happened. HSBC said that it wasnt able to disclose this.
Dissatisfied with HSBCs response, Mr D brought his complaint to us. An investigator looked 
at what had happened, but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr D didnt agree with the investigators outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint. Hes reiterated the points he made at the outset in relation to the ERC refund, 
as well as questions he wants answered in relation to HSBCs dealings with Ms C.
Mr D says that he understands the reason why the refund was paid to Ms C. But he says it 
wasnt made clear to him before his solicitors asked him to make up the shortfall to complete 
his purchase of Ms Cs interest in the property that the refund of the ERC would be paid to 
Ms C. Mr D says that HSBC owed him a duty of care to explain this to him. Mr D says that if 
this is not regulated by the Financial Ombudsman Service, why does HSBC tell customers to 
contact our service?
Mr D has also provided an extract of a report prepared by his solicitors which sets out 
various questions to which Mr D would like answers.
Because the matter remains unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will begin by explaining that the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a regulator, and we 
have no power to regulate the operations of HSBC. The bank is required to provide 
dissatisfied customers with referral rights to the Financial Ombudsman Service, but we are 
independent and impartial and do not represent the interests either of consumers or the 
businesses they are complaining about.
As I said at the outset, this complaint is about a joint mortgage, but I have only one party on 
the complaint. So whilst Im able to look at Mr Ds complaint, I am hampered to some extent 
because Im unable to comment on any dealings HSBC may have had with Ms C in relation 
to the mortgage, her porting of the interest rate product or the refund of the ERC. This has 
implications for this complaint, which I will come to later.
What I can look at is whether HSBC has done anything wrong in relation to its dealings with 
Mr D.
I see that in May 2020 HSBC initially suggested to Mr D that there might only be a small 
ERC of about £1,100, due to the fact that Ms C was porting the product onto her new 
mortgage. I dont know (and dont have her consent to find out) how much Ms C was 
borrowing, but this suggests it wasnt the full amount she and Mr D had originally borrowed.
If there had been a simultaneous completion of all transactions, then that is probably what 
would have been payable. But completion wasnt simultaneous, so the full amount of the 
ERC was  correctly  payable. This, and other disbursements on Mr Ds completion statement, led to a shortfall of the amount his solicitors required to complete his purchase of 
Ms Cs interest in the property.
I am told  and do not doubt  that Mr D had to borrow to make up this shortfall. HSBC was 
unaware thered been a shortfall in the amount Mr D was borrowing and the amount he 
needed to complete his purchase of Ms Cs interest in the property before completion, or that 
Mr D had borrowed money to make up the shortfall. HSBC also didnt know  and wasnt 
required to know  whether the ERC had been repaid solely by one of the joint borrowers or 
by both. All the bank knew was that the balance shown on the redemption statement had 
been paid in full.
The solicitors (who were also acting for Mr D on his purchase of Ms Cs interest in their 
former property) were told by HSBC that the ERC refund should be paid to the borrower. 
As Ms C had ported the interest rate product, the refund was made to her solicitors. Mr D 
acknowledges this is technically correct, but argues that HSBC owed him a duty of care to 
explain this to him before he made up the shortfall.
Im afraid I have to disagree. I cant see from the evidence I have that HSBC was ever told 
that Mr D was borrowing from a third party in order to have sufficient funds to complete the 
transaction. The bank didnt owe him a duty of care to give him advice about a situation it 
was unaware of. 
Based on all the evidence I have seen, Im unable to find HSBC has done anything wrong in 
relation to the refund of the ERC. Reimbursement was due to the party who kept the interest 
rate product. It was up to Mr D and Ms C to arrange between themselves how payment of 
this was to be apportioned, and this was nothing to do with HSBC. So in all the 
circumstances, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to order HSBC to reimburse Mr D 
for the ERC.
Fraud investigation
In its final response letter, HSBC explained that it wasnt able to disclose details of its fraud 
investigation to Mr D, after hed had £1,500 taken from his current account. Mr D is unhappy 
about this and wants HSBC to provide full details of its investigation.  Im satisfied HSBC 
isnt required to disclose this information to Mr D. Whilst I accept that it must have been a 
distressing experience for Mr D, HSBC is entitled to keep information about its security and 
fraud investigations confidential. So although I understand why Mr D would like HSBC to tell 
him what happened, I am not ordering HSBC to provide this information.
Further points
Mr D says that Ms C has refused to reimburse him for the ERC. He has taken advice from 
solicitors about this. 
This leads me to the point I alluded to earlier. Mr D has told us that he is having to take legal 
action against Ms C for recovery of the ERC reimbursement which he says was wrongly paid 
to her. If that is the case, then if I were to order HSBC to reimburse him too, there would be 
an element of double recovery, where Mr D might receive two refunds  one ordered by me 
against HSBC and one ordered by the court against Ms C. Equally it would not be fair or 
reasonable for me to order HSBC to reimburse Mr D whilst Ms C gets to keep the ERC 
refund.
This complaint involves not only HSBC and the solicitors who acted for both the bank and 
Mr D, but also Ms C and her solicitors. I can only look at this complaint in relation to Mr D 
and HSBC. I have his side of the story, but I dont know what Ms C might say about the ERC or why she hasnt refunded it to Mr D. I dont know what arrangements they might have 
made between themselves about how the equity in their former property was to be shared, 
who was to pay what, or whether Ms Cs version of events or understanding of the situation 
relating to the ERC might differ from Mr Ds. 
It may well be that Ms C has valid reasons for retaining the ERC refund  but I dont know 
this and I have no power to make her tell me. Unlike a court, the Financial Ombudsman 
Service cant compel people who arent party to a complaint to give evidence.
If Mr D doesnt accept my final decision, he is free to pursue the matter in court. I think, given 
that there is another party whose side of the story I havent heard, the court may well be the 
most suitable venue for determining this matter. To be clear, I am not doubting Mr Ds 
veracity or integrity. But I dont have the full story, and so Ive only been able to reach my 
decision on the basis of the evidence in front of me, which might not be a complete version 
of events.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman