DRN-4337174
The complaint
A limited company, which I will refer to as G, is complaining that National Westminster 
Bank Plc (NatWest) caused a delay in opening Gs business account, and in setting up 
online banking for the account.
The complaint is brought by Mr G, the director of G, on its behalf.
What happened
G applied to open a business account with NatWest. Its director, Mr G, had two other 
companies which had business accounts with NatWest, and he also had a personal account 
with them. He had access to online banking for these accounts.
On 22 July 2021 Mr G called NatWest. He said he was having problems applying for a new 
business account online, and online banking had been giving a message that something had 
gone wrong for about a week. The adviser talked through what had happened and advised 
Mr G that even though he himself was an existing customer, hed need to select the option of 
not an existing customer to be able to proceed to open a new business account for G.
The account application went through on the following day, and Gs business account was 
opened on 9 August 2021.
On 29 August 2021 Mr G called NatWest again. He said he wanted to set up online banking 
for Gs new business account. He understood that his current customer profile would only 
allow two business accounts, so hed need a new customer number to set up online banking 
for Gs account. The adviser took Mr Gs email address  which was the same email address 
hed used on the application for Gs business account  and said shed email him a link to 
use.
Later that day Mr G called again. He said he hadnt received an email with the link he 
needed. He asked if it was possible to add Gs business account to his existing profile and 
he was told it wasnt possible. The adviser checked the email address Mr G had provided 
earlier, and on the application for Gs business account, and identified it wasnt one they 
already had stored for Mr G for online banking. She went on to say that this didnt matter for 
the purposes of sending the link he needed. She explained the steps Mr G would need to go 
through online to add Gs new business account.
On the morning of 17 September 2021 Mr G completed an application for online banking for 
G, using the email address hed given in the calls of 29 August 2021, and which hed also 
used on Gs business account application. I can see this application was received by 
NatWest on 17 September 2021 and a confirmation and request for the online banking 
agreement to be signed through adobe docusign was sent to Mr Gs email address. Mr G 
viewed that email on the same day it was sent.
On 20 September 2021 Mr G called NatWest again. He said that hed been told there were 
system issues with adobe docusign so hed been unable to sign the application for online 
banking. He said hed been using his personal account to pay Gs business expenses and 
this would have financial implications for him - and he just wanted online banking for G to be 
working.
The adviser said he wasnt aware of any systems issues. He logged Mr Gs concerns but 
said the complaints team would look into things. He advised Mr G to keep a record of all the 
payments hed made through his personal account instead of his business account to submit 
with his complaint.
Mr G signed the online banking application via adobe docusign on 24 September 2021.
NatWest received it, but were unable to process it because they said Gs account was set up 
with both directors needing to sign. So, on 28 September 2021 they wrote to Mr G to explain 
this was why they couldnt process Gs application.
On the morning of 28 September 2021 Mr G called NatWest again. He wasnt aware, at that 
time, that it was the requirement for the other directors signature that was holding things up. 
He said hed been waiting for online banking access for Gs account for over a month and 
had now signed and returned the online banking application, but it still wasnt up and 
running.
The adviser asked Mr G which email address he was using in the online banking application, 
and Mr G gave the email address hed used when he opened the account. The adviser 
explained that it was this that was causing the problem  because the email address Mr G 
had used for Gs business account wasnt an address NatWest held on file for him already.
She said to set up online banking for G, Mr G must use an address NatWest already held for 
him. She said the online banking application would appear to have gone through, and Mr G 
would still receive confirmation it had been received. But the application wouldnt arrive with 
NatWest and would go into a black hole.
Mr G asked why nobody had told him this before  as hed previously been told the problem 
was down to a systems issue. He said that if someone had explained this before it could 
have been resolved much earlier. The adviser explained that it was a common issue and she was used to having similar 
conversations about this. She said the online banking application hadnt arrived at NatWests 
end. She went on to explain that both Mr G and the other director of G needed to sign the 
application as it was set up as two to sign. Mr G asked the adviser to raise a complaint and 
told her that he no longer wanted to bank with NatWest.
NatWest issued their final response to Gs complaint which covered both the delays and the 
two to sign issue. In relation to the online application process, they apologised for the 
experience, and paid G £200 in compensation. Online banking was set up for G around 
November 2021.
Mr G brought a complaint about NatWest asking for two signatures to set up online banking 
for G, and weve already considered that complaint separately. He has now brought this 
complaint which is about the delays he said took place before the signature issue arose on 
24 September 2021.
Mr G said, in summary, that he had been trying to open Gs account and set up online 
banking from around June 2021. He said he called NatWest frequently during this time and 
was told there was a systems problem. He said he had to go into the branch and withdraw 
cash from Gs business account to pay into his personal account to do the online transfers 
he needed to do - which was inconvenient and had tax implications.
We asked NatWest for some more information about what had happened. They said that 
there had been a systems issue with adobe docusign between 17 and 21 September 2021. 
But they werent aware of any issues around an email black hole. They said they had 
searched Mr Gs mobile number for the calls hed made to them about this issue from May 
2021 onwards, and provided all the call recordings they held to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but they didnt uphold it. They said, in summary, 
that there wasnt anything to show that Mr G, on behalf of G, was repeatedly applying for 
online banking unsuccessfully, so they didnt think NatWest had made a mistake.
Mr G disagreed with the investigators view, so Gs complaint was passed to me for review 
and a decision.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 18 July 2023. This is what I said.
Mr G has raised a separate complaint on behalf of G about the two to sign issue which has 
already been considered. So, the complaint Im considering is about the delays Mr G says 
he experienced when applying for Gs business account and setting up online banking, 
before he signed the online banking application on 24 September 2021. What happened 
then and after this has already been considered in Gs separate complaint.
As far as I can see, there are two sets of delays to consider here. The delay in opening Gs 
business account in the first place. And the delay in setting up online banking for Gs 
business account.
Mr Gs told us he applied for Gs business account originally in June 2021. But during his call 
of 22 July 2021 he said hed been trying to apply online for about a week. So, I think its 
more likely he tried to apply for Gs account from around mid-July 2021, and this is when he 
first experienced problems with the application.Having listened to the call of 22 July 2021 I dont think NatWest were at fault for the delay in 
opening Gs business account online. I accept that Mr G was getting an error message on 
online banking for about a week, but this seems to have been easily cleared up by the 
adviser he spoke to telling him the correct option to select. And I think if hed called NatWest 
sooner its likely this issue would have been resolved sooner. The account application went 
through on 23 July 2021, and following some further standard questions and documents to 
sign was opened on 9 August 2021. I dont think this was an unreasonable timescale.
Ill now turn to the delays Mr G said he experienced in setting up online banking for Gs 
account.
In the calls he made to NatWest on 29 August 2021 Mr G doesnt mention that G had 
already submitted an application for online banking or had experienced any problems with it.
He said he wanted to set up online banking for Gs account and asked about the process. 
So, from this conversation I dont think there were any delays with the process of setting up 
online banking for G prior to 29 August 2021.
I can see that the online banking application was successfully submitted on 17 September 
2021. The application contained the email address Mr G used in the account application.
The audit trail shows it was then emailed to G, at the same email address, to be signed. Mr 
G viewed the document on 17 September 2021, but was unable to sign it on that day 
because of the adobe docusign issues. He viewed it again on 24 September 2021 and 
signed it then.
So, it seems the only time the online application could have been delayed by NatWest was 
after Mr Gs calls on 29 August 2021 and before he signed the document on 24 September 
2021. We know that there was a delay caused by the adobe docusign issue between 17 and 
21 September 2021, which Ive taken into account. But I need to consider whether NatWest 
caused an additional delay between 29 August 2021 and when the application was 
successfully submitted on 17 September 2021.
NatWest dont have a record that G submitted any applications for online banking prior to the 
successful application of 17 September 2021. The investigator asked Mr G for evidence of 
any applications for online banking between 29 August and 17 September; for example, by 
way of an email confirmation. Mr Gs not been able to supply that.
If G had attempted to submit an application prior to 17 September 2021, I think there would 
have been a record of it, because it would have gone through to NatWest  despite what the 
adviser said about the email black hole. I say this because Gs application of 17 September 
2021 didnt go into an email black hole. It did go through successfully even though it 
contained an incorrect email address according to NatWests adviser. And NatWest 
acknowledged Gs application by sending an email to the same email address.
At present, I just havent seen enough evidence to show that G attempted to submit the 
online application earlier than 17 September 2021, to say NatWest caused a delay here. But 
Id like to give Mr G, on behalf of G, an opportunity to submit any further comments or 
evidence about this point.After the adobe docusign issues were resolved, Mr G was able to sign the online banking 
agreement on 24 September 2021. After this point, the delay was because NatWest had 
asked for the signature of the other director of G at that time, rather than due to any systems 
or email address issues. So, I dont think the adviser Mr G spoke to on 28 September 2021 
gave him the correct reason about why online banking wasnt yet set up. I can fully 
understand why Mr G was frustrated at being told his email address was incorrect at this 
point in the process. But as far as I can see, this simply wasnt the correct information about 
what was causing the delay.
I can see that the whole process of applying for online banking for Gs business account has 
been frustrating for Mr G. And I do think hes received some incorrect information about the 
position of the application from NatWest which hasnt helped matters. But Im not persuaded, 
from what Ive seen so far, that NatWest caused any significant delays in Gs online banking 
application being processed, other than the relatively short delay between 17 and 21 
September 2021 due to the adobe docusign issues.
Having listened to the calls, I do think some of the information given by NatWests advisers 
was confusing, and appeared to have been incorrect at some points. Understandably, this 
served to heighten Mr Gs frustration with the overall process, which doesnt seem to have 
been straightforward to navigate. But I dont think the incorrect information caused any delay 
in setting up Gs online banking. And G is the eligible complainant here, not Mr G. G, as a 
company, cant experience frustration or upset, so I cant award it compensation because of 
how Mr G felt.
As Ive said, there was a short delay in setting up Gs online banking due to the adobe 
docusign problems between 17 and 21 September 2021, which NatWest accept. But they 
have already paid G £200 to recognise that things didnt go smoothly with the online banking 
application process overall. I think this is fair and reasonable, taking into account the length 
of the delay. And I dont think they need to do anything else here.
I asked G and NatWest to reply with anything else they wished to add before I issued my 
final decision.
NatWest replied to say they accepted the provisional decision. 
G replied with various points about our findings and the progress of the investigation, but in 
relation to the outcome of the complaint about NatWest it said, in summary:
NatWest admitted there was a problem with their system and accepted fault;
Proof that the document was signed via docusign was provided; and 
We said that if evidence was provided that confirmed NatWest was at fault wed find in 
Gs favour. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive said in my provisional decision, NatWest have accepted (and I agree) that a problem 
with the docusign system caused a delay to Gs online banking application. This delay was 
between 17 and 21 September 2021. NatWest have already paid G £200 to recognise things 
didnt go smoothly here.Ive not found that NatWest caused any other delays to Gs application  and Ive not seen 
anything in response to my provisional decision to change my decision on that point.
Overall, I still find that NatWest have already paid fair compensation for the delay caused by 
the docusign system, taking into account the impact this relatively short delay would have 
had on G. So, I dont think NatWest need to do anything else here.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman