DRN-3020405
The complaint
Mr C has complained about Santander UK Plc blocking and closing his account.
What happened
In 2019, Santander carried out a review of Mr Cs current account. They found that another 
business had put information on CIFAS  the national fraud prevention agency  which 
linked Mr Cs contact details to some fraudulent activity.
Following the review, Santander wrote to Mr C explaining theyd withdrawn his banking 
facilities with immediate effect, and the account would remain blocked until it was closed in 
30 days time. The only reason they gave Mr C was that they found adverse data in their 
review. They advised him to speak with the credit reference agencies or CIFAS.
Mr C says his credit score was excellent, and he couldnt find anything against him on 
CIFAS. He thought the matter was linked to an incident in 2016, where Santander had 
stopped a payment to a foreign merchant for security checks. Mr C felt Santander had 
racially profiled him.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained why Santander had closed the account, and explained that Santander could 
decide who they did business with. They looked carefully at the matter and found nothing to 
suggest that this issue was linked to Mr Cs ethnic background  only to the adverse 
information that had been recorded against his contact details.
Mr C didnt agree. He pointed out that Santander hadnt given him the proper notice, which 
caused him trouble with things like paying his bills and direct debits. He felt confident this 
was linked to the 2016 incident. He clarified he didnt want his account re-opened, but just 
wanted redress for what had happened. The complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr C and Santander a provisional decision on 9 July 2021, to explain why I thought 
the complaint should be upheld in part. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, Im considering upholding Mr Cs complaint in part  Ill 
explain why.
Santander were entitled to review Mr Cs account and to check things with credit reference 
agencies and fraud databases. They were also entitled to end their relationship with Mr C  
in a similar way to how Mr C was entitled to close his accounts and end his relationship with 
them.
However, under the terms of the account Santander had to give Mr C two months notice 
before closing his account. That wouldve given him time to set up a new account elsewhere. 
Here, they technically gave Mr C 30 days notice before closing the account  but in practice, 
since they blocked the account with immediate effect, they didnt really give Mr C any notice.
Under the terms, Santander could close Mr Cs account with immediate effect if he act[ed] 
in any way to give rise to reasonable suspicion of fraud or other criminal activities. 
Santanders argument is that because they found some of Mr Cs details on a fraud entry, 
that meant they were entitled to block the account immediately under those terms.
But I wouldnt necessarily expect Santander to close Mr Cs account simply because theyd 
found his details on CIFAS. CIFASs own guidance says:
CIFAS members can undertake checks against the database. If a CIFAS record is returned 
as a result of these checks a member must not simply reject an application or close a facility 
and they are required to carry out further investigation to confirm that the personal data 
provided on the application is correct.
Ive not seen any evidence from Santander which satisfies me that they did carry out such 
an investigation. For example, I cant see that they asked Mr C any questions about the 
information on CIFAS or spoke to the business who recorded the data. And I cant see that 
they found any activity on Mr Cs own account with them which mightve given rise to a 
suspicion of fraud. So, on this basis, I dont think Santander had done enough here to qualify 
closing Mr Cs account immediately in the circumstances. Thats a step that shouldnt be 
taken lightly and that can have a real impact on a customer.
With that said, as noted earlier, Santander could have closed the account in any case so 
long as they gave Mr C two months notice. I think thats what they shouldve done instead if 
they wanted to end the relationship.
Because they closed Mr Cs account without notice, he had to go to branch with ID to 
withdraw his money, he had to rush to transfer everything to a new bank, and he had trouble 
getting his important direct debits and bills looked after in the meantime. I understand this 
caused Mr C a fair amount of stress and inconvenience. Of course, Santander would have 
been able to close Mr Cs account in any case, and even with two months notice he would 
have faced some trouble and upset in having to find a new account. But I think much of the 
trouble and upset he faced here could have been avoided if hed been given the proper time 
to move his account.
Where a business has got things wrong, we often tell them to pay compensation, to 
acknowledge their error and the impact it had. I think it would be fair for Santander to pay 
Mr C £100 as compensation for the trouble and upset caused in not giving him the full two 
months notice.
I have carefully considered what Mr C told us regarding his concerns about racial profiling, 
and I appreciate hes been candid and open with us about this. Ive looked into Santanders 
internal records and into why they closed his account, and I cannot see anything to suggest 
this was based on his ethnic background or any racial profiling. As far as I can see, 
Santander closed his account because of the negative data that had been linked to his 
contact details on the fraud database.I also understand Mr C thought that his account closure might have been linked to an issue 
in 2016. In brief, he was trying to make a payment to a foreign merchant. But because the 
merchant was in another country while Mr C was based in the UK, and because the online 
security password had been entered incorrectly, Santander had stopped the payment for 
further security checks. Ive looked closely at this point, and I have found no substantial 
connection between the 2016 incident and the closure of Mr Cs account in 2019. Again: as 
far as I can see, Santanders decision to close Mr Cs account was based on the information 
from the fraud database.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me. Both sides made some further 
submissions, which Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander said they only had to give Mr C 30 days notice. But their terms and conditions 
say we may close your account at any time by giving the other notice if we decide to do 
this well give you at least two months notice. The only mention of 30 days notice is for 
non-payment accounts, which does not apply here. It does not specify any other amount of 
notice. In any case, Santander did not give Mr C any real notice since they blocked the 
account with immediate effect.
Santander argued that while Mr Cs facilities were withdrawn with immediate effect, they 
technically didnt close the account until a month later. But as I said before, the terms said to 
give at least two months notice. And more importantly, in practice they gave him no notice at 
all since they blocked the account with immediate effect  so whether it was technically still 
open or not, he couldnt use it. And thats the main thing.
Mr C strongly expressed that he was still unhappy. He asked for evidence that Santander 
had based their decision on CIFAS data, so we sent him the relevant internal records. But 
Mr C reiterated that he didnt believe there was anything pertaining to him on CIFAS. I do 
appreciate Mr Cs strength of feeling. But having looked carefully at the relevant evidence, 
I can see that Santander saw negative data linked to his contact details on the fraud 
database, and thats why they closed his account.
Mr C reiterated hed been mistreated, and that the immediate account closure had caused 
him a good deal of stress. As before, I agree that Santander treated him unfairly by closing 
his account without any real notice  though I accept they could have closed it in any case, 
just by giving him two months notice instead. I can see that this lack of notice caused Mr C 
some real trouble and upset, so as before I think Santander need to pay him £100 
compensation for that.
Lastly, Mr C mentioned hed had trouble accessing an investment account with a different 
business. Santander only closed this account here, not any accounts with other businesses. 
And as far as I can see, they didnt add any entries onto the fraud database themselves 
which might have caused his other account to get blocked or closed. So Mr Cs trouble with 
the investment account would not have been due to Santander doing something wrong. But 
Mr C can complain about that other business separately if theyre not letting him access his 
account.My final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint in part, and direct Santander UK Plc to pay him £100 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman