DRN-2711287
The complaint
Mr M is represented by a claims management company (CMC) in bringing his complaint. 
The CMC says Mr M was given unsuitable advice by Santander UK Plc to invest three lump 
sums totalling £150,000 into two guaranteed investment plans in late 2005.
What happened
The CMC complained to Santander in April 2020. It said, in summary that Mr Ms attitude to 
risk was not fully assessed. It submitted that the level of risk within the investments was 
inappropriate for him, and took up too much of his available capital at a time when he had 
recently retired. Finally, it said it believed that Santanders adviser hadnt considered Mr Ms 
future needs and objectives.
The CMC also expressed concerns on any possible returns that could be made by the 
investments when fixed-rate bonds of 5.15% pa were being offered at that time by high 
street banks. It said the appropriate advice was to have placed Mr Ms funds in a high 
interest savings account which would have provided him with a healthy return on his savings 
while at the same time guaranteeing his capital, and in addition saving him the cost of the 
initial fees and annual charges that naturally came with the products he was sold. 
The CMC set out that redress ought to be paid to Mr M by Santander comparing the returns 
he made from the two investments in 2011 against fixed rate bonds over the same period.  
Santander rejected the complaint. It said it was satisfied that the investments sold to Mr M in 
2005 were suitable for his needs. It noted that both of the investments were secure and 
presented no risk to Mr Ms initial capital; they were suitable for customers such as Mr M 
with a very low tolerance to risk, offering a return of a minimum 20% and a maximum capped 
44%. It also said that Mr M held the investments for the full term, and this indicated he had 
not needed to rely on those funds. 
The CMC brought the complaint to this service. It explained that Mr M disagreed with 
Santanders outcome on his complaint. It said Mr M was provided with projections within 
product literature under the section what you might get back. This illustrated returns of 
23.10 %. It said that if Santander had compared this illustration of the estimated growth to 
fixed rate bonds over a similar period of time it would have been clear that this investment 
was an illogical gamble compared to a five-year fixed rate bond instead.  
The CMC also felt that the products were fundamentally flawed and the adviser ought to 
have known that the Safety Plus Growth Plans shouldnt be recommended to Mr M. This 
was because unless the FTSE performance hit the 4% cap in all 11 bi-annual periods of the 
five and a half year term, the overall 44% return could not be achieved; this was almost 
impossible as the FTSE does not grow in a linear fashion. The CMC therefore considered 
that Mr M was not given clear, fair, and information which was not misleading. As a result he 
was denied the opportunity to make an informed decision.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. He did not think the complaint should 
succeed. He said that though there was an absence of documentation from the time of the 
sale, he did not believe there was sufficient evidence to conclude Santanders adviser had 
behaved unfairly. And though there had been a global downturn in financial markets during 
the life of the investments, Santander could not have predicted that. He did not agree with 
the CMC that comparison of the performance of bonds should be used in order to reflect on 
possible better returns, as these are only known by applying hindsight.  
The CMC said Mr M disagreed. It said that the adviser had the option of fixed rate bonds 
open at the time advice was given to Mr M, and consideration of that recommendation 
instead wasnt using hindsight. Even if the investments Mr M was recommended had 
performed as normal without the 2008 stock market crash, they still wouldnt have been 
appropriate to advise to Mr M in the circumstances because of their flawed design. 
The CMC said that Mr M wanted the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. Santander 
had nothing further to add.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I am of the same view as our investigator - 
that this complaint should not succeed. Ill set out a summary of my reasons below.  
Very little documentation exists from the date of both sets of advice in 2005. Santander has 
destroyed its paper files as Mr Ms investments both matured in 2011. It isnt at fault for 
doing so, since it was required to act in accordance with relevant data protection rules. 
However, as a result there is no fact find information, evidence of what the parties discussed 
in 2005 or any type of verifiable assessment of Mr Ms investment objectives from that time. 
Nonetheless, there is some evidence available in the form of recollections from both parties 
and other wider circumstances known by Santander about Mr M due to his longstanding 
financial history with that business. Where there is conflicting evidence, I have concluded 
what I believe is most likely, on the balance of probabilities.
That the CMC is assessing the investments now by comparison to fixed rate bonds available 
is said with the benefit of hindsight. Mr M agreed to meeting with Santander; it was required 
to look at his circumstances at the time of the sale and make recommendations appropriate 
to his ascertained needs. 
I recognise that the CMC also makes points about the overall operation of the investments 
(specifically that the capped maximum return isnt possible) and proposes that I must 
conclude Mr M ought to have been recommended different investments. But I dont agree. 
We are not a regulator; that duty falls to the Financial Conduct Authority. So, it is not my role 
to assess the viability of an investment offering from a particular business in any governing 
capacity. My function is to provide dispute resolution by looking at both sides of a complaint 
and deciding if a business has acted unfairly or unreasonably. That means determining if the 
recommendation was suitable for Mr M in his circumstances (in this case, from the limited 
information available).  
Though the CMC says Mr M was recently retired and not in a position to tie up his funds in 
five and a half year investments, the limited evidence doesnt suggest that. Mr M already 
held a number of personal equity plans and he did have some limited investment 
experience. In any event, I dont consider the recommendations were unsuitable on a risk 
basis given their guaranteed offering of a 20% return when held for the full investment term. Further and importantly, Mr M returned to Santander seven months later for additional 
investment advice, following which he invested another £35,000 into a guaranteed growth 
bond which matured in late 2011, without Mr M having made any capital withdrawals. In my 
view this suggests that a) Mr M was likely advised about bonds as well as the Safety Growth 
Plans that he invested in first; and b) Mr M did not place an unreasonable proportion of his 
available capital into the two investments, given he was able to make a further sizeable 
investment shortly thereafter.  
The key features information issued to Mr M regarding the Safety Growth Plans explained 
how his investments operated and the calculation of possible returns depending on the 
performance of the FTSE or otherwise as guaranteed, whichever was higher. Im satisfied 
that Santander provided clear and relevant information about these investments. And whilst 
there is not contemporaneous evidence from 2005, I believe the information was clearly 
presented as a means to achieving Mr Ms stated aims.  
Whilst I recognise that making 22% and 20% returns on the two investments may now 
appear less favourable than other investment options available at the time, this is only 
known with the benefit of hindsight; dissatisfaction with the performance of an investment is 
not a reason of itself to indicate that there was anything wrong with Santanders advice or 
recommendation. As it stands, there simply is no clear or persuasive evidence that 
Santander has done anything wrong.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint nor do I make any award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman