DRN-3227898
The complaint
Mr E complains about the fees charged to an Individual Savings Account (ISA) he holds with 
The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited. 
What happened
Mr E has held an ISA with Royal London for about ten years. 
In April 2019 Royal London sent Mr E a statement with a breakdown of charges applied to 
his ISA. The statement showed that over of £6,000 had been charged in the previous period. 
Mr E thought this was too high so complained to Royal London.
Royal London took a long time to provide a full response so Mr E brought his complaint to 
our service. One of our Investigators looked into things and explained there were three 
different types of charges all of which they thought had been correctly applied.  
Mr E didnt agree saying the fees were excessive, so the complaint has come to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to me how strongly Mr E feels about what happened. I want to assure him that Ive 
read and considered everything that has been provided, even if I dont mention it all in detail. 
Ive summarised what happened which reflects the informal nature of our service. But Im 
satisfied I understand the crux of the complaint which is about charges being made to Mr Es 
ISA.
There were three types of charges applied to Mr Es ISA; one-off, transaction, and on-going. 
One-off charges are no longer applied by Royal London but they were applicable when Mr E 
invested a total of £127,139.87 and was charged £1,907.10. This is a charge of just over 
1.5% which was below the average fee of 1.7% that applied at the time across the three 
funds in the ISA. I know some of the money was switched between funds however the fees 
still apply as they are separate investments.
Transaction charges werent required to be disclosed prior to 2018 so these wouldnt have 
appeared previously on any statements, but they were charged. For the period in question 
the amount of £468.52 was charged which Im satisfied is correct. This is for costs 
associated with buying and selling assets outside the nominated funds. 
The on-going charges have an average rate of 1.5% across the three funds. Mr E was 
charged £3,746.45 which was less than 1.5% so Im satisfied it was correctly applied. This 
charge is calculated daily on the balance of the investment so can change depending on the 
value, but over the period the correct amount was charged. 
Mr E says that the charges are excessive as they are about 2.48% of his investment. I 
realise this is a lot of money and can see why Mr E is unhappy. However Im persuaded the 
charges have been calculated correctly. I do recognise that some of the statements provided 
werent as clear as they could be, however at the time Royal London was disclosing the 
information in the way the rules said they should. Moving forward some of these rules have 
changed so the charges will be clearer. 
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied Royal London acted fairly 
and reasonably when applying the charges to Mr Es ISA.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman