DRN-2501684
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them payment protection insurance 
(PPI) alongside their mortgage and some additional borrowing. Ill refer to the business as 
HSBC in the rest of this decision. 
Mr and Mrs B took out a joint mortgage through HSBC. HSBC cant say exactly when, but 
can say it was before March 1996. In March 1996, HSBC transferred its records on to a 
new system. Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage and PPI shows up from the start on that new 
system. The PPI policy covered Mr B only for accident, sickness and unemployment for up 
to 12 months per successful claim. It cost £11.88 per month for £200 per month of cover.
In November 1996, Mr and Mrs B increased their borrowing and alongside that increased 
their level of PPI cover to £400 per month. The policy cost went up to £23.76 per month. 
Again, only Mr B was covered under the policy for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Mr and Mrs B complained to HSBC about the mis-sale of the PPI. HSBC didnt uphold 
their complaint and so Mr and Mrs B referred it to our service. Our adjudicator looked into 
it, and didnt uphold it. So, Mr and Mrs B asked for their case to be referred to an 
ombudsman. 
Their complaint now comes to me for a decision. I apologise to Mr and Mrs B as I can see 
there has been some delay in passing their case to an ombudsman. 
I have read that Mr and Mrs B had more general concerns about how the bank treated 
them. But, our adjudicator explained, they would need to raise these concerns with HSBC 
first. So, I am just dealing with Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about the mis-sale of PPI here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it 
here. Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
The sale of PPI took place twenty plus years ago. HSBC no longer has a copy of the 
paperwork from the time of sale. Based on the information available I dont have enough to 
fairly conclude that Mr and Mrs B werent told about the optional nature of PPI when the 
policy was first sold to them, and when the cover was increased. So, I cant fairly uphold 
their complaint on this basis.
PPI taken out prior to March 1996 
Mr and Mrs B couldnt recall this PPI being recommended to them. HSBC said it probably 
was. To be fair to Mr and Mrs B, I have worked on the basis that this was a recommended 
sale. Thats because if it was, HSBC wouldve had the added responsibility of only 
recommending a policy to them if it was suitable for their needs and circumstances at the 
time. Whether it was a recommended policy or not, HSBC had to give Mr and Mrs B 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading about the PPI, so that they could make 
an informed choice and decide if they wanted to buy it.
Although this policy only covered Mr B, I have taken into account Mrs Bs circumstances too 
when deciding this complaint, thats because they were taking out the borrowing in joint 
names. 
I cant see that this policy was unsuitable for Mr B. Ill explain why.
Mr B appeared eligible to take out PPI given his circumstances. Mrs B didnt 
appear to be eligible as she was working less than 16 hours per week. So, it 
doesnt look in appropriate that the policy was taken out in Mr Bs name only.
Mr B was working at the time of sale, but said he wouldnt get any sick pay 
through work. The policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per successful 
claim for accident, sickness and unemployment. Mrs B said she was working 
less than 16 hours per week. They said they had no other means to make their 
repayments from. So, I think the policy couldve provided Mr and Mrs B with a 
valuable benefit to protect their home if Mr B was out of work. They couldve 
used Mrs Bs income to pay towards their other outgoings, particularly as their 
household income wouldve been reduced if Mr B wasnt in work. So, I think PPI 
couldve provided them with a valuable benefit in their circumstances. 
The premium was paid monthly, so they couldve cancelled PPI at any time 
without losing out financially. They said they were told at one stage they couldnt 
cancel important insurances (including house insurance), but they did. So, this 
doesnt affect my decision.
Mr and Mrs B didnt have to pay interest on the premiums and I cant see that the 
policy was unaffordable.
Mr B was not affected by any of the main limitations or exclusions in cover, so as 
he couldve benefitted from everything the policy offered, I dont think having 
more information about these things wouldve put them off taking PPI.
Its possible HSBC couldve given Mr and Mrs B clearer information, 
particularly about the costs and benefits. But, for the reasons explained, I think 
they wouldve likely still taken out the policy because of the protection it 
afforded them, in their circumstances, and it appeared suitable for their needs 
and affordable.
PPI taken out in November 1996
Mr and Mrs B said their work and other circumstances were the same in November 
1996, when they increased their borrowing. They also increased their PPI policy to 
cover the extra mortgage payment they had to make. The cover they took out doubled 
from £200 to £400 per month.
Given that Mr B still wasnt eligible to get any work related benefits, they had no 
savings or other means of making their repayments and Mrs B was working less than 
16 hours per week still, I think PPI wouldve provided them with valuable protection. 
Mr Bs circumstances were the same, so I cant see that he wouldve been affected by 
the main limitations or policy exclusions. So, for the same reasons as given above, I 
cant see that the policy was unsuitable for them.As, Ive already explained, I also think that even if they had been given clearer 
information about the PPI by HSBC they wouldve still taken PPI.
So, it follows, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman