DRN-3109924
The complaint
Mr R complains that UK Credit Limited (UKCL) shouldnt have allowed him to be a
guarantor on a loan.
What happened
In January 2011, Mr R agreed to stand as a guarantor on a loan of £3,000 for Mr A, a 
relative. It was secured by way of a Guarantee and Indemnity agreement and was to be 
repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £151.15. Mr R said he hadnt wanted to be the guarantor 
and had hoped UKCL wouldnt accept him. But they did, and as his relative couldnt meet the 
payments hed had to step in. Mr R said hed used a credit card and a loan from another 
family member to settle the loan in February 2012.
Mr R after seeing a money advice programme complained to UKCL as he didnt think theyd 
done enough to check the loan was affordable.
UKCL said the complaint had been brought too late. Mr R referred his complaint to us. We 
decided that we could consider Mr Rs complaint. UKCL said as the loan had been taken out 
in January 2011 and settled a year later, they no longer had any records about it. 
Our investigator asked Mr R to provide details of his financial situation at the time of the 
loan. And after reviewing the evidence provided didnt think Mr R was suitable to be a 
guarantor for the loan. Mr R had shown he made payments of £1,980 and £968.56 towards 
the loan. Our investigator said these should be refunded plus 8% simple interest.
UKCL after reviewing Mr Rs bank statement didnt agree. They said Mr R had enough 
disposable income to be able to step in to cover the loan repayment. They asked for an 
ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
UKCL had responsibility for ensuring that the loan repayments would be affordable and
sustainable for Mr R before agreeing that he could be the guarantor for it. This meant that  
UKCL needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether the 
borrower and Mr R could afford to make all the loan payments.  
Ive considered the following questions:
Did UKCL obtain Mr Rs properly informed consent to become guarantor for the 
loan?
Did UKCL carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr R 
was in a position to sustainably repay the loan, in the event that the borrower did 
not? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the 
time? And
did UKCL make a fair lending decision (as Mr R would be equally liable for this
loan with the borrower).
The difficulty here is that because of the time that has elapsed the affordability assessment 
and any discussions UKCL had with Mr R about his being the guarantor are no longer 
available. So, Ive considered the evidence provided by Mr R that would be a strong 
indication of whether the loan was affordable and sustainable. UKCL has been provided with 
the same information.
Ive considered the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice when someone
complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending. Theres no set list for what 
reasonable and proportionate checks are. But Id expect lenders to consider the specific 
circumstances of the loan application. What constitutes a proportionate affordability check 
will generally depend on several factors such as financial history, current situation and 
whether there are any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. 
But there are factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check should be for 
a given loan application. Consideration should be given to the amount, type and cost of 
credit. For example:
the consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher amount from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the consumer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
The financial information available to consider this complaint is limited as its more than six 
years since the loan was taken out, its not possible to consider the borrower and Mr Rs 
credit file at the time the loan was agreed. But Mr R has given his bank statements prior to 
the loan being agreed and details of other loans he was guaranteeing for Mr A.
UKCL has carried out an income and expenditure from these bank statements that they say 
show Mr R after the loan payment was taken into account would have had a surplus income 
of around £270. I have also looked at Mr Rs bank statements for the three months prior to 
the loan, Ive calculated hed an average surplus income of around £205. The bank 
statements dont show payments Mr R was at times making as a guarantor for another 
£3,000 loan Mr A had. Mr R said he was making the payments for these by credit card, his 
bank statements show fluctuating amounts being repaid to his credit card. UKCL has taken 
these to be £150 per month, but I think the monthly average should be £175.
Mr R has shown that the other guarantor loan was taken out in July 2010, again it was for 
£3,000 payable by 36 monthly instalments of £151.19. Mr R has shown that Mr A didnt 
make the first payment, and that hed had to step in from the beginning and had to cover the 
payment on a number of occasions. 
I would expect this other guarantor loan to have been evident on both Mr A and Mr Rs credit 
files at the time of the loan application with UKCL. This I think should ask the question why 
Mr A would have needed another £3,000 loan as soon as January 2011, and the affordability of the January 2011 loan given he was already struggling to make the repayments on the 
July 2010 loan. I also think this showed Mr A had a reliance on this sort of expensive credit. 
And his level of indebtedness would have increased on taking out the new loan. So, I 
question whether UKCL made a fair lending decision when agreeing to the loan for Mr A. 
But Mr R was in receipt of child tax credit and working tax credit, which shows hed 
dependents. His bank statement had his average monthly spend on food as only £75 which I 
think is at a low level. And taking the July 2010 loan into account I think this would have 
reduced Mr Rs average surplus income each month to around £54 only. So, I dont think    
Mr R could sustainably repay the loan in the event that Mr A didnt. It follows therefore that 
Mr R shouldnt have been accepted as a guarantor for this loan.
Mr R settled the loan in February 2012 and has showed that this was done by using his 
credit card and borrowing from other relatives. These payments were £1980 and £968.56 
respectively.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask UK Credit Limited to refund Mr R £2948.56 plus 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit Limited to take off tax from this interest. UK 
Credit Limited must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks 
for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman