DRN-4049002
The complaint
Ms M, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proportionate affordability checks before it granted her loans. 
What happened
Ms M was advanced six home collected loans and Ive included some of the information 
weve received about them in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
weekly 
instalmentscost per week 
per loan
1 £200.00 18/12/2018 06/06/2019 33 £10.00
2 £300.00 06/06/2019 21/11/2019 33 £15.00
3 £500.00 21/11/2019 18/06/2020 34 £25.00
4 £500.00 18/06/2020 10/12/2020 34 £25.00
5 £500.00 10/12/2020 15/07/2021 34 £25.00
6 £500.00 15/07/2021 outstanding 35 £25.00
Ms M has had some problems repaying her final loan, and Morses told us as of 
September 2022 she still owed £500. 
Following Ms Ms complaint Morses wrote to her representative to explain that it wasnt 
going to uphold the complaint. Ms Ms representative didnt accept the outcome and instead 
referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, where an adjudicator reviewed 
it. She thought Morses had made a reasonable decision to provide loans 1  3 so she didnt 
uphold Ms Ms complaint about these loans. And she thought the lending was now harmful 
for Ms M by the time loans 4 - 6 were granted and so she upheld Ms Ms complaint about 
these loans. 
Morses partly agreed with the outcome the adjudicator had reached. It agreed to put things 
right for Ms M in relation to loan 6 only  after its calculations Ms M would still owe Morses 
£110  as of March 2023. However, it didnt agree with the outcome in relation to loans 4 
and 5 and Ive summarised its response below. 
There is no evidence Ms M was using other funds to repay the loans that then led her 
to borrow again. 
For loans 4 and 5 the loan values remained the same and as the loans didnt 
increase or overlap and so her commitment remained the same - £25. 
Adequate affordability checks were carried out before these loans were approved 
which included using date from a credit search to work out Ms Ms credit 
commitments and then using data from the Office of National Statistics (ONS) to pre-
populate minimum figures for her expenditure. 
Ms M didnt tell Morses she was having financial difficulties. 
Morses offer for loan 6 was put to Ms Ms representatives but no response was received as 
to whether Ms M accepted it or not. Therefore, as no agreement could be reached, the case 
was then passed to an ombudsman to make a decision about the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms M could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and 
Ms Ms income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms M. These factors include:
Ms M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms M. The adjudicator thought this 
applied in Ms Ms complaint from loan 4. 
Morses was required to establish whether Ms M could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms M was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Ms complaint.
Neither Morses nor Ms M (or her representative) appear to disagree with the outcome the 
adjudicator reached about loans 1  3. I therefore no longer think these loans are in dispute. 
I would add, that like the adjudicator, I do agree Morses made a reasonable decision to 
provide these loans. So, I say no more about them.In addition, in response to the adjudicators assessment, Morses agreed to put things right 
for loan 6 only. So, this loan is also no longer in dispute, but I have included what Morses 
needs to do in order to put things right for Ms M at the end of the decision. Instead, this 
decision will focus on whether Morses was correct in approving loans 4 and 5. 
Loans 4 and 5 
For these loans, Morses has shown that it asked Ms M for details of her income and 
expenditure. For loan 4 Ms M declared a weekly income of £218.05. For loan 5 she declared 
she received £240 per week. Morses also says this information was checked with a credit 
reference agency  but the results of that check havent been provided. 
In terms of expenditure, for loan 4  Morses has recorded these to be £160 per week and 
then £177.50 for loan 5. This left weekly disposable income as low as £58.05 when loan 4 
was advanced. Based solely on Ms Ms income and expenditure information Morses 
couldve been reasonably confident she would be able to afford the repayments she was 
committed to making for loans 4 and 5. 
But its arguable whether these checks went far enough considering how long Ms M had 
been indebted to Morses, her future weekly commitment and what Morses already knew 
about Ms Ms finances. For example, when Ms M was applying for loan 4  Morses knew 
that Ms M had outstanding home credit loan(s), and her total commitment to such loans was 
£62 per week. 
By now, it wouldve been reasonable for Morses to have at the very least, started to have 
verified the information it was being given. Ive not seen anything to suggest it carried out 
further checks in this case. However, I dont think I need to try and establish, in this case, 
whether a proportionate check wouldve led Morses to conclude these loans were 
unaffordable for Ms M because for the reasons set out below, by now, the loans werent 
sustainable for her. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending history with Ms M, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. Given the particular circumstances of Ms Ms 
case, I think that this point was reached by loan 4. I say this because:
At this point Morses ought to have realised Ms M was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Ms M had taken out four loans in 19 months. So Morses ought to 
have realised it was more likely than not Ms M was having to borrow further to cover 
a long-term short fall in her living costs. 
From her first loan, Ms M was provided with a new loan on the same day a previous 
loan was repaid. To me, this is a sign that Ms M was using these loans to fill a long-
term gap in her income rather than as a short-term need.  
Over the course of the lending relationship, Ms Ms weekly commitments generally 
increased, when loan 4 was granted her commitment was more than double the 
amount due for loan 1. There was no time when her weekly commitment decreased. 
However, the fact that these loans were lent in a consecutive manner, ought to have 
led it to realise these loans werent sustainable anymore. 
Ms M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Morses. Loan 5 was 
taken out 2 years after Ms Ms first loan and was to be repaid over a similar term. 
This loan was more than twice the value of her first loan  leading to a repayment of 
£25 per week. Ms M had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to 
Morses over an extended period.I think that Ms M lost out when Morses provided loans 4 and 5 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ms indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time
the number of loans and the length of time over which Ms M borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Ms Ms ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
Overall, Im upholding Ms Ms complaint about loans 4  6 and Ive outlined below what 
Morses needs to do in order to put things right.  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had if it had stopping lending from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms M may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms M would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have provided Ms M with loans 4, 5 and 6. 
If Morses have sold the outstanding debt Morses should buy it back if Morses is able to do 
so and then take the following steps. If Morses is not able to buy the debt back then Morses 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms M towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything Morses have already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Ms M which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms M originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Ms M as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Ms M 
having made overpayments then Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Morses should then refund 
the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.D. If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Ms M. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Ms M. 
E. The overall pattern of Ms Ms borrowing for loans 4 - 6 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Morses should remove these loans entirely from 
Ms Ms credit file. Morses does not have to remove loan 6 from Ms Ms credit file until 
it has been repaid, but Morses should still remove any adverse information recorded 
about the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Ms Ms complaint in part. 
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Ms M as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman