DRN-1377620
 
The complaint
Mr T complains that Cia Insurance Services Limited included a legal helpline add-on to his 
home insurance at renewal without his consent.
What happened
Mr T renewed his home insurance with Cia over the phone. He was asked if he wanted 
access to a legal helpline facility for an annual cost of £5. Mr T declined as he had access to 
a legal helpline on another policy he held with Cia. 
When his renewal documents were received that day, Mr T noticed that hed been charged 
£5 for the legal helpline. He was unhappy this was included when he specifically said he 
didnt want it. So he sent an email raising his concerns. 
Cia refunded the £5 charge the following day. However Mr T requested compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused. Cia agreed to refund the £4.50 renewal fee by way of an apology. 
Mr T doesnt believe this adequately compensates him for whats gone wrong. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She acknowledged that Cia had included the 
legal helpline add-on after Mr T said he didnt want it. But she was satisfied he was refunded 
the next day so the trouble and upset experienced was minimal. For that reason, she didnt 
think Cia needed to pay any more than the £4.50 it already had. 
Mr T didnt agree, so his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not disputed that Mr T told Cia he didnt want the legal helpline facility. But it was 
included anyway. So I dont need to make a finding as to whether Cia did anything wrong  
Cia acknowledges that it did. What I need to decide is whether Cia has done enough to put 
things right. Im satisfied it has. And I will explain why. 
Where a business has done something wrong, I would usually expect it to put the customer 
back in the position they would have been in had everything been done correctly. In this 
case, if Cia had acted correctly, Mr T wouldnt have been charged £5 for the legal helpline 
facility. As Cia has removed the facility from his policy and refunded the £5 charge, Mr T has 
been put back in the position he would have been in. 
Not everything that goes wrong warrants compensation. Sometimes mistakes happen and 
it's enough for a business to apologise and put things back to how they should have been. I 
would only award compensation where I can see a customer has suffered some loss or 
harm from whats happened. In Mr Ts case, he had to send Cia an email making them aware of its error. But Cia actioned 
this immediately, and Mr T was only without the £5 for one day. I havent seen anything to 
show me that Mr T suffered any further impact as a result of what went wrong.  
Cia has also refunded a £4.50 admin fee by way of compensation. Taking into account how 
quickly things were sorted out, I think this enough to put things right. And I wont be asking 
Cia to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman