DRN-3683927
The complaint
Mrs E has complained about Ageas Insurance Limiteds decisions to decline a claim she 
made for an escape of water at her home.
What happened
The details and background of this complaint are well known to all parties, so I will not repeat 
them again in full detail here. But to briefly summarise, Mrs E made a claim for a potential 
leak in her kitchen in October 2021.
Ageas inspected the leak and determined it had been ongoing for a significant period of 
time, and that it would have been noticeable. So, Ageas declined the claim on the basis that 
the damage happened gradually  which is excluded under the policy.
Mrs E raised a complaint about Ageas decision and referred it to our service. Our 
investigator considered things and concluded that Mrs Es complaint should be upheld. She 
accepted the damage had happened gradually, but she didnt think Ageas had sufficiently 
evidenced that Mrs E would have been aware of damage occurring before she reported the 
claim. So, she felt Ageas decision was unfair. She recommended that Ageas should 
reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions.
Ageas said it had reconsidered the claim and maintained its view that damage which 
happened gradually wasnt covered. It also said the damage would have been visible for a 
significant period of time, but Mrs E hadnt taken sufficient action to mitigate the damage. So, 
it maintained its decision to decline the claim.
Because no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs E has brought her claim and complaint through a representative. But for ease of 
reading, Ill only refer to Mrs E by name in this decision, even when referring to evidence or 
arguments put forward by her representative.
Having carefully considered the evidence and arguments, I agree with the conclusions 
reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mrs Es policy excludes damage which has happened gradually. So, under a strict 
application of the policy terms, Ageas can decline the claim. But the remit of our service also 
includes whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. And in relation to this type of 
complaint, our service has a long-standing approach that its unfair for insurers to rely on 
exclusions like this in circumstances where a policyholder wouldnt reasonably have been 
aware that damage was occurring  and did everything they could when they became 
aware.
Ageas surveyors report contains conflicting information about when Mrs E advised she 
noticed the damage. One section says the damage had been visible for a few months (from 
the point of the inspection) which is broadly consistent with when the claim was reported, 
and with what Mrs E told her own builder and our service. But another part of the report 
suggests Mrs E said damage had been evident for a year. 
Ive seen no other evidence to support that Mrs E had been aware of damage for a year. So, 
based on everything Ive seen, Im more persuaded that she didnt notice the damage until 
shortly before the claim was made. It follows that I dont agree that Mrs E failed to mitigate 
further damage.
Im also not persuaded that Mrs E ought reasonably to have been aware of the leak, or that 
damage was occurring, significantly before she made the claim. I say this because Ageas 
surveyors report suggests that the visible damage was a drop in the kitchen floor and 
worktop, and the partial rusting of some cabinet handles. Mrs Es builders report mentions 
some discolouration to kickboards and cupboard doors and some rusting to the cooker, in 
addition to the damage highlighted by Ageas surveyor. But this is all damage which was 
visible at the point of these inspections, which took place several months after Mrs E had 
noticed, and reported, the damage. 
Ageas surveyors report does say the damage occurred over time and would have been 
visible. But it doesnt specify at what point the damage would have become visible or how 
the surveyor arrived at this conclusion. So, I dont find the report particularly persuasive on 
this point. 
I also dont think it would be reasonable to conclude that Mrs E ought reasonably to have 
noticed discolouration of the kickboards or the kitchen floor dropping subtly over time. Nor do 
I think she ought reasonably to have associated any of the signs she might have noticed with 
a potential escape of water  prior to the point that she did. Particularly as there were no 
obvious issues with the dishwasher, water pressure or the water bills.
I note the surveyors report mentions parts of the kitchen floor were wet or saturated. But this 
appears to be based on moisture readings taken using specialist equipment, rather than the 
floor having been wet to the touch. It also mentions an intermittent musty smell. But Mrs E 
explained she attributed this to a separate leak elsewhere which she was aware of. So 
again, I dont think these issues would have made the escape of water obviously apparent to 
Mrs E.
I accept Mrs Es builders report also highlights other visible signs of damage. But as 
explained, these were at the point of the inspection which was several months after Mrs E 
had reported the claim. I dont agree that the builders report states, or supports, that there 
would have been obviously noticeable signs of damage significantly before Mrs E raised the 
claim.
Ultimately, Im not persuaded that Mrs E was aware, or ought reasonably to have been 
aware, of the leak or damage, significantly before she made the claim. So, I dont think its 
fair or reasonable for Ageas to decline her claim on the basis that she failed to mitigate the 
damage. Nor do I think it is fair or reasonable for Ageas to decline her claim on the basis of 
the gradually operating cause exclusion because Im satisfied, on balance, she took 
reasonable actions at the point she became aware.
Ageas cannot fairly decline Mrs Es claim based on the conditions/exclusions it has sought to 
rely on. So, to fairly resolve this complaint, it must reconsider the claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Ageas Insurance Limited must reconsider Mrs Es claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of her policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman