DRN-2056172
The complaint
Mr P complains Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (trading as the 'Post Office Money') closed one of 
his accounts. He's also unhappy he had to contact them when he couldn't use his online 
banking facility when he wanted to.
What happened
Mr P had several accounts with Bank of Ireland, in March 2019 they wrote to him to say they 
would be closing his current account as they would no longer be offering this type of 
account. They also said the account would need to be closed by mid-September 2019. 
In June 2019, Mr P tried to use the online banking facility to look at his account but found the 
link had been removed from the website. 
So Mr P complained to Bank of Ireland. Bank of Ireland didn't uphold the complaint. They 
apologised that due a technical error that part of the website was missing for a short time 
that day. However, they said Mr P had been given an alternative way of accessing the site, 
and the website was fixed within a couple of hours. 
Mr P wasn't happy with Bank of Ireland's response, so he complained to our service. He also 
said he was unhappy that his account was being closed and how this had been 
communicated to him. 
Our investigator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. She said it was a commercial 
decision for the business to withdraw this type of account, and they were entitled to do this. 
She also said Bank of Ireland had given Mr P sufficient notice that they would be closing it. 
The investigator also said although Mr P had been unable to access the online portal, this 
had only been for a short time and had minimal impact on him. 
Mr P didn't accept the investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to look into his 
complaint. He also added that he felt the account closure letters he'd received from Bank of 
Ireland were threatening.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I've decided not to uphold it. I'll explain why. I've seen that Bank of Ireland 
contacted Mr P by letter in March 2019 to let him know they weren't going to be offering 
current accounts as part of their product range from this date. And he needed to close his 
account by mid-September 2019.
The terms and conditions of Mr P's account explain that if Bank of Ireland decide to close his 
account, they will give him at least two months notice. And whilst I can appreciate this must 
be frustrating, it's something that Bank of Ireland are entitled to do.
 
I've seen that Bank of Ireland sent Mr P several letters and a text message before trying to 
close the account. They also gave him a six-month timescale to close his account, rather 
than the minimum two they'd agreed, and gave a list of options to assist Mr P in making a 
decision on what to do next. So based on the evidence I've seen I'm satisfied Bank of Ireland 
acted fairly.
 
I realise this will be disappointing to Mr P, and I understand the closure of his account has 
caused him inconvenience. But the bank can decide what products they wish to offer to their 
customers. So I can't fairly and reasonably say Bank of Ireland have done anything wrong 
here.
 
Mr P has said he found the letters about the account closure threatening. I've seen copies of 
the letters which were sent to Mr P, including the initial notification and actions required. But 
I haven't seen anything that suggests they were threatening, only confirmation that Mr P 
needed to take urgent action. And that if Mr P didn't take action himself then Bank of Ireland 
would be forced to do so on his behalf. So I'm satisfied Bank of Ireland communicated with 
Mr P in an appropriate way. 
I've seen that in June 2019, mid-way through the closure period, Mr P was unable to access 
the online banking for several hours, and he said it took several calls before the problem was 
resolved. Although, I haven't seen evidence to show that more than one call took place, I 
have listened to the call of 9 June when Mr P references that he had called Bank of Ireland 
previously and expressed his frustration that he was still unable to access the system.
 
I recognise Mr P is unhappy that Bank of Ireland didn't contact him to let him know there was 
an alternative way for him to log into his online banking, and that the previous day he was 
told it was a known issue that was being worked on. But it isn't clear from this call whether 
the alternative way to access the online banking had only been shared with staff that day. 
And the call handler was also clear that he didn't know when the update had taken place. 
However, I think its likely that if the previous call handler had been aware of the alternative 
access to the online banking portal, they would have told Mr P when he'd called them the 
day before.
 
There's no dispute there was an error with the online banking portal, and I recognise Mr P 
said he was inconvenienced because of this. But whilst I understand Mr P's position due to 
the issues he's experienced, I think the apology he's received from Bank of Ireland is enough 
to put things right. This is because the problem was resolved within a couple of days from 
when Mr P said he raised the issue, and he doesn't appear to have suffered any financial 
loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2020.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman