DRN-3132420
The complaint
Mr R complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc and their decision to close his local branch.
What happened
Mr R held an account with HSBC. In the spring of 2021, Mr R received a letter from HSBC 
explaining his local branch would be closing at the end of July. Mr R was unhappy about this 
so he raised his complaint at his local branch.
Mr R felt HSBCs decision to close the branch was made to save HSBC money. And in doing 
so, it impact him and other customers who either needed to travel further to the next branch 
or agree to service their account online which he didnt think was secure. He also didnt think 
it was reasonable to expect his local post office to pick up the services of the bank due to its 
size and the increased demand. So, he wanted HSBC to re-open the branch.
HSBC acknowledged the inconvenience Mr R would be caused and explained the reasons 
why that decision had been made in branch. They noted Mr R was happy the branch had 
taken the time to discuss this with him and issued a standard letter in response to his 
complaint. But Mr R remained unhappy with this, so he referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained HSBC had 
taken a commercial decision to close the branch. And they explained any commercial 
decisions HSBC make are deemed a business process, which is something this service is 
unable to consider or comment upon. They explained this would instead fall under the remit 
of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
But they did consider whether HSBC had fairly notified Mr R about the branch closure 
beforehand. And they thought HSBC had as Mr R received a letter before the closure in 
enough time to allow him to discuss this further. And they thought the letter also explained 
the alternative options available to Mr R when servicing his account moving forwards. So, 
they didnt think HSBC needed to do anything more.
Mr R didnt agree. He maintained his view that closing the branch was effectively forcing 
customers into using online and telephone banking which he thought were unsecure. He 
thought decisions such as HSBCs were leading the financial industry into a new crisis and 
he wanted banks such as this to recognise the impact this would have. Mr R was also 
unhappy that the FCA had failed to acknowledge his concerns, instead directing him back to 
our service. As Mr R didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr R. I dont doubt it wouldve 
been inconvenient for HSBC to close his local branch which he used regularly. I appreciate 
Mr R used the branch as the main way of servicing his account so I recognise the upset Mr 
R wouldve been caused when he was forced to change this through no fault of his own. I 
appreciate the alternative branches were further away and I also recognise Mr Rs concerns 
about using online or telephone banking.
But our service is unable to consider or comment upon HSBCs decision to close Mr Rs 
branch. This is because it is a commercial decision by HSBC and one they are entitled to 
make under their own business processes. Any issues with HSBC business processes 
would need to be directed to the FCA who regulate the industry as they are the only 
organisation that can recommend changes to them. I understand Mr R has referred this 
issue to the FCA and is unhappy with their response. This would be something Mr R would 
need to pursue with the FCA directly.
What I am able to consider is whether HSBC fairly notified Mr R of the intended closure and 
ensured he was aware of all the alternative options available to him. And from what Ive 
seen, I think they did.
Although the letter Ive seen from HSBC to Mr R isnt dated, Im satisfied it was sent to Mr R 
some time before the branch was closed. HSBC have referred to this as its twelve-week 
notification which satisfies me it was sent around twelve weeks before the end of July. And 
in any event, it gave Mr R enough time to visit the branch while it was still open and discuss 
the options available to him with branch staff directly. So, I think HSBC gave Mr R 
reasonable notice.
The letter also directs Mr R to HSBCs website, where he was able to search for documents 
explaining why the branch was being closed and impact it would have on the local 
community. Ive also seen HSBCs complaint notes which show the reasoning behind the 
decision was discussed with Mr R directly. So, I think HSBC fairly provided Mr R with their 
reasoning behind the closure.
And the letter also explains to Mr R which branch he could now service his account from, as 
well as providing alternative options such as online and telephone banking. I recognise Mr 
Rs comments about these options. But I think HSBC allowed Mr R a reasonable amount of 
time to consider these options and what action he wished to take before the branch closed. 
Because of this, I think HSBC acted fairly and dont need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr R was hoping for. Ive listened to the conversations Mr 
R held with our investigator and I recognise he has concerns about the security of online and 
telephone banking and the repercussions this may have on customers in the future. But as 
Ive explained above, its not my role to consider prospective losses caused by business 
processes implemented by banks such as HSBC. This would need to be referred to the 
FCA. I also recognise Mr Rs concerns about customers who may not have access to a 
computer and rely on local branch services. But my role is to consider only the service 
HSBC provided to Mr R directly and the impact it had solely on him as a customer. And 
having done so, Im unable to say HSBC have done anything wrong.
My final decisionFor the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman