DRN-2435950
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Countrywide Assured Plc sold them a fixed term life policy when 
theyd wanted a whole of life policy. 
What happened
In 2003 Mr and Mrs G took out a life policy with Countrywide. Theyve since found out the 
policy ends in 2023, which they queried with Countrywide given they believed they had a 
whole of life policy. Countrywide said it hadnt advised Mr and Mrs G on what policy to take 
out. And the policy they bought was based on the terms Mr and Mrs G had requested. 
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with Countrywides response and referred their complaint to our 
service. They said Countrywide hadnt made it clear on the documentation that the policy 
ended in 2023  and so they hadnt questioned this at the time. They want the policy to 
continue beyond 2023 on a whole of life basis. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold it. She said the proposal form 
Mr and Mrs G completed made it clear they were applying for fixed term life cover  and that 
it was their responsibility to check and amend the form as necessary before signing it  
particularly given this was a non-advised sale and the couple hadnt taken any independent 
financial advice. 
Our investigator said Mr and Mrs G wouldve been sent the policy schedule and terms and 
conditions, which wouldve made clear the policy covered a fixed period  and wasnt whole 
of life. Our investigator was also satisfied these documents wouldve been sent to Mr and 
Mrs G  and if on reviewing them theyd felt the policy wasnt suitable, they couldve 
cancelled it. 
Mr and Mrs G disagreed and have asked for an Ombudsman to review their complaint.  
They said theyd signed the necessary documentation on the basis theyd wanted a whole of 
life policy  and fixed term to them meant termination of the policy on the death of the first 
insured. Mr and Mrs G maintained it shouldve been made clear to them on the proposal 
form that the policy would end in 2023. They also said the fact they hadnt obtained 
independent financial advice didnt have a bearing on the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr and Mrs G feel strongly about this complaint and this will come as 
a disappointment to them, so Ill explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I must make my decision 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to have 
happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
I dont know exactly what happened in 2003 when the policy was sold to Mr and Mrs G  or 
what conversations took place. Theyve told us they didnt require financial advice, and just 
wanted a simple policy, without investment or risk, that paid a lump sum on the death of the 
first partner. Not getting any financial advice was a choice Mr and Mrs G were entitled to 
make. But that does come with an element of risk  and means the onus was on Mr and 
Mrs G to make sure the policy they were getting met their specific requirements. 
With that in mind, my focus is on whether Countrywide misled Mr and Mrs G into thinking 
they were applying for a whole of life policy. The only documentation Ive seen is the 
proposal form Mr and Mrs G completed and signed, and the terms and conditions that 
wouldve been sent to them. Both these documents say the policy had a fixed term. With the 
terms and conditions saying the term of the policy is specified in the policy schedule.
Mr and Mrs G say that because they thought they were applying for a whole of life policy, 
they took fixed term to mean the policy would end in the event one of them died. And didnt 
question the information on the proposal form before signing it. But that isnt what fixed term 
means  and I believe this shouldve alerted Mr and Mrs G to check what the policy terms 
were before proceeding. And so, I dont think the proposal form misled Mr and Mrs G into 
thinking they were applying for a whole of life policy. 
Whilst the information on the proposal form didnt alert Mr and Mrs G to the fact this wasnt a 
whole of life policy, the policy terms and conditions and the policy schedule wouldve 
reinforced that, with the policy schedule showing the policy ended in 2023. And on receipt of 
these documents, Mr and Mrs G had a chance to review and question them if theyd so 
wished. 
Mr and Mrs G have said it shouldve been clearer on the proposal form that the policy ended 
in 2023. I understand their point, but the proposal form is designed to set out what type of 
policy they were applying for. As Ive said above, I dont think the proposal form was 
misleading, and the specific terms of the policy would then be outlined in the policy schedule 
and the terms and conditions  which I have no doubt wouldve been sent to Mr and Mrs G 
to be checked. At which point they couldve cancelled the policy if they werent happy with 
the terms. 
Taking everything into account, I can understand how Mr and Mrs G are very clear in their 
minds that they wanted, and had applied for, a whole of life policy. But I think the 
documentation provided by Countrywide is clear that the policy was for a fixed term. And so, 
I dont believe Countrywide mis-sold Mr and Mrs G a fixed term policy and wont be asking it 
to take any action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman