DRN-1908356
 
The complaint
Mr U complains about how Starling Bank Limited has recorded account transactions and 
about how it dealt with his complaint.
What happened
Mr U complained to Starling about how his account balance was reflected and that there 
appeared to be money missing from his account. He says a transaction was reversed and 
couldn't see if money had been transferred to his savings goal. Mr U says the events  
caused him stress and would like compensation. He also says Starling didn't deal with his 
complaint appropriately and says its compensation of £10 is insufficient. He would like 
Starling to make sure this doesn't happen again and would like it to keep an accurate record 
of the account position.
Starling says its given Mr U an explanation about what's taken place but accepts it didn't 
understand Mr U's query and has apologised and paid £10 compensation.
Mr U brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The investigator 
thought overall Starling had accepted it didn't understand Mr U's complaint and had 
mentioned a savings account when there wasn't one. And could have explained the actual 
feature Mr U did have when he spoke to it. The investigator recommended Starling increase 
its compensation offer to £75 which Mr U has accepted.
Starling doesn't accept that view and in summary says it has acted in line with the account 
terms and conditions and hasn't made a mistake about how it dealt with the actual 
transaction.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that Starling should increase its compensation offer but I accept it is not our role 
to tell it how it operates its accounts or how information is recorded.
I'm satisfied that Starling accepts that it didn't understand Mr U's query when he first made 
contact with it. I can see that it has apologised and paid £10 compensation. But I think that 
Mr U spent some time trying to find out the answer to his query and was caused some 
inconvenience by what took place. I don't think £10 compensation is fair and reasonable and 
I think Starling should increase that amount to £75 which I think fairly reflects what's taken 
place here and the impact on Mr U.
We are not the regulator of banks and building societies and so it's not our role to tell 
Starling how it records information about this issue. And I make clear that whilst I think 
Starling could have dealt with Mr U's query more appropriately, I have not seen any 
evidence that it made a mistake about the round up feature on his account. I also make clear that our role is not that of an auditor, and so we can't check the accuracy of a feature or 
check if a balance is correct in these circumstances.
Overall I'm satisfied that Starling's compensation offer doesn't go far enough for that part of 
the complaint. I'm also satisfied that Starling has now fairly explained to Mr U how its 
account feature works. I don't think it necessary to repeat the details of the round up feature 
or what each party says about it for the reasons I have explained.  
Putting things right
I intend to order Starling to pay Mr U a further £65 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I order Starling Bank Limited to pay Mr U a further £65 
compensation making a total of £75. Mr U's acceptance of that offer would be in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman