DRN-3232202
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC delayed when handling his claim about an 
unsuccessful cash machine withdrawal. He says the bank left him in a difficult financial 
situation.
What happened
On 17 September 2021, Mr A tried to withdraw £400 cash using another banks cash 
machine. The cash machine had a fault. The funds did not dispense but Mr As account 
balance was debited. 
Mr A immediately contacted Barclays and explained the problem. Mr A was also in contact 
with the other bank involved. It told him that the claim from Barclays was received on 
22 September 2021 and the funds returned on the same day. 
As Mr A had not received the funds back from Barclays, he contacted the bank to chase 
things up and ultimately raised a complaint. On 23 September 2021, Barclays issued its final 
response. It said no bank error had been made as it was still within the 12 working days it 
could take to investigate the claim. 
Unhappy with the banks position, Mr A referred his complaint to this service. Mr A explained 
the money was for his rent. Hes told us that he paid £1,500 in cash directly to his landlord 
on the 17th of each month but not having the money to pay caused problems with both his 
co-tenant and the landlord. Mr A paid the rent due by bank transfer on 30 September 2021. 
He explains that his landlord charged £50 for the late payment. Barclays credited the funds 
back into Mr As account on 1 October 2021. 
Our Investigator looked into the matter but ultimately didnt think Barclays had done anything 
wrong. She accepted the situation had caused Mr A stress and inconvenience he didnt 
need. But she thought Mr A had enough surplus funds in his account at the time of the 
withdrawal to pay the rent when due. She didnt think she could fairly ask Barclays to pay 
compensation when it had processed the refund within its timescales. 
Mr A didnt agree with this outcome. He said his bank statement shouldnt be the yard stick 
used to measure if hed been left in a difficult financial situation. He pointed out that hed got 
other bills and commitments to pay and that hed taken an advance on his salary on 
6 September 2021 to buy school uniform and things his son needed. He maintained that 
Barclays must be at fault, highlighting the confirmation hed received from the other bank 
showing the funds were returned on 22 September 2021. 
As no agreement could be reached, he asked for an Ombudsman to consider his complaint 
afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not think it would be fair to require Barclays to pay compensation to 
Mr A in these circumstances. I know this news will be disappointing to Mr A, so I shall 
explain why. 
I can understand this was a frustrating and worrying time for Mr A. I accept he experienced 
friction and embarrassment with his co-tenant and landlord as a result of a situation that 
happened through no fault of his own. But I cant say Barclays should have to pay 
compensation to Mr A because he experienced a problem with a cash machine withdrawal. 
I can only ask the bank to pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr A has 
experienced if I determine his underlying complaint about the financial service in his favour.
Mr A has complained that Barclays has delayed when handling his claim. Hes pointed out 
that the other bank returned the funds back over a week before Barclays credited them to his 
account. He says Barclays must be liable because it did not work promptly and thinks it has 
acted unprofessionally. But the claim was concluded within the timescale for resolution that 
Barclays had indicated at the start. My role isnt to tell Barclays what policies and procedures 
it should have. My role is to look at whether they have implemented those processes 
unfairly. I dont think Barclays did anything wrong on this occasion. It processed the claim 
within its timescales. 
I have thought about whether Barclays should have done more to prioritise things. Suddenly 
having to find an extra £400, even temporarily, would be a stressful situation for most people 
so I can appreciate money might have been tighter for Mr A whilst this unexpected situation 
was addressed. But Mr As statements show that after the withdrawal debited his account, 
he had just over £1,750 remaining. He consistently had a balance of around £1,400 in the 
account up until he ultimately paid the rent payment on 30 September 2021. Ive not seen 
any evidence that shows Mr A was unable to pay his other bills and commitments. Mr As 
statements show he was still using the account to make day to day cash machine 
withdrawals and retail transactions whilst waiting for the funds to be returned.  
Taking everything into account, I dont think Barclays treated Mr A unfairly in this case.  
I consider it provided him an appropriate level of service and assistance when handling his 
claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman