DRN-1717123
 
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC refused her loan application.
What happened
Mrs A says she asked Lloyds in 2017 to convert her overdraft into a loan which it refused. 
She says she continued to pay significant overdraft fees but in 2019 Lloyds offered a loan 
which she took. Mrs A says the loan ought to have been approved in 2017 and that would 
have avoided the overdraft charges. She also says her husband was seriously ill in 2017 and 
Lloyds actions has caused stress and what was a difficult time. Mrs A would like the charges 
she has paid refunded as well as future interest.
Lloyds upheld Mrs A's complaint in part and says the loan application was made in August 
2018. It says it ought to have done more to have helped Mrs A at that time and has refunded 
all overdraft charges from that date until the loan was approved in 2019. It has also paid 
£200 compensation and says it will not make a deduction for the interest Mrs A would have 
paid if a loan was approved in 2018.
Mrs A didn't accept that view and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator also thought 
the loan application was in 2018 and not 2017 and agreed that Lloyds ought to have done 
more to have helped Mrs A in 2018. But thought Lloyds had acted fairly by refunding the 
charges and paying a fair and reasonable amount of compensation.
Mrs A doesn't accept that view and says Lloyds was morally obliged to convert the overdraft 
into a loan and doesn't think the compensation is enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that Lloyds has dealt fairly with this complaint and I don't require it to do 
anything further. I realise Mrs A will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate, having 
listened to her telephone call to us, how strongly she feels about what took place.
I have looked at Lloyds records and I'm satisfied that Mrs A made the loan application in 
August 2018 and not 2017. I appreciate Mrs A says the application was made in 2017 but I 
have not seen any evidence that an earlier application was made. I'm satisfied that it's up to 
Lloyds to decide when exercising its commercial judgement to whom it lends when 
assessing affordability and other factors. But there is no dispute that Lloyds ought to have 
done more to have helped Mrs A when she approached it for help with the overdraft 
charges.
I'm satisfied that Lloyds has fairly apologised for how it treated Mrs A at that time and has 
paid a fair and reasonable level of compensation. I think that award fairly reflects the level of 
Lloyds mistake and the impact it had upon Mrs A. I'm also satisfied that Lloyds has acted fairly by refunding all the account charges of about £2,418 from the time of the loan 
application in 2018 to the date of the approved loan in 2019. I think that means Mrs A has 
not suffered any financial loss and is fair and reasonable. I also think Lloyds has acted fairly 
by not making a deduction for any interest Mrs A would have paid if a loan had been 
approved in 2018.
Overall I'm satisfied that Lloyds has put Mrs A back in the position she would have been in if 
a loan had been approved in 2018 and has fairly paid compensation and not made a 
deduction for interest. I appreciate Mrs A says the effect of Lloyds actions means that she 
will be paying for a loan for a longer time period. I agree with Mrs A, but of course she could 
use the repayment from Lloyds to reduce her loan which I think would put her in a more 
favourable position as the overdraft interest rate was higher than the loan interest.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman