DRN-3476260
The complaint
Mr P has complained that NewDay Ltd trading as Aquacard wont refund him for transactions 
made on his credit card to a firm that provides derivatives trading recommendations. 
What happened
Mr P says he was offered a subscription to a derivatives trading recommendation service in 
March 2018 from a firm Ill call S. He says S claimed it had a win rate of around 80% and 
that it gave a 90-day satisfaction guarantee. Mr P says the subscription fee was around 
$2,000 USD for 18 months. Mr P says he made a mistake by clicking on an enrolment button 
on the website. 
Mr P says S attempted to take payment but as Mr P only had a £1,000 limit, the transaction 
didnt go through. Mr P says he made a part payment for the subscription and that S asked 
him to pay the balance of the fees by other means. S took two payments on 23 March 2018, 
one for £426.25 and another for £106.54.
S provided options recommendations to Mr P. And Mr P says between 23 March 2018 and 
6 April he placed 11 options trades and that he made losses on 10 of them. So his win rate 
was around 9%. 
Mr P says he tried to cancel his subscription in April 2018, but S wouldnt return his money. 
Mr P says S misrepresented the service and committed fraud. 
In June 2019 Mr P contacted NewDay to ask it to help him get a refund. In this contact he 
acknowledges subscribing to the service and paying the equivalent of $750 USD to S. But 
he highlighted his losses and again said hed been lied to.
NewDay looked into things but didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said investments and trades 
arent covered under the guarantee which is outlined in the terms and conditions and within 
the card scheme operators policies. It also said Mr Ps dispute was raised out of time for the 
card scheme operators chargeback rules.
As things couldnt be resolved, Mr P brought his complaint to our service. Ultimately, he 
thinks S exaggerated the success rate for their service. 
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think 
NewDay acted unfairly by not raising the chargeback because it had been brought out of 
time. And, even if it had been brought in time, she wasnt persuaded it wouldve had a 
reasonable prospect of success. 
Our investigator did, however, think that NewDay should have considered a claim from Mr P 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). But she didnt think there was 
enough evidence to determine thered been a breach of contract or misrepresentation. So 
she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr P didnt agree. He thought hed provided enough evidence of a misrepresentation. So the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im considering whether NewDay has acted fairly and reasonably in the way it handled 
Mr Ps request for getting his money back. In situations like this, the finance provider can 
consider raising a chargeback or assessing a claim under section 75. 
Ive first thought about its decision to not raise a chargeback. The process is subject to rules 
made by the relevant card schemes. For the card scheme that is relevant in this case, the 
rules say there is a limited window of time in which to raise a chargeback. Generally, this is 
120 days from the date of the transaction or, if a service was meant to be provided by a 
specific date in the future, 120 days from that date. As Mr P contacted NewDay well after 
this (over a year later), I dont find it acted unreasonably by not raising a chargeback, 
because I dont think it had a reasonable prospect of success. 
However, given the transaction was carried out on a credit card, I agree with our investigator 
that NewDay ought to have considered assessing a claim under section 75. It looks like the 
necessary relationship exists and the value of the transactions seem to fall within the 
relevant monetary limits for a valid claim to be considered under section 75.  
Unfortunately, I have very limited information about what happened beyond what Mr P has 
told us, and emails hes supplied from S. Mr P has supplied an email from S sent to him on 
6 March 2018 with details about the program, which he says contains misrepresentations. 
This email is in relation to two subscription options  lifetime or 24-month access. Im mindful 
Mr P told NewDay he entered into a different sort of arrangement. He also says S didnt 
send him details of the subscription he entered into. Mr P also tells us the misrepresentation 
from S happened on 20 March 2018, but he hasnt provided evidence to corroborate that. So 
the evidence of when the misrepresentation occurred is slightly conflicting. 
I asked for Mr P further evidence to clarify things. I think the main thrust of what he is saying 
is that S misrepresented the win rate to him. And I can understand why hes unhappy if he 
was expecting a much higher win rate than what he achieved. Ive reviewed the evidence we 
have been provided (even though its not totally clear the email from March 2018 is relevant 
to the subscription Mr P entered into). I can see the email says the program delivers 100 
money doubling trades or you get your money back. But the email is in relation to a 24-
month service or lifetime subscription. The guarantee on the email refers to a 24-month 
performance guarantee. Mr P cancelled his subscription within a few weeks, so I dont see 
how I can say theres been a misrepresentation based on the statement above. 
Moreover, I note the email does provide some performance statistics around the win rates. 
But I cant see that these win rates are guaranteed. Its not clear Mr P was told hed achieve 
a certain win rate within the few weeks he subscribed. Ive also not been provided evidence 
to show the performance rates were false. And when opening one of the links in the email 
the terms say S cant guarantee subscribers will mirror the exact performance stated on 
promotions. So while I can understand why Mr P was disappointed, based on the evidence 
hes been able to provide, I dont think theres sufficient grounds for me to say NewDay has 
acted unfairly by not reimbursing Mr P off the back of him being misrepresented. I have to 
base my decision based on the evidence submitted by the parties. Ive also thought about what Mr P said about not authorising S to take the payments after he 
said the initial transaction was refused because it was for a larger amount than his credit 
limit. But Im mindful that when he contacted NewDay to raise his dispute back in June 2019 
he said he subscribed to the service and paid the merchant. He also then appears to have 
used the subscription. So I dont think I can safely conclude he didnt authorise the 
transactions totalling $750 USD. 
Therefore, based on what Ive seen, while I know itll disappoint Mr P, I dont think I can 
conclude he didnt authorise the transaction. I also dont find NewDay acted unreasonably in 
not raising a chargeback, and I dont find there are proper grounds to say a section 75 claim 
should have succeeded, based on the limited evidence thats been supplied. 
For completeness sake I also note Mr P has mentioned NewDay may have unfairly reduced 
his credit limit when he raised a complaint. If he wants to pursue a complaint about this, he 
will need to allow NewDay to respond to this complaint in the first instance. And if hes 
unhappy with its response, it may be something our service is able to consider. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman