DRN-3972690
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as T has complained that QBE UK Limited unfairly declined to
pay for more than one business interruption insurance claim after it was impacted by Covid-
19.
Mr N, a director of T, has brought the complaint on Ts behalf through a representative. For 
ease of reading, I will refer to T throughout. 
What happened
T held business interruption insurance with QBE. Policy one ran from 21 April 2019 until 20
April 2020. Policy two ran from 21 April 2020 until 20 April 2021. T said it had been
required to close due to Government restrictions as a result of Covid-19 and the
Governments response to the pandemic. T made claims for losses it experienced as a result 
of that closure for the periods 23 March 2020 to 23 June 2020 under policy one, 5 November 
2020 to 3 January 2021 under policy two and 4 January 2021 to 4 April 2021 under policy 
two.
QBE paid Ts claim for the claim period from 23 March 2020 to 23 June 2020 under the
extension for disease in policy one. It refused the claims under policy two.
T complained to QBE as it thought its first claim should have been paid under the extension
for denial of access instead of the extension for disease. It also thought QBE should pay its 
two further claims as it had experienced further losses due to being required to close by the 
Government due to restrictions imposed as a result of Covid-19.
QBE said that Covid-19 had caused one indivisible loss and as it had paid Ts claim for the
period 23 March to 22 June 2020, no further indemnity was available for losses caused by
Covid-19. QBE said that Ts claim would not be covered under the extension for denial of
access because the clause required damage to property and Covid-19 had not damaged
property.
Unhappy with QBEs response, T brought its complaint to our service. It said that as the
extension for disease describes an infectious disease as damage, this should also apply to
the extension for denial of access. It said that the principle of contra proferentem should
apply.
QBE said that the Supreme Court in FCA v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd and others [2021]
UKSC 1 (the FCA test case) found that whilst the peril is divisible, its effects and the loss
that results from the peril are indivisible. It said it is therefore not possible to point to any
individual case of Covid-19 and link this to a particular loss or element of loss. QBE said that
the disease extension is not triggered by the closure of the premises or any particular
Government action but covers all business interruption loss caused by cases of disease
within the radius. It said that, for the purpose of this extension, there is no relevant distinction
to be drawn between the different phases of the pandemic and UK Government's response.
QBE said that, as it couldnt separate out the loss between individual cases of Covid-19,
there is one indivisible loss which started with the first case within radius and is still running,
subject to the maximum indemnity period.
Our investigator looked into Ts complaint and recommended it be upheld. While she thought
QBE had acted reasonably in refusing to pay Ts claim under the extension for denial of
access, she thought the policy could respond to multiple claims for different manifestations
of Covid-19. Therefore, she recommended QBE consider Ts second and third claims on this
basis.
T accepted our investigators recommendation, but QBE didnt agree and provided a detailed
response. I have summarised the points it made points below:
It agreed that Covid-19 did not cause damage and therefore there is no cover for Ts
            claim under the extension for denial of access in these circumstances. Therefore, the
            comments below are in relation to the extension for disease.
The second and third claims would fall under policy two which commenced on 21
            April 2020.
The disease extension provides cover for business interruption or interference as a
            result of Covid-19 manifesting itself within a 25 mile radius of the premises. The
            extension is not contingent on any restrictions by the Government or other agency so
            while the restrictions are the means by which the insured peril has caused the loss
            they are not part of the insured peril.
The question of whether T is able to make multiple claims is not answered by how
            many times they were restricted. Separate claims can only be made where there are
            separate insured losses caused by separate incidents of the insured peril.
T has said that it continued to be impacted by Covid-19 so while the level of impact
            may have fluctuated, the business did not cease to be affected by Covid-19 in
            between lockdowns.
While each case of Covid-19 is itself a cause of the loss and a separate occurrence
            of the insured peril the loss cant be allocated to specific cases of the disease within
            or outside the radius. This is supported by the Supreme Court who said: Although
            we do not think that it was strictly accurate for the court below to describe all the
            cases of COVID19 in the country as indivisible, what plainly is indivisible is the effect
            of such cases, via the measures taken by the UK Government, on any insured
            business. As the loss is indivisible, the question whether it was caused by an insured
            peril is an all or nothing one.
Our investigators approach would mean that each separate case of Covid-19 would
            trigger a new indemnity period. This is absurd and unworkable. The other outcome
            might be that there is a new claim each time the Government reviewed and renewed
            the lockdown, but our service has dismissed this approach in a decision on another
            complaint. This approach would also be directly contrary to the approach to
            causation taken by the Supreme Court. As T has had the benefit under the policy on
            the basis that the causative effects of Covid-19 cannot be separated, it would be
            irrational to introduce separability when applying the maximum indemnity period.
The investigators decision might have been influenced by the short indemnity period
            of three months. However, the length of the indemnity period should have no bearing
            on whether multiple claims can be made. A short indemnity period is designed to limit
            an insurers exposure to insured perils that can have long term effects on a business,
            as might be the case with a disease.
Its position is supported by legal advice which it has received.
Where policyholders had a longer maximum indemnity period and their policy lapsed
            during the first lockdown QBE has allowed the full indemnity period. To uphold Ts
            case would detriment those policyholders as it would need to curtail cover for those
            policyholders at the point of the Governments review. QBE took the approach that
            such an approach was not in line with the Supreme Court judgment.            
QBE asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
Before I reached a decision our investigator asked QBE if the outcome of Stonegate Pub
Company Ltd v MS Amlin Corporate Member Ltd and others [2022] EWHC 2548 (Comm)
(Stonegate), Greggs PLC v Zurich Insurance PLC [2022] EWHC 2545 (Comm) (Greggs) and
Various Eateries Trading Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC [2002] EWHC 2549 (Comm) (VE)
changed its position on Ts case. QBE said that its position had not changed.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 31 January 2023. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Denial of access
I have started by considering whether Ts claim should have been met under the extension
for denial of access. Having done so, I dont think it should. Ill explain why.
The wording of this clause in both the 2019 policy and 2020 policy appears to be the same.
It says:
We shall indemnify you in respect of interruption of or interference with the
business caused by damage, to property in the vicinity of the premises which
shall prevent or hinder the use of the premises or access thereto whether the
premises or your property therein shall be damaged or not
In respect of business interruption the policy defines damage as:
a) loss of destruction of or damage caused by an insured peril as set in the
Coverage- insured perils clauses of Section A Contents and Section C -
Buildings
b) glass breakage;
Therefore, for this to provide cover, the interruption to Ts business would need to be as a
result of loss of, destruction of or damage to property in the vicinity of its premises. I think
that, for damage to have occurred, there would need to be a physical change or altered state
to property in the vicinity of Ts premises, which made it less valuable. Alternatively, its
possible damage could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was required to
remove the cause of potential damage. However, I havent seen anything to indicate that the
interruption to Ts business was as a result of damage to property in its vicinity.
I recognise that the word damage is also used when setting out the indemnity period for the
disease clause but in that context it wouldnt make sense if damage didnt refer to the
insured peril. However, in this clause I think the policy definition makes linguistic sense as
the clause requires damage to property in order to provide cover.
Therefore, I think QBE acted reasonably in saying there was no cover under this section of
the policy.
I have therefore, gone on to consider whether QBE has acted fairly in deciding that T can
only make one claim for losses caused by Covid-19.
Can the policy respond to the second and third claims made by T?As QBE has pointed out, Ts policy lapsed on 20 April 2020. Therefore, I think that the
second and third claims would need to be considered under the policy which incepted on
21 April 2020.
I have started by considering whether the policy allows T to recover two or more separate
periods of loss from two or more separate manifestations of the notifiable disease, both
occurring in the policy period.
The automatic reinstatement of sum insured clause in Ts policy says that:
In the event of a loss the sum insured hereby shall not be reduced by the
amount of such loss provided that you shall:
a) pay the appropriate extra premium on the amount of loss from the date thereof
to the date of expiry of the period of insurance;
b) if the loss results from theft give effect to any additional protective devices
which we may require for the further security of the property insured.
The Sum Insured for loss of gross revenue is £250,000, with an indemnity period of 12
months. I do not think the reinstatement clause can be read as saying that, if there is an
indemnity period of less than a year, the indemnity period can only be triggered once. This is
because there is no reference to the indemnity period in the clause and the clause appears
to explain how the sum insured works if there is more than one claim. Also, I dont think its
likely that if a policyholder suffered an interruption to its business for a short time due to one
disease, it would then not be able to make a separate claim for another period of loss due to
an unrelated disease at a different time within the policy period.
So I think the policy would allow for two (or more) claims to be made under the same clause
if there were two (or more) separate causes for two (or more) separate periods of loss.
Therefore, given QBE has already settled Ts claim for its period of loss from March
2020, I have gone on to consider whether Ts subsequent claims should be considered by
QBE.
The extension for disease says:
We shall indemnify you in respect of interruption of or interference with the
business as insured by this section caused by:
a) any human infectious or human contagious disease (excluding Acquired
Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or an AIDS related condition) an outbreak
of which the local authority has stipulated shall be notified to them manifested by
any person whilst in the premises or within a twenty five (25) mile radius of it;
b) actual or alleged murder, suicide or sexual assault in the premises;
c) bodily injury or illness sustained by any person arising from or traceable to
foreign or injurious matter in food or drink provided in the premises;
d) vermin or pests in the premises;
e) the closing of the whole or part of the premises by order of a competent public
authority consequent upon defect in the drains or other sanitary arrangements at
the premises.
The insurance by this clause shall only apply for the period beginning with the
occurrence of the loss and ending not later than three (3) months thereafter
during which the results of the business shall be affected in consequence of the
damage.QBE hasnt pointed to any new terms within the policy which incepted in April 2020 which
would exclude Ts claim for business interruption due to Covid-19. Therefore, as set out
above, for the policy to provide cover, the interruption or interference to Ts business needs
to result from any human infectious or contagious disease manifested by any person at Ts
premises or within a 25 mile radius of them. Its not in dispute that Covid-19 is a human
infectious or contagious disease.
It's also not in dispute that Covid-19 manifested within a 25 mile radius of Ts premises in
March 2020 which caused T a loss. For this reason, QBE paid for the losses T incurred for
three months from the date it closed.
The relevant question in this complaint is whether the interruption or interference to Ts
business in November 2020 to January 2021 and from January 2021 to April 2021 was as a
result of a case of Covid-19 which manifested in March 2020, which continued to affect the
results of Ts business, or a result of a separate a case of Covid-19 which manifested in any
person within a 25 mile radius of Ts premises. Having considered this, I think the
interruption or interference with Ts business in the second and third claims were caused by
different cases of Covid-19 to those which caused the first period of claim.
I say that because the claims T made were for losses which arose principally as a result of
the UK Government restrictions in response to Covid-19 in March 2020, November 2020 and
January 2021. As QBE has said, the restrictions imposed by the UK Government werent
part of the insured peril. However, the cases of Covid-19 led to restrictions which caused Ts
loss.
QBE has submitted that Ts business suffered loss throughout the pandemic, including
between the periods of heightened Government restrictions. It has said that separate claims
can only be made where there are separate insured losses caused by separate incidents of
the insured peril. However, while Ts loss might not have ceased throughout this prolonged
period, I think the impact on its business, both from the various Government restrictions and
from other effects, was due to different cases of the disease over time. Separate
manifestations of Covid-19 within a 25-mile radius of Ts premises (the insured peril) caused
the various Government restrictions and other effects, which together interrupted Ts
business. For example, once the restrictions which had been introduced in March 2020 were
eased, I dont think that the Government would have introduced new restrictions if it wasnt
for a new threat caused by new cases of Covid-19.
In reaching a decision, amongst other things I have to consider relevant law. I have taken
account of the Supreme Court judgment in the FCA test case, but I dont think the findings of
the Supreme Court in the test case mean that T cant claim for more than one case of Covid-
19 if that is a separate insured peril which results in a separate period of loss. While it might
be impossible to separate the cases of Covid-19 which led to the restrictions in March 2020,
I believe that those cases can be separated from the cases which contributed to the UK
Governments decision to introduce further restrictions in November 2020 and January 2021.
I dont believe that this approach is contrary to the position taken by another ombudsman in
the complaint QBE has referred to because in that case the ombudsman was considering
the review of restrictions within the first lockdown and not the decisions which led to later
lockdowns.
I think the following judgments are helpful when considering this complaint: Stonegate
Pub Company Ltd v MS Amlin Corporate Member Ltd and others [2022] EWHC 2548
(Comm) (Stonegate), Greggs PLC v Zurich Insurance PLC [2022] EWHC 2545
(Comm) (Greggs) and Various Eateries Trading Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC [2002]
EWHC 2549 (Comm) (VE). Thats because one of the issues considered by the courtwas whether losses sustained beyond the expiry date of the policy were caused by
occurrences of Covid-19 when the policy was in force. In reaching its conclusions, the
court also took the outcome of the FCA test case into account.
In Stonegate, the court said (at paragraph 209):
Those responses were not equally caused by the cases before the end of the
Period of Insurance, but rather were predominantly caused by more recent
cases, and the threat of future cases, at the time of the adoption of the measure
in question.
In VE, at paragraph 48, the court summarised its findings from Stonegate to reject VEs
argument that losses throughout the maximum indemnity period had been caused
concurrently and equally by all of the cases of Covid-19 which had occurred within the
relevant radius. The court said:
(1) the decisions in the FCA Test Case do not establish that all cases of Covid-
19, whenever occurring, were equal concurrent causes of the governmental
actions and public response at any given time; (2) the fact that the cases of the
disease occurred in Period of Insurance may have caused the later cases of the
disease (because cases make cases) is not sufficient to say that the cases of
the disease in the Period of Insurance were the proximate cause of governmental
measures and public response after the Period of Insurance; and (3) the death
blow or grip of the peril principle is inapplicable.
In Greggs, the Court said at paragraph 39:
it appears highly doubtful that, on any view, there can be said to have been
only one period of interruption or interference. It seems certain that the degree of
interruption or interference with Greggs business changed over time between the
first cases of Covid-19 and the end of the Indemnity Period
I believe that the judgments referred to above support my view that Ts losses arising from
the Governments actions in November 2020 and January 2021 werent caused by the
manifestations of Covid-19 in March 2020 which caused its earlier losses.
However, for completeness, even if Im wrong and they dont support my decision, I still think
my decision provides a fair and reasonable outcome in all of the circumstances. This is
because I think its fair and reasonable to conclude that the Governments restrictions from
November 2020 and January 2021 were made in response to a new threat, i.e. on the basis
of new cases of Covid-19.
For the same reasons as I dont think the cases of Covid-19 which manifested within a 25 
mile radius of Ts premises in March 2020 were the same cause of the restrictions in 
November 2020. When the UK Government announced restrictions on 4 January 2021 they 
said, in fighting the old variant of the virus, our collective efforts were working and would 
have continued to work. But we now have a new variant of the virusin England, we must
therefore go into a national lockdown which is tough enough to contain this variant.. I
believe that this demonstrates that the cases of Covid-19 which manifested in a person and
contributed to the interruption or interference to Ts business in January 2021 can be
separated from those cases which contributed to the restrictions in November 2020 and
therefore the policy can respond to these as separate claims.
I also dont think those cases which led to the November 2020 restrictions were the same
cases which led to the restrictions which were imposed in January 2021.QBE has referred to having received legal advice on this point, however, Ive not had sight of
the advice so I cant comment on that further. As Ive set out above, I believe the current
legal position supports my view that Ts policy can respond to claims for the interruption to its
business in November 2020 and January 2021.
QBE has also referred to the length of the indemnity period as being a potential factor in our
investigator reaching the outcome she did. I recognise QBEs point that an insurer chooses
an indemnity period to reflect the level of exposure it wants to take on but that doesnt
change my view that this policy can respond to more than one claim for an insured peril if
those claims are due to separate instances of that insured peril.
I have noted QBEs point about how it has treated its policies which have a 12 month
indemnity period. However, Im required to reach a decision on this complaint based on what
I consider to be fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. And I dont think it would
produce a fair and reasonable outcome for me to not uphold this complaint based on how
QBE has treated other policyholders when I believe that this policy can respond to Ts claims
from November 2020 and January 2021.
Therefore, Ive then gone on to consider whether there were cases of Covid-19 which
manifested within a 25 mile radius of Ts premises which resulted in the interruption or
interference with its business.
The UK Government announced the November lockdown on 31 October 2020. The
Financial Conduct Authority Covid-19 calculator indicates that on 31 October 2020
there were more than 1,000 cases of Covid-19 within a 25 mile radius of Ts premises. Even
with this figure being adjusted to represent the number of cases which would be considered
to have manifested I consider that this sufficiently demonstrates that there were cases of
Covid-19 which had manifested within a 25 mile radius of Ts premises which led to the
interruption or interference with Ts business.
On 4 January 2021 the UK Government announced a further lockdown to start on 5
January 2021. On 4 January 2021 the FCA covid-19 calculator indicated that there were
over 20,000 reported cases within a 25 mile radius. For the reasons set out above, I
consider that this sufficiently demonstrates that there were cases of Covid-19 which had
manifested within a 25 mile radius of Ts premises which led to the interruption or
interference with Ts business.
I think it would be fair and reasonable for QBE to have the opportunity to assess the
claim to determine if T has shown that it has experienced a loss which is covered by
the policy. When assessing the claim QBE should do so on the basis that the policy
can respond to a second claim from 5 November 2020 and a third claim from 4 January
2021 as there were new cases of Covid-19 which manifested in any person within a 25
mile radius.
For clarity, I would like to point out that there was a formatting error in my provisional 
decision where a line from within the paragraph was moved to a separate line below the first 
paragraph. The paragraphs which read as:
For the same reasons as I dont think the cases of Covid-19 which manifested within a 25 
mile radius of Ts premises in March 2020 were the same cause of the restrictions in 
November 2020. When the UK Government announced restrictions on 4 January 2021 they 
said, in fighting the old variant of the virus, our collective efforts were working and would 
have continued to work. But we now have a new variant of the virusin England, we must 
therefore go into a national lockdown which is tough enough to contain this variant.. I believe that this demonstrates that the cases of Covid-19 which manifested in a person and
contributed to the interruption or interference to Ts business in January 2021 can be 
separated from those cases which contributed to the restrictions in November 2020 and 
therefore the policy can respond to these as separate claims.
I also dont think those cases which led to the November 2020 restrictions were the same 
cases which led to the restrictions which were imposed in January 2021.
Should have read as:
For the same reasons as I dont think the cases of Covid-19 which manifested within a 25 
mile radius of Ts premises in March 2020 were the same cause of the restrictions in 
November 2020 I also dont think those cases which led to the November 2020 restrictions 
were the same cases which led to the restrictions which were imposed in January 2021.
When the UK Government announced restrictions on 4 January 2021 they said, in 
fighting the old variant of the virus, our collective efforts were working and would have 
continued to work. But we now have a new variant of the virusin England, we must 
therefore go into a national lockdown which is tough enough to contain this variant.. I 
believe that this demonstrates that the cases of Covid-19 which manifested in a person and 
contributed to the interruption or interference to Ts business in January 2021 can be 
separated from those cases which contributed to the restrictions in November 2020 and 
therefore the policy can respond to these as separate claims.
T accepted my provisional decision. QBE said it didnt have any further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive received no further comments from T or QBE to change my mind on this outcome of 
this complaint, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. It remains that I think 
the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for QBE to reassess Ts claims as set 
out below. 
Putting things right
To put things right, QBE should reassess Ts claims for losses from 5 November 2020 and 4 
January 2021 on the basis that the policy provides cover in the way set out within my 
decision  i.e. that the policy responds to a second claim from 5 November 2020 and a third 
claim from 4 January 2021 as there were new cases of Covid-19 which manifested within a 
25 mile radius of its premises.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint require QBE UK Limited to reassess Ts claims for losses from 5 
November 2020 and 4 January 2021 on the basis that the policy provides cover in the way 
set out within my decision  i.e. that the policy responds to a second claim from 5 November 
2020 and a third claim from 4 January 2021 as there were new cases of Covid-19 which 
manifested within a 25 mile radius of its premises. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman