DRN-1471708
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W say they were mis-sold a regular premium mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy by Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS).  
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out a joint mortgage with BOS in 2003. At the same time they took out a 
PPI policy to protect their repayments if they lost their jobs or were unable to work due to 
accident or sickness. The benefit was split so that in the event of a successful claim, Mr W 
wouldve received 80% of the monthly benefit amount and Mrs W wouldve received 20%. 
This would have been paid for up to 24 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld because she didnt think 
there was enough information to show that the policy wasnt presented as optional and 
thought that the policy provided a suitable benefit to Mr and Mrs W. 
Mr and Mrs W disagreed. They say that they werent given any information on the policy and 
didnt know they had it.
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
The sale took place over 15 years ago so unsurprisingly there is very little 
information available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis of what 
information I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
BOS needed to make it clear to Mr and Mrs W that they had a choice in taking the policy. Mr 
and Mrs W havent provided any real specific details about the sale which is understandable 
considering the amount of time that has passed. And BOS havent given us any of the 
documents from the time of the sale. So I dont know exactly what was discussed about PPI 
or how it was presented.
I can see from BOSs internal records that information was captured by BOS about Mr and 
Mrs Ws eligibility for PPI cover. And because the benefit split wasnt equal - at 80% for Mr 
W and 20% for Mrs W - I think its likely PPI and Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances and needs 
were discussed. I also note that BOS has a record of Mrs W contacting it in 2004 to delete the PPI cover and 
increase other insurances. So although Mr and Mrs W might not remember this now, I think 
they understood they had PPI and from what I know about BOSs sales documentation and 
processes at the time, I think its likely that it wouldve made Mr and Mrs W aware that PPI 
was optional and that Mr and Mrs W had PPI because they freely chose to take it rather than 
anything else.
Ive not seen enough to say that they werent given a choice or that they didnt agree to buy 
it.
BOS advised Mr and Mrs W to take the policy. What this means is that BOS not only had to 
provide information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr and Mrs W 
could make an informed choice about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it were to 
recommend PPI that the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ws needs and circumstances.
I dont know if BOS took all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs W for the following reasons:
From what we know of the policies sold they were eligible for the policy and it doesnt 
look like they wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the terms and 
conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a successful claim.
 
At the time of the sale Mr and Mrs W say they were entitled to a good level of sick 
pay and had savings they could use to make their mortgage repayment if they 
couldnt work. But the policy wouldve paid out on top of this and covered their 
mortgage payments for up 24 months per claim if they were too sick to work or lost 
their jobs.
 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs W in their 
circumstances especially considering they were taking on a significant and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications if they were unable to meet their 
repayments I think Mr and Mrs W wouldve been interested in protecting them. 
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr and Mrs W at 
the time. And if they decided they no longer wanted the policy they could cancel it. 
 
I also need to consider whether BOS gave Mr and Mrs W information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out. 
I dont know if BOS did give all the information as it shouldve. But for the same reasons that 
the policy was suitable and based on what Mr and Mrs W has told us about their 
circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve still taken out the PPI policy if theyd been 
given all the proper information.
So this means Mr and Mrs W arent worse off as a result of any wrong doing by BOS.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint against Bank of Scotland plc. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman