DRN-2349600
The complaint
Ms J has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to reject an escape of water
claim she made under her home insurance policy. Ms J said she had to chase AXA for
updates throughout the claim and send correspondence twice.
What happened
On 12 July 2019 Ms J reported to AXA that the ceiling beneath her bathroom had collapsed.
She said the ceiling had bowed and there was the sound of dripping water. The ceiling
collapsed while she was on the phone to an emergency plumber. She said she then
cancelled the plumber because the worst had happened and there seemed little point in a
plumber attending.
AXA instructed a surveyor to attend Ms Js home to assess the damage and whether it was
a claim covered under her policy.
The surveyor visited on 18 July 2019. He was unable to find the source of the leak. He
concluded that the cause of the damage must have been gradual rather than a one off
sudden escape of water. So as Ms Js policy excluded cover for gradual operating causes,
he recommended the claim be rejected.
On 29 August 2019 AXA discussed the surveyors findings with Ms J. Ms J complained to
AXA. She said there were no signs of a leak before the collapse of the ceiling. She was
unhappy that the surveyor couldnt find the source of the leak. And as he couldnt, she didnt
think it was fair for AXA to reject her claim. Ms J had bought the property 14 months before.
AXA asked Ms J to provide an estimate to repair the leak and a copy of the pre purchase
report. Ms J did this in September and again in October 2019.
On 3 January 2020 AXA replied to Ms Js complaint. It said its decision to decline the claim
was correct. However, it would instruct an in house surveyor to review the original
inspecting surveyors findings and let Ms J know the outcome.
Ms J didnt hear from AXA and so she chased it for an update in March 2020. AXA said its
decision to reject her claim was the same following its referral to a surveyor for a second
opinion. It sent Ms J a copy of a letter dated 14 February 2020 which advised her of the
outcome.
In March 2020 Ms J asked us to look at her complaint. She was unhappy with AXAs
decision and the lack of updates throughout the claim. She said shed had to chase it by
phone and email and resend documents to AXA.
Our investigator didnt think there was enough evidence to show AXAs decision to reject the
claim was reasonable from the reports provided by the inspecting surveyor and AXAs
surveyor. She felt their conclusions differed. The inspecting surveyor reported that staining
or bowing to the ceiling would have been evident for some time. But there were no photos to
support this. And there were no signs of mould or rot from the exposed area after the
collapse to suggest gradual damage over time.
AXAs surveyor concluded that the most likely source of the leak was from the wash basin
trap due to the pattern of moisture there. They added this would probably only leak when the
taps are running or just after the waste plug was removed, so may be easily missed. He felt
the inspecting surveyor didnt explore this possibility.
The investigator thought AXAs surveyors findings were more persuasive. The photos from
the inspecting surveyor showed there was water damage in close situ to the bathroom pipes
by the washbasin. But the photos didnt show a swelling in the floor that should have been
obvious to Ms J as he reported. The investigator didnt think this was enough for AXA to
reject Ms Js claim as there was insufficient evidence of a gradual cause. So she
recommended AXA deal with Ms Js claim for damage caused by an escape of water.
AXA didnt agree. It said it was for Ms J to prove there is a valid insured peril and to prove
the source of the leak. Without this, the claim might be excluded for other reasons such as
overflows or poor sealant or grout. It said Ms J hasnt provided a plumbers report.
Our investigator said that as AXA had rejected the claim for a gradual cause, it seemed to
therefore accept that there was a leak. She didnt think it reasonable for AXA to look to rely
on another exclusion to reject the claim.
AXA said its position remains that as there is no identifiable source of the leak, there is
insufficient evidence of an insured event.
Ms J accepted the investigators view. As AXA didnt agree, the case was passed to me to
decide.
Ms J provided photos of the bowed ceiling just before its collapse. These were very
helpful. She also provided a copy of emails she sent to AXA chasing for updates. She said 
she also made several calls, but she doesnt have proof of them.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 October 2020. I thought AXAs decision not to meet the 
claim was reasonable. But I thought AXA had caused undue delay and recommended it pay 
Ms J £300 compensation. 
Ms J hasnt replied to my provisional decision. AXA has accepted my recommendation. So 
the case has been passed back to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent received any new information, my final decision remains along the same lines 
as my provisional decision. 
AXAs policy  like most  says a customer should keep their home in a good state of repair.
AXA has a very common term which excludes cover for damage caused by gradual causes.
This is the reason AXA gave Ms J for declining her claim. It believes the damage she
claimed for was caused gradually and not by a one off event covered under the policy.
Ms Js policy with AXA includes Trace and Access cover for Escape of Water claims. The
policy says:
Escaping Water.
Water leaking from or freezing in any fixed domestic water or drainage installation,heating installation, washing machine, dishwasher, water bed, fish tank, refrigerator
or deep-freeze cabinet. We will also reimburse costs you have to pay to find where
the water is leaking from, including the cost of repairs to walls, floors or ceilings
(Trace and Access cover).
AXA excludes cover under Escape of Water for:
sinks, bidets, showers and baths, as a result of taps being left on (covered under
cause 22 Accidental Damage if operative); or
 caused by failure or lack of sealant and/or grout.
AXA says it would have explained Trace and Access cover to Ms J in the initial call, but it
hasnt provided proof of this. It isnt recorded in its notes. But in its notes on 29 August 2019,
it reads that AXA needs to identify the source of the leak.
The photos Ms J has provided are just before and after the ceiling collapsed. The ceiling just
before is heavily bowed. There is no evidence of staining on the ceiling. There is evidence of
water marks on the wall.
Ive also looked at the inspecting surveyors photos taken after the event which show the
exposed area of the ceiling and the walls. While I agree there are no visible signs of mould
or rot, the photos show the chipboard beneath the lino under the sink to be much darker,
suggesting a leak from this area. Photos of the ceiling directly underneath the sink also show
the chipboard from underneath to be much darker than the rest. Ms J said that she cancelled
the plumber once the ceiling had collapsed. She said this was because the damage had
been done and there was no water coming through.
The inspecting surveyor reported that the bathroom floor was lifted which would have been
noticeable to Ms J before the collapse. And there were bubbling marks on the plaster board
at the base and behind the wash basin sink and toilet. He said the floor underneath the lino
in this area was saturated.
The photos Ive seen show visible bubble marks on the plaster board behind the sink and
toilet from the floor upwards. I dont think this could have been caused by a one off event,
but more likely to be gradual over a period of time. I understand Ms J says she would have
assumed this was a decorating issue rather than signs of a possible leak. But this isnt a
reason for the claim to be met. I think there were visible signs of damage  other than rot or
mould  in the bathroom to show signs of gradual deterioration of materials above where the
ceiling collapsed.
The surveyor reported the following:
The bathroom has damage to the flooring and the boxing in behind the WC and
wash hand basin. The boxing has risen substantially, and the chipboard is very
swollen and is deteriorated. The flooring also rises and has a pronounced lip. The
hardboard below is distorted and the chipboard (as seen from below) has been
previously replaced. The surveyor undertook investigation with all surfaces, taps,
pipes and WC and the surveyor could find no evidence of any escape of water.
The damage is not consistent with the claim details, for the ceiling to collapse there
would have been prior damage (staining, bowing etc) or one very large sudden burst
with a large volume of water escaping at once but this has not happened, as when
the ceiling fell the customer advised there was no further water leaking. There is no
evidence of any source of escape of water.The estimate Ms J provided from a plumber gave the following description for repairs to the
bathroom floor and ceiling below and to identify the water leak:
To expose the boxing in in the bathroom and possibly remove the pedestal to
expose pipe work and identify the source of the leak and advise what is
required to repair the leak. (Obviously if the leak is a simple loosened nut on a
fitting it will be repaired within the estimated costing).
While the source of the leak hadnt yet been identified, the area the plumber intended to
investigate was in the same location to where the instructing surveyor identified signs of
water damage.
Key things AXAs in house surveyor said on reviewing the plumbers estimate and the
instructing surveyors report are :
The most likely source of any leak would seem to be the basin waste trap from the
pattern of the moisture. This would probably only leak whilst the taps were running or
just after the waste plug was removed so may be easily missed and I cant see that
(surveyors name) have addressed this possibility.
If there is no continuous leak but a small intermittent one then it would have taken a
significant period for the damage to develop to the extent seen at the time of
(surveyors name) visit. It is likely that the floor swelling would have been apparent to
anybody using the bathroom for much of this time and so the question arises as to
whether the policyholder has complied with the condition obliging them to act
promptly to mitigate damage. The hall ceiling may well have been salvageable if this
situation had been investigated when it was first noticeable. The hall ceiling is likely
to have developed staining long before it would have collapsed due to a gradual,
grey-water leak.
I also find it surprising that the plasterboard of the hall ceiling collapsed under its
own weight due to saturation when the damage to the underside of the bathroom
chipboard flooring is so slight.
While AXAs surveyor says the instructing surveyor didnt explore the possibility of a leak
from running taps, I dont think his view contradicts the original findings. Ms J cancelled the
plumber immediately after the ceiling collapsed as there were no signs of escaping water. I
think the assumption made by the surveyor that hed expect there to be a volume of water if
this was a sudden one off event was a reasonable one to make. Any leak caused by an
overflow of running taps is excluded from cover, but is an example of where Ms J would be
covered under Accidental Damage if shed bought this as an additional option. From the
information provided by the inspecting surveyor, AXAs surveyor was of the view that there
were signs of damage before the ceiling collapsed.
On 30 August 2019 Ms J told AXA a plumber had identified the source of the leak. So AXA
asked her to provide a report from the plumber. But Ms J provided an estimate is to
investigate and identify the source. So the source of a leak hadnt yet been confirmed.
Taking everything into account  I dont think theres sufficient evidence to show the damage
was covered under Ms Js policy as an insurable event. I think AXAs decision to decline the
claim because of a gradual cause was reasonable and in line with the policy.
Ms J is unhappy with the lack of updates she received from AXA. She said she had to chase
them regularly and send information twice.The inspecting surveyor visited Ms Js home on 18 July 2019 and his report is dated the
same. According to AXAs notes, it reviewed the report on 29 August 2019 and updated Ms
J. This was six weeks later.
On the same day Ms J complained about AXAs decision to reject her claim. On 30 August
2019 Ms J said a plumber had identified the source of the leak. AXA asked Ms J to provide a
copy of the original purchase report and the plumbers estimate for repairs.
On 29 September 2019 Ms J provided a copy of the purchase report and an estimate from
the plumber. The purchase report didnt highlight any relevant issues. Ms J emailed AXA
again on 14 October 2019 as she hadnt heard from it. She received an acknowledgement
on 15 October 2019. AXA said this would be added to her complaint. However, I dont think
the fact that Ms J made a complaint was a reason not to progress Ms Js claim and review
the information shed provided sooner. In December 2019 Ms J called to chase for an
update. She said she hadnt heard anything since receiving a holding letter on 23 October
2019. She said she had only partial use of her bathroom.
On 3 January 2020 AXA replied to Ms Js complaint. It said it upheld the complaint in part
and said it would ask its in house Surveyor to review all of the information received. This
was three months after Ms J provided the plumbers estimate and purchase report.
According to its notes, AXA received the surveyors findings six days later  on 9 January
2020. On 11 February 2020 Ms J called for an update. AXA replied by letter to Ms J on 14
February 2020 to say its decision to decline the claim was correct. Ms J didnt receive the
letter, so she chased again on 3 March 2020. I cant hold AXA responsible for Ms J not
receiving the letter. But I think AXA caused a further unnecessary delay here of five weeks
from 9 January 2020 to 14 February 2020.
Complaints handling isnt a regulated activity that we can consider. So I dont intend to
comment on that in my decision. However, I dont think it was reasonable for AXA to delay
Ms Js claim while it was dealing with her complaint. It was clearly already a distressing time
for Ms J and is clear she had to chase AXA for updates. So for the distress and
inconvenience AXA caused, I think it should compensate Ms J by paying her £300.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I think AXAs decision to decline the 
escape of water claim was reasonable. But I think it caused delays and failed to update Ms 
J during the claim. So I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Ms J £300 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience it caused.
AXA Insurance UK Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Ms J accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms J how much its taken off. It should also give 
Ms J a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman