DRN-1865664
 
The complaint
Mrs T says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance policy 
(PPI). 
What happened
In March 2004 Mrs T applied for a store card in store. At the same time she took out a PPI 
policy to cover her store card payments.
Our adjudicator thought that the complaint should be upheld because at the time of the sale 
she didnt think AXA made the policys cost and benefits clear enough to Mrs T. She thought 
that if Mrs T had fully understood the cost of the policy she wouldnt have taken it out as she 
didnt think she wouldve thought the policy to be good value for her. 
AXA disagreed so this case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ts complaint.                                                  
Mrs T applied for her store card and PPI policy in store. From what I know about how these 
policies were sold I dont think Mrs T was advised to take the policy, but rather PPI was 
selected on the store card application form. But Mrs T wouldve been given information 
about PPI and it was up to her whether she wanted to buy it.
This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so she 
could make an informed choice about buying it. To make an informed choice Mrs T needed 
to understand the main costs and benefits of PPI, as well as any reasons why she mightnt 
be covered for the PPI policy.
Ive seen a copy of the application form Mrs T completed. I can see that although Mrs T has 
signed within the section to take PPI there is no information provided about what PPI is and 
the protection it provided. And although at the top of the agreement it says Costs just 1.5p 
for every pound on your monthly balance because it is in small print and not within the 
PPI section I dont think this is displaying important information clearly. 
So I cant say Mrs T wouldve understood what the policy was going to cost her or the 
possibility of interest being charged on the PPI premiums or what the benefits of the policy 
were.
The benefit of the policy was 15% of the outstanding monthly balance on the store card and 
wouldve been paid for up to 12 months for each claim and eventually paid the balance of the store card off.
At the time of sale Mrs T says if she lost her job or was unable to work due to accident or 
sickness, between her work benefits and her savings, she had enough to cover her store 
card payments for a significant period of time. 
I think based on what Mrs T has told us its likely she did have this level of savings and work 
benefits and I think this was enough to cover her store card repayments for a significant 
period of time if she was unable to work. And I think if Mrs T had understood this she 
wouldnt have taken out the policy as I dont think she wouldve thought the benefit she got 
from the policy was worth the cost and therefore she has lost out as a result. 
It follows that I uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs T in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs T would owe on her store card if the policy hadnt 
been added to it.
 
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs T owes and what she would 
have owed.
 
If Mrs T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 
B. If  when AXA works out what Mrs T would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs 
T paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest 
on the extra Mrs T paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when 
Mrs T wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 
15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
 
C. AXA should tell Mrs T what its done to work out A and B.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must 
give Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
My final decisionFor the reasons explained, I uphold Mrs Ts complaint against AXA France IARD. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman