DRN-3249899
The complaint
This complaint is about the compensation HFC Bank Limited (HFC) offered Mr M in 
respect of two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies that were mis-sold to him.
I know that when Mr M took the loan out, HFC was trading under a different name. And 
he also received a final response from a different business. But as HFC is the business 
responsible for this complaint, Ill just refer to HFC from now on.
What happened
As well as the borrowing set out below, Mr M had an HFC loan that he took out in 2000. 
In his complaint form, he indicated the dispute was about the compensation for the 
borrowing in 2003 and so that is what I have dealt with below.
In February 2003, Mr M took out an HFC loan for £3,500 (Loan 1). He borrowed an 
additional amount of £277.60 to pay for a single premium life insurance policy that would 
have repaid his loan in the unfortunate event of his death. As the policy sold to Mr M was 
a single premium, he borrowed extra on top of his loan to pay for PPI, and he also had to 
pay interest on that premium.
In October 2003, Mr M took out another loan, and the amount borrowed was £11,341 
(Loan 2). He used Loan 2 to repay the outstanding balance of Loan 1, and a rebate of 
£218 was applied in respect of the PPI sold alongside Loan 1. For Loan 2, Mr M was sold 
a further life insurance policy to repay the loan in the event of his death, and he was also 
sold an accident, sickness and unemployment (ASU) policy to cover his repayments if 
he lost his job or if he was off sick from work. These policies were single premiums and 
again, Mr M had to borrow extra on top of his loan to pay for them. The cost of the life 
insurance policy was £943.06 before interest. The ASU policy cost £1,599.10 before 
interest.
At the same time in October 2003, Mr M was sold a critical illness policy. He borrowed £322 
to pay for that policy. He was also sold a further single premium life insurance policy and  
another ASU policy alongside that extra borrowing. The cost of the additional policies was
£26.78 and £45.40 respectively.
In or around April 2005, Mr M was made redundant and so he made a PPI claim. HFC 
says the value of that claim was £1,932.61, and it doesnt look as though Mr M disputes 
what HFC says in that regard.
Mr M fell into some financial difficulties and in or around November 2006, he entered an 
IVA with his creditors. At this time, HFC says it charged off £12,958.99. A charge off is 
similar to what is often known as a write off and effectively means it is an amount 
outstanding that a business does not believe will be repaid.
HFC says that at the point when the loan was charged off, the PPI policy was 
cancelled, and it issued two refunds of what it calls the unused portion of Mr Ms PPI 
policy. Those amounts were £180.93 and then a further £306.79 respectively.
However, HFC received some payments after the account was charged off. Ive had 
the benefit of seeing some information from Mr Ms insolvency practitioner (IP) and it 
looks as as though HFC was paid a further £11,546.08 between 2009 and 2014. After 
those payments have been deducted from the loan account, there would have still been 
an outstanding balance on the loan account of around £1,412.92.
Mr M complained to HFC that it had mis-sold PPI to him. HFC agreed and for Loan 2, it 
offered to refund the premiums Mr M paid up to the charge off date, along with interest. It 
deducted the value of Mr Ms PPI claim from the amount it offered him. Mr M didnt think 
that offer was fair and so he complained to this service.
 Our adjudicator thought HFCs offer was fair because, amongst other things, Mr M hadnt 
repaid the loan in full. Mr M did not agree. He said he thought he had paid around 90% of 
the loan back and so it followed he had paid for 90% of the PPI. In his view, the amount 
HFC offered was not even close to what he said he had paid for the cover and 
represented around 25% of the cost of the PPI. He worked out that the outstanding 
balance amounted to around 7.5 months premiums. So he thought that he should be 
refunded 76.5 months insurance premiums.
As Mr M didnt agree with what our adjudicator said, the matter was passed to me. I 
issued a povisional decision in which I said I didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld, but I wanted to elaborate on the reasons given by our adjudicator. 
What I said in my provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said; 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, but after giving careful thought to this matter, my 
provisional view is that HFCs offer was fair. So I dont intend to uphold the complaint. 
Ill explain why below.
Where PPI has been mis-sold, Id expect the business responsible for the sale to return 
that person to the position theyd have been in if the policy hadnt been sold in the first 
place. If that person made a successful claim while the PPI policy was running, I think its 
fair for a business to deduct the value of the claim from the compensation it owes. If it 
didnt deduct the value of the claim, the person would be in a better position. Thats 
because theyd have had the benefit of the PPI, as well as having their premiums 
refunded.
Mr M doesnt appear to dispute what HFC said about Loan 1. I can see there has been 
some confusion about the rebate HFC says Mr M received when Loan 2 was charged off 
in 2007. As I said above, HFC says the rebate amounted to £487.72. Mr M was concerned 
that HFC may have made a claim from the insurance company for this amount and that 
neither he nor his IP were made aware of that rebate.
I think it is important for me to state that £487.72 would not have been paid directly to Mr 
M, nor would it have been paid to HFC because it made an insurance claim. Instead, the 
amount Mr M owed HFC at the charge off date would have been reduced by £487.72, or 
the rebate amount.
Turning then to HFCs calculation of compensation for Loan 2. HFC says its calculation 
includes the PPI sold alongside what Id call the main loan of £11,341, and the additional 
critical illness policy. It looks as though HFC said Mr M had paid £1,053.59 towards the 
PPI before the borrowing was charged off. It also says that £2,384.48 was left to be paid 
at that point. That means the total cost of the PPI, including interest, was £3,438.07.
Mr M had made a successful PPI claim. And as I said above, its fair for HFC to deduct 
the value of the claim Mr M made, which was £1,932.61. The amount remaining is 
therefore
£1,505.46. I can see that HFC based its offer around what Mr M had paid up to the point 
of charge off. And that offer is less than the outstanding amount of £1,505.46 Ive set out 
above.
But the parties agree that although Mr M made quite a lot of payments through the IVA, there was still an outstanding balance of £1412.92 after taking account of those 
payments. Thats the case even though the remaining balance had been charged off.
As I said, I appreciate that outstanding balance was charged off by HFC, which 
effectively means it didnt expect to get that money back. But there was still an 
outstanding balance, even though Mr M wasnt expected to pay it back. So in this 
situation, HFC owed Mr M some money for mis-sold PPI, but Mr M still owed HFC some 
money because the funds he borrowed hadnt been repaid in full.
With all of this in mind, it would have been fair for HFC to calculate its offer of 
compensation by deducting the outstanding loan balance of £1,412.92 from the 
£1,505.46. This is called offsetting. But in this case, HFC hasnt offset that outstanding 
balance. The offer it made to refund what Mr M paid up to the charge off date puts him in 
a more generous position than that. So I dont think it would be right for me to tell HFC to 
pay him anything further.
I am sorry to disappoint Mr M, but for the reasons set out above, Im provisionally 
satisfied HFCs offer of compensation was fair. I dont intend to tell it to take any further 
action in this case. 
I asked the parties to provide me with any further evidence or information they wanted 
me to consider before I issued a final decision.  HFC indicated it had nothing further to 
add. Mr M sent me a number of observations and further comments. I am grateful for the 
time he has taken in providing that further information to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have given careful thought to the additional information provided by Mr M. Whilst I 
appreciate his strength of feeling, Im afraid I dont uphold this complaint for effectively 
the reasons given in my provisional decision. Ill explain why below. 
Just to reiterate, as the parties agree PPI was mis-sold, I am only looking at whether 
HFCs offer to compensate Mr M for that mis-sale was fair. When PPI is mis-sold to a 
consumer, so far as is possible, Id expect the business selling that cover to put the 
consumer in the position theyd be in if PPI had never been sold in the first place.
The thrust of Mr Ms response was two-fold: that he could have bought a cheaper policy 
elsewhere while still receiving the same benefits from his successful claim; and, for 
various reasons, it was not fair to take account of his successful PPI claim. 
I appreciate Mr M feels that he was charged a high amount for the cover, and that he 
could have paid less for the PPI from a different insurance provider. However, as I said 
above, what I have to consider is whether HFC returned Mr M to the position he would 
have been in if PPI had not been sold. I must concern myself with the policy that was 
sold to Mr M. I cant reasonably embark upon what would be a speculative exercise 
about a different policy he could have bought elsewhere. 
I have also carefullly reconsidered whether I should take account of the claim Mr M 
made in deciding what amounts to fair compensation. In making this decision, I must 
have regard to the rules that apply to this service. Those rules are the DISP rules, and 
are set by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). They can be found online in the 
FCAs handbook. 
DISP APP 3 sets out what a business is expected to do to put things right for a 
consumer when PPI has been mis-sold. DISP App 3.7.3 E provides that a business must 
refund everything the consumer paid for the PPI. But DISP App 3.7.5 E says that the business may also deduct the value of a successful claim made by that person. 
In this case, I am satisfied that taking account of Mr Ms successful PPI claim falls within 
the DISP rules. Mr M wouldnt have been able to benefit from that claim if he hadnt taken 
the PPI policy out. So my view remains that it was fair for HFC to deduct that amount 
from the compensation it now owes Mr M. 
I do very much appreciate Mr Ms strength of feeling and his efforts in pursuing this 
dispute.  However, after considering the matter at length and for the reasons set out 
above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about HFC Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman