DRN-3498024
The complaint
Mr N has complained about Tokio Marine Kiln Insurance Limited (TMK). He isnt happy 
about the way it dealt with a claim under his Guaranteed Asset Protection (GAP) insurance 
policy after his car was written off.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as TMK are responsible for it, 
Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Mr N made a claim under his GAP motor insurance policy after his car was written off in an 
accident. TMK looked into the claim after the motor insurance company had paid out the 
market value of his car. It valued his car and offered to pay Mr N the difference between the 
market value paid by the insurer and the approximate cost of buying a similar replacement 
vehicle in line with his replacement vehicle and finance GAP insurance policy.
But Mr N wasnt happy about the amount TMK offered. This was because when he got the 
information about how TMK valued his car it became clear it had relied on incorrect 
information in making its offer. It had got two valuations or offers of the equivalent new 
model of Mr Ns car and a direct valuation or offer from the dealership he originally bought 
his car from. But it transpired that the two offers or valuations were for a lower model and 
specification car than Mr Ns. But TMK was satisfied that Mr N was offered a fair value as it 
felt he could have bought a very similar car from the dealership he originally bought his car 
from and so if it paid more (in line with the other dealership valuations and offers Mr N 
gained) that would amount to betterment.
When Mr N complained about this and the fact that he was told he would be paid an 
additional amount of money in relation to a paintwork product on his car TMK maintained its 
position. Although it offered £200 compensation for the mis-advice it had given in relation to 
the paintwork. But as Mr N remained unhappy he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr N and upheld his complaint. She thought TMKs 
valuation wasnt fair and that it should revalue the car and pay Mr N the difference plus 8% 
simple interest. And although she initially thought TMK should pay Mr N the cost he incurred 
in relation to the paintwork she eventually accepted that TMKs offer to pay £200 
compensation for its mis-advice was fair. But she thought it should pay a further £100 
compensation for the stress and inconvenience all this had caused Mr N. 
As TMK didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I think the complaint 
should be upheld. Put simply TMK feel that Mr N would be in a better position if it was to pay 
an amount in line with the valuations Mr N gained.
But even if I was to accept that position Mr N has been clear in his evidence that this wasnt 
the case. He contacted the particular dealership in question who wouldnt offer him the car 
for this value or even provide him with the documentation showing the valuation. It seems 
clear the particular model Mr N had wasnt common and that the few remaining models that 
were on the market were already earmarked for other consumers. So, I dont think offering 
Mr N more than the one dealership valuation TMK had obtained, which was out of line with 
the other valuations provided by other dealerships, would amount to betterment as it is clear 
he couldnt buy that car even if he wished to. Indeed, Mr N proceeded to buy a completely 
different model of car.
Furthermore, Mr N should be paid out in line with the policy terms and conditions and then 
he would be free to act as he wished. His policy said Following a valid claim where your 
vehicle is declared a total loss by a motor insurer we will pay the shortfall between the motor 
insurers total loss valuation and the greater of either the cost of a replacement vehicle or, 
the early settlement amount that you owe under your finance agreement up to the sum 
insured. And as Mr Ns car was no longer in production the policy dictated that If your 
vehicle model is no longer available or no longer in production, then we will use the price of 
the nearest equivalent vehicle.
Given this it seems clear Mr N should be provided with the shortfall between his motor 
insurers total loss valuation and the cost of a replacement vehicle. And as TMK says it will 
use the price of the nearest equivalent vehicle then I dont think it would be fair for its 
valuation to be solely based on one dealership offer or valuation, especially as the other two 
quotes TMK gained dont appear to be for the model that was closest to Mr Ns. Ultimately, I 
dont think it would be fair for TMKs valuation to be based solely on one dealerships price, 
especially as this dealership wouldnt offer the car to Mr N in any event and he certainly 
didnt proceed to buy that particular car.
So, the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this case is for 
TMK to recalculate the settlement amount providing Mr N with a fair value adding 8% simple 
interest from the date of loss until the date of settlement for the shortfall. Mr N has provided 
a number of offers from other dealerships from around the time and it would seem fair to use 
an average of these as opposed to the one dealership quote TMK has used. And I agree 
that it should pay an additional £100 for the clear stress and inconvenience Mr N has faced 
in having to chase this matter.
Finally, I accept that Mr N was mis-advised in relation to the additional costs he incurred in 
relation to the paintwork. But I think TMKs offer of £200 compensation for this seems fair as 
I dont think he faced any further detriment other than being misadvised.
Replies and developments
Both sides responded to my provisional decision. TMK accepted my position but reiterated 
its original point and said again it thought its original offer was fair and that to do otherwise 
would amount to betterment. 
While Mr N said he thought the position outlined was fair and just. But he said again he 
thought TMK should have honoured the offer it made when it mis-advised him about the 
additional costs incurred in relation to the paintwork. And he provided some general 
commentary about the fact that he was shocked about the way TMK had looked to value his 
car in the first instance and that it didnt change its position when he raised this. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both sides appear to accept the majority of the position outlined in my provisional 
decision I dont propose to rehearse the arguments again. 
Ultimately, having reconsidered everything again Im still of the view the complaint should be 
upheld. I dont think there is any aspect of betterment for Mr N here in looking to pay an 
average figure of the possible quotation prices that the various dealerships offered as 
opposed to just looking at one dealership price, especially as he wasnt able to buy the car 
from that dealership in any event. 
I do accept Mr Ns general point about what he was told about the additional costs incurred 
in relation to the paintwork. But as Ive outlined I dont think he faced any detriment here, so I 
feel TMKs offer of £200 compensation alongside the additional £100 I outlined seems fair.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Tokio Marine 
Kiln Insurance Limited to;
recalculate the settlement amount providing Mr N with a fair value adding 8% simple 
interest from the date of loss until the date of payment of any shortfall;
use an average of the offers from other dealerships as provided by Mr N from around 
the time of loss to establish a fair price; and 
pay an additional £100 (£300 in total) compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman