DRN-4003641
Complaint
Mrs S has complained that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) irresponsibly provided her 
with an unaffordable credit card. She said that she was provided with this credit card at a 
time when she was already struggling because she had no income due to the pandemic.
Background
Mrs S was provided with a credit card, which had a credit limit of £2,200.00, in May 2020. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mrs S and Sainsburys had told us. And she thought 
that Sainsburys shouldnt have provided Mrs S with her credit card. So she upheld Mrs S 
complaint. 
Sainsburys didnt agree, so the case was passed to an ombudsman for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs S complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im upholding Mrs S complaint. Ill explain 
why in a bit more detail.
Sainsburys needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Sainsburys needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mrs S could afford to repay before providing her with a credit card.
 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The credit card Mrs S was provided with had a credit limit of £2,200.00. And as a credit card 
is a revolving credit facility, Sainsburys was required to understand whether Mrs S could 
repay around £2,200.00 within a reasonable period of time. 
Sainsburys says that Mrs S was asked to provide a declaration of her income and she 
stated it was around £11,000.00 a year. Although it hasnt provided me with evidence of how 
this declaration was captured or shown me what exactly Mrs S was asked to confirm.
I can also see that Sainsburys carried out a credit check which showed that Mrs S had total 
unsecured debt of around £8,000.00 and that no significant adverse information such as 
defaults or county court judgments had been recorded against her. 
I appreciate that Sainsburys did capture some information about Mrs S circumstances. In 
particular, I note that it has said that it relied on Mrs S declaration of income. However, 
CONC 5.2A.16 (G)(3) states:
For the purpose of considering the customers income under CONC 5.2A.15R, it is not 
generally sufficient to rely solely on a statement of current income made by 
the customer without independent evidence (for example, in the form of information supplied 
by a credit reference agency or documentation of a third party supplied by the third party or 
by the customer).
And Im also particularly mindful that Mrs S application took place at time where incomes 
were reducing, or at the very, least fluctuating because of the unprecedent situation. Bearing 
in mind all of this, I would have expected Sainsburys to have obtained some kind of 
independent verification of Mrs S income before agreeing to lend to her. 
Furthermore, I would also have expected Sainsburys to have obtained some kind of 
understanding of Mrs S non-discretionary expenditure. I accept that it partially did this, as by 
carrying out a credit check it had an idea of what her existing credit commitments were like. 
But this alone wont have told it anything about Mrs S other essential living costs  such as 
bills. So I dont think that Sainsburys found out enough about Mrs S circumstances and as 
this is the case, Im satisfied the checks it carried out werent reasonable and proportionate.
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this credit card was 
provided, I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is 
more likely than not that a proportionate check would have told Sainsburys that Mrs S would 
have been unable to sustainably repay this credit card.
Sainsburys was required to establish whether Mrs S could repay her entire balance, if drawn 
down, within a reasonable period of time, without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences  not just whether the minimum payment was technically affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. I think its important for me to highlight this given 
Sainsburys has said Mrs S did make her payments. 
Ive carefully considered the information provided in this context. Having done so, its clear 
that Mrs S income was significantly less than what Sainsburys believed it to be. And her 
income was pretty much being used to meet her living costs and existing commitments to 
creditors. So she didnt have sufficient funds to be able to make her payments and I think 
that proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown Sainsburys that Mrs S was 
unlikely to be able to make her payments without borrowing further or suffering significant 
adverse consequences.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mrs S would not have been able to make the
repayments to this credit card without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. 
And, in these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
likely than not have alerted Sainsburys to the fact that Mrs S was in no sort of position to 
make the payments on this credit card without suffering significant adverse consequences.
As Sainsburys provided Mrs S with this credit card in these circumstances, Im satisfied that 
it didnt act fairly and reasonably towards her. Mrs S went on to and is being expected to pay interest and charges on credit that she 
shouldnt have been provided with. So Im satisfied that she has lost out as a of what 
Sainsburys did wrong. And Im satisfied that Sainsburys now needs to put things right.   
Fair compensation  what Sainsburys to do to put things right for Mrs S
Having carefully considered everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable, in all the 
circumstances of Mrs S complaint, for Sainsburys to put things right in the following way:
rework Mrs S credit card to ensure that no interest at all is charged - to reflect the 
fact that this account should never have been provided in the first place. All late 
payment and over limit fees should also be removed;
if an outstanding balance, or balances, remains on Mrs S account once all 
adjustments have been made Sainsburys should contact Mrs S to arrange a suitable 
repayment plan for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on 
Mrs S credit file. 
if the effect of all adjustments results in there no longer being an outstanding 
balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to Mrs S 
along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they were made 
until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance remains on Mrs S account 
after all adjustments have been made, then Sainsburys should remove any adverse 
information recorded abut this card from Mrs S credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sainsburys to take off tax from this interest. Sainsburys 
must give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs S complaint. Sainsburys Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman