DRN-2834995
The complaint
Ms M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC irresponsibly allowed her to open a credit card 
account that was unaffordable.
What happened
Ms M says the Barclays credit card account was unaffordable and that it didnt carry out any 
checks on the application. She says she was in financial difficulties and would like all interest 
and charges refunded.
Barclays says the account was opened in 2018 and Ms M told it she was in employment 
earning £30,000 a year which it checked. It says it checked Ms Ms credit file which didnt 
show any adverse information and that it calculated she had just under £500 a month 
disposable income. Barclays says it approved a credit limit of £400 and has rejected Ms Ms 
applications to increase that limit. It says Ms M has managed her account appropriately and 
made required payments. The balance it says in February 2021 was £228.
Ms M brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Barclays had carried out appropriate checks on the application and confirmed Ms 
Ms income. The investigator thought Barclays considered Ms Ms credit file and that she 
managed her account appropriately.
Ms M doesnt accept that view and says her expenditure exceeded her income.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
lending or credit application. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type and 
amount of the lending. This was an application for a credit facility rather than for example a 
mortgage and so I wouldnt have expected Barclays to have carried out the same level of 
checks here compared to for example other types of lending.
I have looked at the information Ms M gave Barclays when she applied for the credit card 
account. I can see she was in full time employment earning £30,000 a year. Im satisfied 
Barclays checked that information and considered Ms Ms credit file as well as her 
expenditure. So, Im satisfied Barclays carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on 
Ms Ms application and didnt simply approve the application without those checks as Ms M 
suggests. It follows that I think the lending facility was affordable and on the face of it Ms M 
had a disposable income every month of just under £500.
Im also satisfied that Barclays gave Ms M a relatively modest credit limit of £400 and took 
into account the lack of adverse information on her credit file. I can also see that Barclays 
rejected Ms Ms application for credit limit increases which I think provides further evidence 
that Barclays responsibly checked the original application and those later credit limit 
increases.
I have looked at Barclays records and Im satisfied Ms M managed this account 
appropriately and made required payments. I find that provides additional evidence that the 
lending decision was responsible and that the lending was affordable.
I dont think Ms M has told Barclays before this complaint about any financial difficulties. But 
if she is in such difficulties then I can see that Barclays has fairly provided details of its 
specialist team that can help her.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclays didnt act unfairly or make a mistake by allowing this credit 
card account to be opened and that it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
before doing so. In those circumstances I cant fairly order Barclays refund any interest or 
charges that I think were applied in line with agreed account terms and conditions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman