DRN-2686996
The complaint
Mr M complains that London General Insurance Company Limited havent repaired his TV 
properly after he claimed on his TV insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to London General includes its agents.      
What happened
Mr M claimed on his TV insurance policy as his screen was damaged in an accident. London 
General reviewed and accepted the claim and sent an engineer to replace the screen on Mr 
Ms TV. After the screen was replaced Mr M said his TV had intermittent faults, specifically 
the screen would go blank for a split second, it sometimes wouldnt turn on, and also the 
volume wouldnt always work. 
London General inspected Mr Ms TV and couldnt find any faults, because of this they 
asked Mr M to video the faults so they could be looked into further. Mr M took videos of the 
TV not turning on and also the volume not working, he said he couldnt get a video of the 
screen going blank as it only happened for a split second. London General reviewed the 
videos and sent another engineer to inspect his TV. The engineer couldnt identify a fault 
with Mr Ms TV but said from the videos it looked like there was a fault with it. As the 
engineer couldnt identify the fault and hadnt experienced it when he inspected the TV, 
London General said it couldnt do anymore. 
Mr M didnt think this was good enough and brought his complaint here. He said his TV had 
worked fine before the accident and these intermittent faults had only occurred after the 
screen was replaced. 
Our investigator reviewed Mr Ms complaint and recommended it was upheld. She found that 
London General agreed the videos Mr M had taken showed his TV likely had a fault. 
Because of this she asked London General to replace Mr Ms TV and pay him £100 for 
distress and inconvenience. London General disagreed with our investigator, it said two 
engineers had inspected Mr Ms TV and not found a fault with it. 
As London General disagreed the complaint has come to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy say where his TV suffers accidental damage, 
London General will attempt to repair it where possible. It goes onto say if its uneconomical 
to repair then London General will replace it with one of the same make and model, where 
possible. 
Mr Ms TV suffered accidental damage to the screen and London General repaired the 
screen. Following this Mr M has said hes experienced intermittent faults and provided 
videos to support this. 
London General has accepted the videos Mr M provided shows his TV has a fault but said 
as the engineer has been unable to identify any faults with the TV there isnt anything further 
it can do. Ive considered London Generals comments, but Im not satisfied thats a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
While I understand the engineers have been unable to identify the fault when they inspected 
Mr Ms TV, its accepted that Mr Ms TV has a fault, as hes provided videos of it. So, as the 
engineers are unable to find the fault, this means its not possible for them to repair it. 
Therefore, as London General is unable to identify or repair the fault with Mr Ms TV 
following his claim, the fair and reasonable outcome would be for London General to replace 
his TV with one of the same make and model if possible. As it would do under the policy if 
the TV was uneconomical to repair. 
As Mr M has had to put up with this intermittent fault following the repair this has caused him 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience. I think its fair and reasonable for London General 
to pay him £100 to compensate him for this.      
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold this complaint. I require London General 
Insurance Company Limited to replace Mr Ms TV with one of the same make and model, as 
defined in the policy terms. London General Insurance Company Limited also needs to pay 
Mr M £100 for distress and inconvenience.     
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman