DRN-2195091
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the way that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line 
(UKI) has handled a claim they made on their home insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr and Mrs M suffered water damage to their home after rodents chewed 
through a pipe. They made a claim on their home insurance policy for the damage. UKI 
initially turned down the claim, but it later reconsidered and agreed to deal with it. 
UKIs contractor assessed the damage to Mr and Mrs Ms home and produced a scope of 
works, which set out what it would cost it to carry out the repairs. This was around £1511. 
UKI offered this amount to Mr and Mrs M as a cash settlement.
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with UKIs offer. Mr M said hed spoken to tradespeople who 
wouldnt carry out the work for that price and whod told Mr M itd cost substantially more to 
get the repairs done. 
So UKI offered Mr and Mrs M the choice of having its contractor carry out the repairs or 
accepting the settlement itd offered. But Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy with the way UKI 
had handled their claim  especially as a sub-contractor got in touch without Mr and Mrs M 
being told itd been appointed and because the contractor had contacted Mrs M rather than 
Mr M. 
UKI accepted it hadnt handled Mr and Mrs Ms claim as well as it couldve done. So it 
offered them £75 compensation to recognise the errors itd made. But Mr and Mrs M werent 
satisfied with UKIs offer and they asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator thought UKI ought to have let Mr and Mrs M know upfront that they could 
choose to get the work done by its contractor, as well as the option to accept a cash 
settlement. But she acknowledged that ultimately, UKI had given Mr and Mrs M this option. 
She was satisfied UKI was entitled to limit the offer of cash settlement to what it would cost 
its own contractors in these circumstances. And she felt the compensation itd offered was 
fair.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. In summary, they said they hadnt been able to find a tradesperson 
willing to carry out the work, or quote for it. They felt UKI had knowingly quoted them a sum 
that wouldnt cover getting the repairs done. They didnt think the investigators assessment 
reflected the lack of care displayed by UKI. They considered UKIs communication was 
contemptuous and hectoring. They felt the investigators opinion was at odds with other 
cases wed decided. They considered that case law set out the purpose of compensation 
and that UKIs offer was insufficient and wasnt a deterrent. They said they were seeking 
compensation of £450.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think UKIs offer of compensation is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
First, Ive considered the terms of Mr and Mrs Ms contract with UKI, which sets out how UKI 
may settle claims. The policy says:
If the buildings are damaged by any of the causes listed in [Section 1], we will either:
 repair or rebuild the damaged part using our suppliers
 pay to repair or rebuild the damaged part using your suppliers
 make a cash payment
If we can repair or rebuild the damaged part, but we agree to use your suppliers or make a 
cash payment, we will only pay you what it would have cost us using our suppliers and 
therefore the amount you receive may be lower than the cost charged by your suppliers.
I think the policy sets out that UKI may choose how it wishes to settle a claim. But I also 
think it makes it clear that where it chooses to pay a cash settlement, its entitled to limit the 
settlement to the cost to its own contractor if its able to carry out repairs and a policyholders 
asked for a cash settlement or wants to use their own contractor instead.
In this case, it seems that UKIs contractors could carry out the works needed to put right Mr 
and Mrs Hs home. And it seems it wasnt made clear upfront to Mr and Mrs M that they had 
the choice to use UKIs contractor to carry out the repairs if they wished to.  I think UKI 
shouldve explained this option to Mr and Mrs M when it discussed how it planned to settle 
their claim. So I do think it made a mistake here.  
UKI also accepts that there were some delays in keeping Mr and Mrs M updated about the 
claim and that its contractors got in touch with Mrs M when it shouldve contacted Mr M. 
Taking the above errors into account, I think its appropriate that UKI should pay Mr and Mrs 
M some compensation. Its important that I make clear that our awards for compensation are 
not intended to fine or punish a financial business, or to act as a deterrent. Compensation 
awards are intended to reflect the material distress and inconvenience a consumers 
suffered as the result of a business doing something wrong. And to reflect the subsequent 
impact of that distress and inconvenience.
In this case, UKIs notes suggest that it first offered Mr and Mrs M a cash settlement on 19 
February 2020. It seems UKI let Mr M know he could opt for its contractor to carry out the 
repairs on 6 March 2020. So it seems the delay in agreeing the best way to settle the claim 
was only just over two weeks. I accept it mustve been frustrating when there were 
communication delays and when the contractor wrongly got in touch with Mrs M. But overall, 
I think £75 is a fair amount of compensation to reflect the errors UKI made over a relatively 
short span of time. And I dont think the progression of the claim was particularly delayed as 
a result of UKIs mistakes. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M felt UKIs cash settlement offer was too low. It was open to them 
to provide formal quotes for the work from their own contractors for UKI to consider. UKI has 
provided a detailed, costed scope of works which shows how the settlement it offered Mr 
and Mrs M had been calculated. And as UKI did ultimately offer Mr and Mrs M the option of 
using its own contractor to do the works, Im satisfied its offer of cash settlement 
representing the cost to it of the contractor completing the repairs, is now in line with the 
policy terms. So overall, Im not telling UKI to pay anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that UKIs offer of compensation is fair 
and reasonable.
If U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line has not yet paid Mr and Mrs M £75 
compensation, I now direct it to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman