DRN-3383946
The complaint
Ms G complains that Target Servicing Limited, which administered her secured loan on 
behalf of the lender, wrongly recorded missed payments on her credit file.
What happened
Ms G had a secured loan. The original lender sold it on to another firm, called Arrow Global 
Account Management Limited. Arrow Global Account Management Limited is unregulated, 
so it has appointed Target Servicing Limited to manage the loan on its behalf. As the 
regulated entity administering this loan, Target is responsible for the complaint. Although 
Ms G has referred to Arrow in bringing this complaint, Ill use Target throughout as its the 
responsible firm.
Ms G complains that Target recorded missed payments for February, March, April and May 
2019 on her credit file. She said she paid manually before the end of each month. She said 
she paid off the loan in June 2019, and received a refund of overpayments in November 
2019  so it cant reasonably be said that she had been in arrears. She says the missed 
payments have caused her problems in obtaining other credit.
Ms G said that in late December 2018 and early January 2019 she was undergoing medical 
treatment. So she made an overpayment in December 2018 to cover the January payment 
and part of the February payment. She made the rest of the February payment at the end of 
that month, and then paid further payments thereafter. 
Target said that no payment was received in January 2019. It said that this meant Ms Gs 
account went into arrears. It said that because the arrears were less than the equivalent of 
one months payment, it did not record the arrears for February. However, in March April 
May and June she was between one and two months payments in arrears, so it reported 1 
to her credit file. It said it had reported the account accurately and could not make any 
changes.
Our investigator thought Ms Gs credit file was an accurate reflection of how she had 
managed her account. Ms G didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted that Ms G says she made an overpayment in December 2018, to cover the 
payment she knew she wouldnt be able to make in January. But Target say there was a 
missed payment. So Ive checked both Ms Gs bank statements (which she has given us a 
copy of) and Targets loan statements to confirm which is correct.
The loan statements show that the monthly payment was £272.71. Ms G made the following 
payments:
Throughout the second half of 2018 - £273 or £275 per month.
30 November 2018 - £275 (credited to her loan on 3 December)
27 December 2018 - £273 (credited 28 December)
26 February 2019 - £173 (credited 27 February)
25 March 2019 - £303 (credited 26 March)
24 April 2019 - £303 
17 May 2019 - £303
Im afraid theres no evidence on either her bank statements or the loan statements that she 
made an overpayment in December.
Her bank statements show payments of either £273 or £275 each month through the second 
half of 2018, no payment in January and a payment of £100 less than the due amount in 
February 2019.
The loan statements show exactly the same thing  except that the November payment 
shows as being paid on 3 December rather than 30 November. I assume that is because the 
payment was received later than it was made. 
Both Ms Gs bank statement and the loan statements show that she paid the monthly 
payment each month in 2018, missed January, paid £100 short in February and then 
resumed full payments (plus around £30 extra) from March.
There is no evidence, either on her bank statements or on the loan statements, that Ms G 
made an overpayment in December.
I appreciate that Ms G says that she did  but I have not seen any other evidence of that.
Im therefore satisfied that Target is right that Ms G missed Januarys payment and went into 
arrears. Because shed overpaid very slightly in 2018, that offset the missed payment and 
meant she wasnt quite one month in arrears by the end of January, so no arrears entry was 
made on her credit file for February. But because she also underpaid in February, that tipped 
her over the equivalent of one months arrears. That led Target to record 1 for March. 
Thereafter, Ms G overpaid by £30 or so each month, which gradually reduced the arrears 
until they were back below one months worth by the end of June, when her credit file 
showed as up to date again.
Ms G says this cant be right, because in November 2019 she received a refund of 
overpayments. She says that she cant both have overpaid and have been in arrears.
Shes right about that  but thats not what happened. By 2019, Ms Gs balance was small. 
As she made her monthly payments, it reduced each month. And by September 2019, she 
had paid the loan off. 
If shed been paying by direct debit, her payments would have stopped. But she wasnt, she 
was making a manual payment each month. Her September payment was more than 
enough to clear the balance left in September, and she made another payment in October 
even though the loan had been paid off by then. The refund in November was part of the September payment and the October payment. It was unrelated to the position at the start of 
2019 when she missed the January and part of the February payment.
Ive also seen that Target wrote to Ms G each month in 2019 to notify her of the arrears (on 
headed paper from the lender). So I think it made her aware of the position at the time.
I understand that Ms G believes she overpaid in December 2018, and that therefore she 
couldnt have been in arrears in January and February. But Im afraid theres no evidence to 
suggest that she actually did so, or that she discussed the payments with the lender or 
Target at the time, and so Im afraid I think it more likely shes mistaken in her belief about 
what happened. Im satisfied she did miss those payments, she didnt have the lenders 
agreement to do so, and so it was fair that Target recorded that she had done so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman