DRN-3407186
The complaint
Mrs C complains on behalf of the executors of the estate of Mr E about AXA Insurance UK 
Plcs handling of a claim made under a home insurance policy.
For ease I will refer to Mrs C in my decision, rather than the executors of Mr Es estate.
All references to AXA include its appointed agents.
What happened
Mrs C has been directly dealing with a claim for an escape of water to the insured property 
which was raised around 2018. She says that the repairs should have been completed by 
January 2019 which was when she intended to sell or let the property. 
When the repairs were signed off in January 2019, Mrs C found there were further issues 
with a damp wall. After some delays, AXA accepted the further repairs and the work was 
completed by September 2020. 
Mrs C raised complaints to AXA about how the complaint had been handled. AXA 
responded in September 2019 and March 2020. Overall, AXA accepted that the claim 
shouldve progressed more quickly than it did and took responsibility for the actions of its 
agents in prolonging the claim. AXA offered Mrs C directly a total of £3,000 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused to her in dealing with the claim. 
Mrs C didnt agree with AXAs response and referred the complaint to our service. 
Our service investigated the complaint in February 2021. Our investigator concluded that our 
service was unable to consider the events up to AXAs final response letter of 17 March 
2020 as they had been referred too late. 
Following our services investigation, Mrs C raised further complaint points to AXA about its 
handling of the claim. She said AXAs previous responses hadnt fully considered the issues 
with the damp wall in the property after the works had been signed off. And she said she had 
incurred financial loss from not being able to rent out the property while the damp wall was 
being repaired. Mrs C also says that the delays meant the sale of the property took much 
longer than it should have done, and that it was sold for a lower value as a result. 
Mrs C also didnt think AXAs offer of compensation was sufficient in the circumstances. And 
she said she had incurred additional costs in monthly utility bills and garden maintenance 
which were linked to AXAs delays.
Our investigator looked at everything and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They 
concluded there wasnt sufficient evidence to show Mrs C had been impacted by loss of rent, 
as they couldnt see evidence that tenants were being lined up. And they didnt think there 
was sufficient evidence to show how the value of the property had been impacted by the 
delay. 
Our investigator also commented that they thought AXAs offer of compensation was 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mrs C didnt accept this, so the complaint was passed to me. I issued my provisional findings 
on 15 March 2022 where I said I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. Ive repeated an 
extract below.
The rules which our service are required to follow  specifically DISP 2.7.2  state that a 
complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant (or a deceased person who 
would have been an eligible complainant) by a person authorised by the eligible complainant 
or authorised by law. 
Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mrs C is acting on behalf of the estate of  
Mr E in this complaint. But this does mean that any awards our service makes are to Mr Es 
estate and we cant award personal amounts lost by beneficiaries or executors. In other 
words, the eligible complainant here is Mr Es estate, so it can only be estate losses this 
service can ask AXA to pay. And this also means we cant comment on the fairness of or 
make any compensation award to Mrs C personally for distress and inconvenience. 
AXA has accepted the claim wasnt handled well. And its clear that Mrs Cs efforts here 
were what drove the claim forward to a conclusion. The claim has now been settled, so 
whats left for me to determine are if there are any losses to the estate that Mrs C claims. 
These are the potential loss of rent, property value, and any outstanding utility invoices. 
Loss of rent/property value 
Mrs C is claiming for potential loss of rent costs from when the claim shouldve been 
finalised in January 2019 to when it was settled in September 2020. 
AXA says it has paid alternative accommodation (AA) costs on the claim, and so one cannot 
claim for both AA and loss of rent.
I can see theres a conversation between AXA and Mrs C on the claim file around 
September 2019, where Mrs C highlighted that her mother hadnt been able to move home. 
And the reason given was due to the upset caused by some sentimental items being 
disposed of as part of the claim. 
AXA says this shows Mrs Cs mother was intending to return to the property, and that it 
hadnt been made aware of any intention to let the property. And it says that in any event the 
policy covers for the policy holder to live in the property, as opposed to it being let out.
Having considered the evidence, it appears the AA costs were predominately claimed for the 
period prior to January 2019, when the executors were staying in a hotel rather than the 
property which was uninhabitable. However, the crux of Mrs Cs complaint is that she lost 
out on renting the property after January 2019 for the 19-month period until the claim was 
finalised. 
So, I need to consider the general circumstances when the claim was made, and whether 
AXAs conclusions are reasonable based on the available evidence. Based on everything Ive seen, Im not persuaded that the overall circumstances lend weight 
to a potential loss of rent claim here. It has been acknowledged that the family used the 
property occasionally when visiting and would have most likely continued to do so had it not 
been uninhabitable. And this was the reason Mrs C claimed for AA costs which AXA paid. 
Once the property was repaired it was marketed and sold. So, I think that it is more likely 
than not that this wouldve happened in any event, but for AXAs delays. I think its less likely 
that the property was intended to be let. And like our investigator, Ive not seen any evidence 
that there were any potential tenants lined up to move in, but for the additional repairs. 
So, based on everything Ive seen, I cannot fairly conclude that AXAs actions caused a 
direct loss to the estate for loss of rent here. 
Turning to the sale of the property itself, Mrs C says that the delay in the claim meant the 
property was sold for lower than it was valued. And she provided figures of the initial 
valuation and the sale price.
I acknowledge that some time passed between the anticipated conclusion of the claim in 
January 2019 and when the property was put on the market in September 2020. And its 
probable that the market value for the area had changed during this time. But Ive not seen 
any definitive evidence which shows that Mrs C had a buyer arranged at a higher price than 
what the property eventually sold for, again but for the additional repairs.
In order to uphold this part of the complaint, Id need to be persuaded that either AXAs 
actions on the claim had a direct causation and link to the property valuation, or, that there 
was a measurable loss to the estate (for example if the ongoing issues with the claim caused 
a potential sale to fall through). As Ive not seen evidence of either, I dont intend to uphold 
this part of Mrs Cs complaint.
Additional costs 
Mrs C says that she has had to pay out monthly utility bills and maintenance including 
gardening charges during the 19-month period the claim was running on. And I think that 
these are costs which an executor would potentially pay and reclaim from the estate, subject 
to sufficient evidence being provided to AXA.
AXA says it has reimbursed Mrs C for the utility bills shes provided  the last record on file 
shows an invoice reimbursed around May 2020. Our investigator asked Mrs C to let them 
know of any other bills outstanding and they would submit these to AXA for consideration, 
but Ive not seen any further evidence submitted by Mrs C for these additional costs. 
In any event, Im satisfied that subject to proof that these costs are being charged to the 
estate, should Mrs C have any remaining invoices which havent been settled and agrees to 
share this evidence with AXA, then it should be liable to pay these costs up to the date the 
claim was settled in September 2020. 
AXA has settled the invoices that Mrs Cs submitted to date, so I dont think this changes the 
outcome of the complaint, as it hasnt yet reviewed what Mrs C claims is outstanding.
Compensation 
Its clear that the time Mrs C has spent dealing with this claim has caused her distress and 
inconvenience. But as I set out above, I cant ask AXA to pay her any compensation, or 
comment on what it has paid already as to do so would be outside of the scope of our rules. 
This is because Mrs C is acting on behalf of the eligible complainant here. In response to our services request for information, AXA said it was unable to issue a final 
response to Mrs Cs complaint within eight weeks, but had it done so, it would have made an 
offer of a further £500 compensation to her for the delays and snagging issues in resolving 
the claim between March 2020 and September 2020. 
AXA has confirmed this offer is still available to Mrs C should she wish to accept it. If Mrs C 
wishes to do so, shell need to contact AXA directly to arrange the payment.
Developments
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. AXA confirmed it had nothing further to 
add. Mrs C provided a substantial response which said in summary:
That I needed to consider why AXA closed down the claim in January 2019 when it 
knew there were still outstanding repairs at the property linked to the damp wall.
AXAs offer of a further £500 compensation was unacceptable.
AXAs previous offers of compensation covered events prior to January 2019.
AXA hasnt made any payments towards any of the bills incurred after January 2020.
That photos of the property showed why it couldnt be sold or let out.
That she wouldve claimed for additional AA costs instead of loss of rent had her 
family stayed in the local area whilst the claim was being finalised from January 2019 
to September 2020.
Mrs C also provided further evidence to reference that the value of the property had 
been affected by the claim and delayed repairs. And of the increased premiums 
whilst the property was on cover with AXA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I accept Mrs C has gone to some effort to provide me with additional 
information and evidence, I havent seen anything which upon review leads me to a different 
conclusion I reached in my provisional decision. Ill explain why below.
Mrs C has provided a further timeline of events which set out the issues with the claim in 
some detail. My background is intended to be a summary of key events I find relevant to my 
decision. The informal nature of our service and my role means Im not required to comment 
on every point thats raised, and I dont intend to cause Mrs C a discourtesy by not doing so. 
But I do want to reassure her that I have carefully read and reviewed all of the evidence 
provided by both parties before reaching my conclusions.
My provisional decision set out what I was able to consider in relation to this complaint and 
the overall claim. And having reviewed everything I remain persuaded that Ive considered 
everything within our services rules and remit. This in essence concerned the potential loss 
of rent claim between January 2019 and September 2020, the property sale value, and any 
costs which the estate could reasonably claim for during the above period.
For that reason, I wont be offering any comment on the matter of compensation for the 
reasons Ive given in my provisional decision. 
The evidence I have seen shows the overall state of the property during the period that the 
claim was reopened and concluded. But Im not persuaded that this is sufficient to meet the 
tests of a direct cause and link to the property value I set out in my provisional decision.I understand the point Mrs C makes about claiming additional AA costs, but I can only 
consider events that happened. And as no additional AA was required, I revert to the 
arguments set out in my provisional decision as to why Im not persuaded there was a valid 
loss of rent claim here either. 
Ive not seen any evidence of the further costs relating to utility bills that Mrs C says AXA 
havent paid. But in any event my position remains as set out in my provisional decision. So, 
if Mrs C can evidence this to AXA, she and the estate shouldnt lose out.
So, having carefully reconsidered everything, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached 
in my provisional decision, for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C on behalf of 
the estate of Mr E to accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman