DRN-1651480
 
The complaint
Mr O complains that Nationwide Building Society didn't tell him, when he applied for a new 
credit card, that he wasn't eligible for an introductory interest free offer.
What happened
Mr O says he applied for a new credit card but Nationwide didn't tell him he wasn't eligible 
for an introductory offer, as he had previously had a Nationwide credit card account in the 
previous 12 months . He says he spoke to staff in a branch before applying, and they didn't 
tell him about the eligibility criteria. He then applied via an application (app) on his mobile 
telephone and there was no mention of that condition. Mr O would like Nationwide to amend 
the application and says he suffered stress and has lost out on an interest free period on the 
credit card which has cost him money.
Nationwide says Mr O couldn't have avoided seeing the information about the criteria when 
he applied for the credit card account. It says its staff wouldn't have known about Mr O's 
previous credit card account as it was closed when he attended the branch. Nationwide as a 
gesture of goodwill refunded interest and waived two months interest.
Mr O brought his complaint to us and our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
looked at the information and process Mr O would have followed when applying for the credit 
card, and thought he would have seen the relevant condition on more than one occasion.
Mr O doesn't accept that view and has provided a series of screenshots showing the 
process he followed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that Nationwide hasn't made a mistake or acted unfairly.
I have looked at the process Mr O would have followed when he applied for the credit card. 
Having done so, I'm satisfied that Nationwide makes clear at a number of stages that the 
introductory offer is not available for customers whom have held a nationwide credit card 
within the last 12 months. There is no dispute here that Mr O held such a card, and so I'm 
satisfied Nationwide acted fairly be deciding he wasn't eligible for the offer.
I appreciate Mr O says he wasn't told that. But I have looked at the evidence he has 
provided and I can see that the screenshots says that applicants must check if eligible for 
any offers. And in the second set of screen shots, I can see that it clearly says previous 
account holders (in the last 12 months )are not eligible for introductory offers. I find in those 
circumstances that Nationwide hasn't made a mistake or acted unfairly. 
I don't think Nationwide's staff made a mistake in branch as I don't think they would have 
known about Mr O previously having had a credit card account without an application being made.
Overall, as I don't think Nationwide has misled Mr O or acted unfairly, I can't order it to do 
anything further in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman