DRN-3290381
The complaint
Mrs D complains that One Call Insurance Services Limited gave her incorrect information 
about cancellation charges for her motor insurance policy. She wants a refund of the extra 
amount she paid to amend her policy.
What happened
Mrs D moved house and on the same day contacted One Call to change the address on her 
policy. She was told that she would need to pay an additional premium of £348.25, including 
One Calls £39.99 administration fee. Mrs D was unhappy with this as her husband had paid 
£8.00 to change his address. Later the same day, Mrs D contacted One Call again and was 
told that if she wanted to cancel her policy, she would be charged £74.34, including One 
Calls cancellation fee. Mrs D asked for this to be noted on her policy.
But the next day, Mrs D contacted One Call again and was told that if she wanted to cancel 
her policy, then she would need to pay the remainder of the annual premium. This was over 
£600. So, two days later, Mrs D paid the change of address charge. 
One Call said Mrs D had been wrongly told that she would have to pay the full premium if 
she wanted to cancel. It said she had overpaid for the change of address by £39.99 as this 
was already included in the £348.25 quoted. So it refunded this amount in her monthly direct 
debits. But it didnt offer Mrs D the full refund at the time, which it said was incorrect. So it 
refunded this amount in full and paid her £75 compensation for her inconvenience. 
Mrs D remained unhappy as she thought if she had been given the correct information about 
cancelling her policy, then she would have done so and found cheaper cover elsewhere. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought One Call 
had provided incorrect information about the cancellation charge. He thought Mrs D had 
acted on this and changed her address rather than cancel and find cheaper cover 
elsewhere. So he thought One Call should pay Mrs D £100 further compensation. 
One Call replied that it had paid Mrs D compensation for giving her incorrect information 
about the cancellation costs. It said that on the day Mrs D paid for the change of address, 
she had been given the correct information about the cancellation costs. And so it thought 
she had sufficient information to make an informed choice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One Call said Mrs D had been given enough information about the costs to make her choice 
about whether to pay for the change of address, cancel her policy, or change to a different 
insurer. But I disagree. Ill now explain why I say this.
I think One Call firstly gave Mrs D correct information about the costs for changing her 
address. I think Mrs D misunderstood that the costs didnt include One Calls mid-term 
adjustment charge. Then, later the same day, One Call gave Mrs D the correct information 
about the costs of cancellation, and the costs of a new policy with a new insurer.
But the following day, the representative told her incorrectly that she would have to pay her 
premium in full if she wanted to cancel. I think this must have been very confusing for Mrs D. 
And I think she could reasonably rely on being given accurate information. 
When a business makes a mistake we expect it to restore the consumers position, as far as 
its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the error had on the consumer. One Call 
agreed it had made a mistake and it paid Mrs D £75 compensation for this error. I think that 
was fair and reasonable for the trouble and upset caused. But I dont think its enough to 
restore Mrs Ds position. 
Two days later, One Call said it gave Mrs D correct information about the costs for changing 
her address and if she went with another insurer on its panel. I cant see that Mrs D then 
asked again about the costs of cancelling her policy. But I think she had already reasonably 
decided, based on the incorrect information, that this wasnt a viable alternative. 
I agree that Mrs D had been previously provided with correct information about the 
cancellation costs. And she could have checked this in her policy documents. But Mrs D was 
moving house and I think she probably had enough things to do. And so I think she 
reasonably relied on the most recent information she had been provided by One Call. 
So, rather than pay the cancellation costs and find cheaper cover elsewhere, I think Mrs D 
decided on the basis of the incorrect information provided that she would pay for the change 
of address. 
Mrs D hasnt kept the alternative quotes she found for cover with other insurers. And so I 
cant see what she would have saved if she had chosen this alternative. But think One Calls 
misinformation caused her loss. And I agree with the Investigator that, in the absence of 
further information, £100 compensation for this is fair and reasonable to restore her position. 
Putting things right
I require One Call Insurance Services Limited to pay Mrs D £100 further compensation for 
the impact caused by its incorrect administration of her policy.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require One 
Call Insurance Services Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman