DRN-3821258
The complaint
Mrs B complains Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) unfairly declined to settle 
her claim on her motor insurance policy after her car was stolen.
What happened
Whilst Mrs B was in the process of unloading her shopping from her car it was stolen from 
the drive of her house.
Mrs B made a claim on her motor insurance policy that she held with Admiral. It was 
declined. Admiral said because she had left her car unlocked with the boot open when she 
unloaded her shopping to her house, she had not protected her vehicle from loss or damage 
as per the terms and conditions of the policy. And as a direct result of her failure to adhere to 
the agreement it had rejected her claim. 
 As Mrs B was not happy with Admiral, she brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They looked into the case and did not think that 
Admiral had fairly relied on the policy conditions. They did not believe it was unreasonable 
for Mrs B to leave her car open whilst she was unloading groceries. They said it was not 
clear how the car was stolen as both sets of keys were in the house and therefore the car 
being unlocked wasnt connected with the theft
As Admiral is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for 
a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I checked the terms and conditions of the policy and on page 21 it says;
General Conditions of your cover
1. Your duties
The cover in this policy is valid providing:
You or any other insured person have kept to all the terms and conditions of the policy.
3. Care of your vehicle
You and any other insured person must:
protect your vehicle from loss or damage
make sure your vehicle is roadworthy
remove and secure any keys or device that allows access to your vehicle; if it is left 
unoccupied
Admiral said it had rejected Mrs Bs claim because she failed to protect her vehicle from loss 
or damage. It said cover was not provided as a direct result of her failure to adhere to the 
terms. It said the car was unattended and unlocked which is a clear breach of the policy 
conditions.
I have considered if it is fair for Admiral to rely on this condition in these circumstances and if 
it was fair to decline the claim. 
I reviewed the circumstances of the theft. The car was parked on Mrs Bs drive and was 
stolen by an unknown person whilst she was inside the house. 
Mrs B said she was unloading the shopping, and her children, from her car. She said it is not 
reasonable to take bags out of the boot, put the bags down, close the boot, lock the car, go 
into the house. And then come back out, unlock the car again, open the boot again and then 
get more bags out. She said the keys to the car had been taken out and she would have 
locked the car once everything was inside.
 
I agree the car was unattended and unlocked whilst Mrs B was unloading her shopping. 
However, Admiral also needs to consider if Mrs B was reckless in doing this. 
I do not think it is unusual or unreasonable for the car to be left open and unlocked whilst 
unpacking her shopping from it and taking them inside the house. The car was not on a 
public road. I saw images of the house, and the drive is private. The car was parked well 
away from the start of the drive and would not be easily seen from the road. 
I accept the car was left unlocked, but I do not consider that Mrs B was reckless in leaving 
the car unlocked and open whilst she carried out this every-day task.  
The evidence shows someone entering the car and driving away within a few seconds. It is 
possible that the thief used technology to start the car. This is not unknown or unusual. 
Admiral said it does not think that the car was started by an electronic device. However it 
was not started by its keys as Mrs B sent both sets of the keys back to Admiral, therefore I 
think it is likely that an electronic relay device was used to start it as typically, these types of 
thefts take seconds rather than minutes.
As the car has not been recovered there is no evidence available that determines how the 
car engine was started by the unknown thief. 
After considering the circumstances leading up to the theft, and that the car was parked at 
the back of Mrs Bs house, I do not think it is likely that it being left unlocked was connected 
with the theft. And therefore, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint and require Admiral to settle her 
claim under the remaining terms of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.
I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to settle Mrs Bs claim for the theft of her car 
under the remaining terms of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman