DRN-3590399
The complaint
Mr W complains that Macci Limited trading as Coversure Insurance Services (Hyde) didnt 
ask him about modifications to his car when he took out a motor insurance policy through it. 
And so he wasnt covered when his car was stolen. Mr W wants compensation for this.
 
What happened
Mr W took out a policy through Coversure over the phone. A recording of this call isnt 
available. Mr W said he wasnt asked about modifications to his car, though Coversure said 
he would have been. When Mr Ws car was stolen, the insurer said it wouldnt have offered 
cover if the modifications had been disclosed and declined the claim. Mr W said Coversure 
should have asked him to disclose the modifications, but it hadnt done so. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr W had said he 
wasnt aware of the modifications, so he thought he wouldnt have disclosed these if he had 
been asked about them. He saw that Mr W had been sent a Statement of Fact that said the 
car had no modifications. And so he couldnt say that Coversure had done anything wrong. 
Mr W replied that if he had been asked about modifications, he would have asked further 
questions to reply correctly. Mr W asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
Ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about the theft and about Mr W and his familys current circumstances. I 
can see that hes also raised a separate complaint against the insurer about the declined 
claim. But I cant consider that here as its a separate business to Coversure. Instead, Ill 
consider the sales process and the actions of the broker, Coversure.
The dispute is over whether or not Coversure asked Mr W about modifications to his car.   
Mr W said he wasnt aware of any, but if he had been asked a question, then he would have 
asked for clarification. Coversure said it would have asked about modifications alongside 
other details of the car.
Unfortunately, the recording of the sales call cant be located. Coversure said the call may 
have been dropped or it hasnt been retained. So I cant listen to the call to hear what was 
discussed. But I cant penalise Coversure for not being able to provide evidence to 
investigate a complaint. Instead, I have to rely on the evidence available, including Mr Ws 
testimony.  
Ive looked at Coversures file notes and can see that when the policy was taken out over the 
phone, various questions would have been asked. But the specific questions werent 
recorded. The only comment relevant to this complaint is vehicle details confirmed with 
drivers. Coversure said this would have included the make, model, value and any changes. 
I think these are standard questions that a broker would ask when raising a quotation. 
So I think its more likely than not that Mr W was asked about the modifications. Mr W 
doesnt recall this. But hes also said he was unaware of any changes made to the car, and 
so I think its most likely he would have answered No when asked about them. 
The Statement of Fact was posted out the same day. This stated that the car had no 
modifications. But I can understand that, due to postal upsets during the pandemic, Mr W 
wouldnt have received this before his car was stolen a few days later. But even if he had 
received it, I dont think he would have corrected it as he has maintained that he didnt know 
the car had been modified. 
So I have no evidence to show that Coversure made an error during the sales process that 
led to Mr W not disclosing the modifications to his car. In that case, I cant require Coversure 
to compensate Mr W for his losses. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman