DRN-4275716
The complaint
Miss W, who is the executor for the estate of the late Miss S, has complained that N.I.I.B. 
Group Limited trading as Northridge Finance (Northridge) gave an incorrect settlement 
figure for an agreement taken out to acquire a car.
What happened
In March 2020, Miss S acquired a car using a hire purchase agreement with Northridge.
Miss S passed away in October 2022. Miss W was appointed executor for the late Miss S 
estate in November 2022.
Miss W was aware there was a financial sum outstanding in connection to the car and so 
wanted to understand what her options were. Northridge responded in October 2022. Within 
it, there was the option to settle the agreement in full and they provided a settlement figure of 
£6,003.15, which was valid for 30 days.
Miss W said she intended to sell the car to a third-party dealership who would then settle the 
finance. But in order to do so, Miss W said the dealership would only accept a settlement 
figure provided by the lender if it was on letterhead paper.
During a call with Northridge in November 2022, Miss W complained to them. Among other 
things, Miss W said she was unhappy with Northridges processes and how they wouldnt 
provide a settlement figure over the phone, but only in writing by post initially. She was also 
unhappy that Northridge provided her with an incorrect settlement figure.
Miss W said Northridge eventually emailed her the settlement figure and confirmed to her it 
was the same figure given in October 2022. The settlement figure was also sent to her in the 
post, alongside being sent by email. But in one of the settlement quotations sent to Miss W, 
the settlement figure was £6,003.51.
Miss W sent the dealership the settlement figure of £6,003.51 as this was the figure provided 
with a letterhead.
A purchase agreement form completed by the dealership and Miss W had the sum of 
£6,003.51 recorded as the settlement figure. 
Miss W believed she had given the third-party dealership the incorrect settlement figure and 
in turn, since the car had been sold, she believed Northridge had received more funds than 
they should have to settle the agreement.
Northridge responded to Miss W. They said, in October 2022, they generated a settlement 
quotation of £6,003.15. However, in an email sent to Miss W, the settlement figure quoted 
was £6,003.51. Northridge said, given the difference in pence, it was a typo. They said they 
received the correct amount to settle the account.
Miss W remained unhappy with Northridges response and felt they hadnt adequately 
addressed her complaint points. She said she found the whole situation stressful and so 
referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator found that Northridge didnt need to do anything to put things right. In 
summary, he acknowledged Northridge sent Miss W an incorrect settlement figure. He went 
on to say Northridge said it was a typo and they confirmed the correct amount was received 
to settle the agreement. Our investigator later found that Northridge generated a preferential 
settlement of £6,003.15 in October 2022. And Northridge later confirmed to our service the 
amount they had received to settle the agreement was £6,003.51 in November 2022.
Our investigator still didnt think Northridge needed to do anything, as Northridge explained 
that when they generated the settlement amount in October 2022, they did not apply the full 
charge they should have, which would have resulted in a settlement figure of £6,052.08. 
Northridge said in normal circumstances, they should have calculated the settlement figure 
taking into account the deferred settlement date, but this could be waived where it was 
deemed appropriate. They said they had done so on this occasion, given the circumstances 
of bereavement. And by doing so, they had generated the lowest settlement figure possible, 
which was around £48 less than what would have been normally required. 
 
Miss W disagreed when the investigator shared his findings with her. She said, among other 
things, that she didnt think Northridge took into consideration the date of the late Miss S 
passing, nor when they were notified of her passing. Miss W believed she had previously 
been given the settlement figure of £6,052.08 over the phone which she queried, and it 
wasnt addressed in this manner then. 
And so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. And Ill explain why below.
First of all, I would like to express my condolences to Miss W on the passing of the late Miss 
S. I do appreciate that dealing with this issue must have been difficult and I want to reassure 
Miss W I have taken this into consideration when reaching my decision.
However, if theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to 
reach what I think is a fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
This complaint is about a hire purchase agreement in the late Miss S name taken out with 
Northridge which is a regulated financial product. As such, we are able to consider 
complaints about it.
It isnt in dispute an incorrect settlement figure had been given to Miss W. Northridge has 
accepted it did and explained to Miss W that it was likely sent in error, and due to a typo in 
communication sent to her. Miss W believed the settlement figure should have been 
£6,003.15. It has later transpired that to settle the agreement, £6,003.51 was paid. 
Northridge has also confirmed this. So, overall, it seems that an additional 36 pence has 
been paid.In this instance and for me to reach a fair and reasonable outcome, I need to consider what 
impact this mistake has had, if any, and whether the estate has suffered any financial loss.
Miss W believes Northridge has received more funds than they should have to settle the 
agreement. But it has later transpired that Northridge, when they had generated the figure in 
October 2022, hadnt taken into account the deferment of settlement date. This meant that 
Northridge had generated a settlement figure which was around £48 less than they should 
have generated. So, while Northridge did receive 36 pence more than they should have, I 
am still mindful that it is around £48 less than they could have charged.
Miss W says she was previously given the figure of £6,052.08 during a call she held with 
them, which she queried, and she says it wasnt addressed in this manner then. Northridge 
has provided us a screen shot of their internal systems and I can see the settlement figure of 
£6,052.08 was generated in November 2022. I cant be sure why Northridge generated this 
new settlement figure, and then chose to confirm the correct one was the same as that 
provided in October 2022. But, it is likely it was due to Miss W querying the figure provided. I 
also cant be sure why Northridge didnt explain to Miss W why they chose to accept the 
settlement figure they generated in October 2022, rather than the one in November 2022. 
But, I dont think I need to make a finding on this point to be able to reach what I think would 
be a fair and reasonable outcome.
I accept an incorrect figure was quoted to Miss W when requested. But I dont think this in 
itself is enough to warrant compensation to be awarded. I say this because, in this instance, 
no financial loss was suffered to the estate as Northridge didnt charge the higher amount 
they could have. And also, the estate is not a person for the purposes of a complaint; it 
cannot be distressed, and so I dont think an award for compensation is appropriate.
There are aspects to this complaint which I am not able to comment on. How Northridge 
conduct their complaint handling process isnt something I can review as we are not a 
regulatory body.
Considering everything here, and what I consider to be fair and reasonable, I dont think 
Northridge need to do anything to put things right. I hope that setting things out as Ive done 
helps to explain how Ive reached my conclusions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Miss 
S to accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman