DRN-3674353
The complaint
Ms M and Mr R have complained that First Holiday Finance Ltd (FHF) unfairly turned down 
their claims made under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In March 2011, Ms M and Mr R bought timeshare membership points from a timeshare 
provider, enabling them to exchange those points for holiday accommodation. The points 
cost £10,795 and Ms M and Mr R paid for this by trading in another membership and 
borrowing £6,300 from FHF over twelve years. The loan was repaid in February 2015.
In February 2022, Ms M and Mr R made a claim to FHF using a professional representative 
(AS). In summary, the basis of the claim was as follows:
There were misrepresentations made about the timeshare and loan that FHF were 
jointly liable for under s.75 CCA.
There were unfair terms in the timeshare agreement and breaches of consumer 
protection legislation during the sale, that meant the debtor-creditor relationship 
between Ms M and Mr R and FHF was also unfair as per s.140A CCA. Further, the 
whole transaction was illegal as the timeshare was sold as an investment in 
contravention of both European and UK law.
At the time of the sale, the timeshare provider was not authorised by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) to broker loans. This meant there was a breach of s.27 of 
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and the loan was 
unenforceable.
Ms M and Mr R have said that they do not remember any affordability assessment 
being carried out. AS alleges on their behalf that no checks were done and so the 
lending was irresponsible.
The timeshare provider was now in liquidation, so Ms M and Mr R were unable to 
recover any amounts they may be awarded by a Spanish court.
To put things right, Ms M and Mr R asked for a refund of everything paid under the loan 
agreement plus interest.
FHF responded to the claim. It pointed out that the timeshare in question was governed by 
English, and not Spanish law, and the Spanish law referred to did not apply in this case. It 
also said that the arguments advanced by AS related to a completely different membership 
type to the one Ms M and Mr R actually bought. It did answer some of the allegations made 
about unfair contract terms and misrepresentations, but also said that the complaint had 
been made too late. FHF also treated the claim as a complaint, so it said that if Ms M and Mr 
R were not happy with its response, they could bring their claim to our service, which they 
did.1 
1 FHF said any complaint brought to our service might have been made outside of the time limits that 
apply to our services ability to consider complaints, but that it was a matter for our service to 
determine.
One of our investigators issued a view on Ms M and Mr Rs complaint, saying that she did 
not think FHF needed to do anything further. In summary, she said:
Under the rules that govern how our service can consider complaints, the complaints 
about the s.75 and s.140A CCA claims were made in time to our service.
However, FHF had, and has, complete defences to those claims as they were made 
outside of the limitation periods set out in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA).
The timeshare provider held the appropriate Office of Fair Trading (OFT) license at 
the time of the sale as the FCA did not regulate the sale of these loans at the time.
There was no evidence to suggest the loan was unaffordable for Ms M and Mr R.
The fact that the timeshare provider is now in liquidation does not mean its 
customers are not getting what they should under the agreement.
AS responded on Ms M and Mr Rs behalf. It reiterated concerns about the way the 
timeshare had been sold and pointed to an English judgment that it said meant the 
timeshare agreement was unfair. AS said something different about the timeshare suppliers 
authorisation to broker loans. It was accepted that the provider was authorised to broker 
loans, but it was now said that suppliers sales staff were self-employed and therefore not 
authorised to carry out regulated activities and it pointed to another English judgment it said 
was relevant. But AS then went on to also say the timeshare provider was not authorised to 
broker loans.2  AS said that no affordability checks were carried out, which was a breach of 
parts of the FCA Handbook. Finally, AS said that Ms M and Mr R were not advised that FHF 
paid commission to the timeshare provider, which was a further breach of the FCA 
Handbook.
FHF responded to say, amongst other things, that the actual person involved in Ms M and 
Mr Rs sale was employed by the timeshare provider and the right OFT authorisations were 
in place. It also confirmed that no commission was paid to the timeshare provider.
As the parties did not agree with our investigators view, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AS has raised a number of different issues of complaint, so I have considered each in turn.
The claims under s.75 and s.140A CCA
Our investigator thought we had the power to consider the complaints raised about FHFs 
assessment of these claims. I agree with our investigators assessment and for the same 
reasons. But, as I cannot see that FHF disagreed with our investigator about this, I do not 
need to set those out in detail.
Ms M and Mr R have made two claims against FHF under s.75 and s.140A CCA. Both of 
these claims are legal causes of action, so it is important to consider any defence that FHF 
may have to the claims.
S.75 CCA is a provision that makes a lender, in certain circumstances, jointly liable for a 
suppliers misrepresentations or breaches of contract where the credit was used to pay for 
the suppliers goods or services. It is not in dispute that s.75 CCA applies in Ms M and 
2 These two arguments are contradictory. However, I will deal with both arguments in my decision.Mr Rs case.
Here Ms M and Mr R have said that the nature of the timeshare was misrepresented by the 
timeshare provider. A claim against the timeshare provider would be covered by s.2 LA, so 
the limitation period expired six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. 
And in any like claim against FHF, the same limitation defence would apply.
The date on which the cause of action accrued was the point in time Ms M and Mr R entered 
into the agreement to buy the timeshare, as it was at that time they entered into an 
agreement based on alleged misrepresentations and suffered a loss. It follows that the 
cause of action accrued in March 2011 and Ms M and Mr R had until March 2017 to bring 
any claim. But no claim was made until February 2022, which was outside of the time limits 
set out in the LA. So FHF acted fairly in turning down the misrepresentation claim.
The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA too and the time for limitation purposes starts 
to run from the date the credit agreement ends. Here Ms M and Mr R are asking for a refund 
of payments, so s.9 LA applies, meaning any claim had to be made within six years of 
February 2015. But as Ms M and Mr R did not do that, I think FHF acted fairly in turning 
down the s.140A CCA claim.
As I think the s.140A claim was raised too late, I make no findings on how the timeshare 
came to be sold or whether any commission was paid as those form part of the assessment 
to be undertaken under s.140A CCA.
Was the timeshare provider an authorised broker?
At the time of sale, the regulation of consumer credit was performed by the OFT and not the 
FCA and I have seen that the timeshare provider had the requisite authority. So I think AS 
was mistaken it said the broker lacked the proper authority.
I have also considered the allegation that the sales staff were not employees of the 
timeshare provider. FHF has confirmed that the sales representative that dealt with Ms M 
and Mr Rs sale was employed by the timeshare provider and had undertaken training in 
brokering sales. I have no reason to doubt this, so I do not think the brokering of the FHF 
loan was unauthorised.
Were the right affordability checks carried out at the time of sale?
Ms M and Mr R have said that they do not recall any checks being carried out at the time of 
sale and AS says this means the lending was irresponsible. Our investigator said that she 
could not see any evidence that Ms M and Mr R found the loan unaffordable.
When considering a complaint about unaffordable lending, a large consideration is whether 
the complainant has actually lost out due to any failings on the part of the lender. So, if FHF 
did not do appropriate checks (and I make no such finding), for me to say it needed to do 
something to put things right, I would need to see that Ms M and Mr R lost out as a result of 
its failings. Ms M and Mr R have provided no evidence whatsoever that they would have 
found, nor found, it difficult to repay the loan, so I do not need to consider this point further.
The effect of the timeshare provider being in liquidation
Our investigator did not think that the timeshare provider being in liquidation meant Ms M 
and Mr R were not able to get the things they were entitled to under the timeshare 
agreement. In response, I cannot see that Ms M and Mr R have made any claim that the 
agreement was breached. Rather, I think the complaint is that, as the company is in liquidation, it could not pay any sums awarded by a Spanish court. But I am not aware of any 
proceedings taken out against the timeshare provider in Spain that FHF could be liable for. 
So I cannot see how FHF could be responsible for covering anything amounts awarded in 
Spain, irrespective of the status of the timeshare provider.
Conclusion
For the reasons set out above, I do not think there is any reason to uphold the complaint 
made by Ms M and Mr R for any of the reasons advanced.
I was also referred to another decision I have issued in another consumers complaint. But 
each complaint is decided on its own merits, so I do not think that other decision means 
Ms M and Mr Rs complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Ms M and Mr Rs complaint against First 
Holiday Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman