DRN-3492272
The complaint
Ms D complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of her claim following an accident, 
under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Ms D was involved in a car accident in February 2021 and reported this to Aviva. She says 
that its handling of the claim was very poor and required regular chasing on her part. 
Aviva arranged for repairs to Ms Ds car. Ms D says she raised concerns that the car should 
be repaired at the approved manufacturers garage. She contacted the manufacturer herself 
to make sure Avivas approved repairer could do the work as her car was leased. She found 
that it was, as long as the work was completed to the expected standard. But she had 
expected Aviva to check this for her. 
Ms D says her car had to be returned on three occasions due to issues with the work. 
Shortly after the repairs were completed, whilst she was driving, a suspension spring 
became detached and embedded itself in the wheel housing. This was distressing for Ms D 
and her family and meant staying over at a relatives house and arranging for the car to be 
towed back home the next day. 
An engineer confirmed the problem with the suspension was related to the repairs Aviva had 
completed. It subsequently arranged for the further repairs. Ms D says it was agreed the 
repairs would take place at an approved manufacturers garage. Yet she received a call from 
the garage that did the original repairs, asking her to arrange for her car to be booked in. 
She says this caused more disruption and inconvenience to sort out. 
Ms D says she wasnt told her child car seats needed to be replaced after the accident. She 
was without a car for a period of time until a hire car was provided. And this was delayed 
whilst Aviva considered if it was responsible for the repairs to the suspension spring.   
Aviva apologised for not advising about the child seats and paid the cost of the 
replacements. It acknowledged the initial repair issues with its garage and apologised for the 
subsequent suspension failure. It offered £100 for the ten-day period it says Ms D was 
without a hire car. And in recognition of the repair issues, delays, and the need to chase 
progress, it offered £150 compensation. 
Ms D didnt think this was fair and referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
upheld her complaint. Because of the trouble and upset caused by the poor claim handling 
and defective repairs, he thought £300 compensation was fairer. This was in addition to the 
£100 payment for the time without a hire car. 
Aviva disagreed. It thought the compensation it had offered was adequate. Our investigator 
didnt change his mind. So, Aviva asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint. 
Its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold Ms Ds complaint. Let me explain. 
Ms D has described how the accident she was involved in was distressing for her and her 
family. She expected Aviva as her insurer to handle her claim efficiently and arrange for the 
repairs to be carried out. I have read thought the claim notes and emails provided to 
understand what happened here.
Aviva arranged for the repairs to Ms Ds car to be completed at one of its approved garages. 
I acknowledge Ms D had concerns that this wasnt a garage approved by her car 
manufacturer. She contacted the manufacturer to discuss this because her car was leased. I 
understand the manufacturer told Ms D that Avivas garage could carry out the work. 
Although I understand Ms D had concerns about the garage, I dont think its been shown 
that Aviva acted unfairly by appointing its approved garage to carry out the repairs. Or that it 
shouldve contacted the manufacturer. 
That said, we expect the insurer to take responsibility for the quality of the work where this is 
completed by its chosen repairer. Ms D describes how the work wasnt of a satisfactory 
standard and this meant it had to be returned to the repairer on three separate occasions. I 
can see this relates to issues with the quality of the repairs and the painting that had been 
carried out. 
Aviva doesnt dispute the repair work wasnt of a satisfactory quality. And that this required 
further repair attempts on the three occasions highlighted by Ms D. In its final response to 
her complaint it apologised for the repair issues she had faced from its approved repairer, 
and for the time she spent chasing it. 
Once the repairs were complete to the standard Ms D was satisfied with  there was a 
further incident where a suspension spring became detached whilst she was driving. I can 
understand that this was a worrying incident for Ms D with her family in the car, including her 
children. Ms D explains that they stayed over at a relatives house that night and she had to 
arrange for the car to be towed home as it was undrivable. 
I can understand why Ms D and her family were distressed by this incident it must have been 
upsetting when the suspension spring failed and caused inconvenience and disruption to 
their plans.
From the information provided, I can see that Aviva arranged for an inspection of the 
damaged suspension spring. This was to understand whether the damage had been caused 
by something its repairer had done. The inspector confirmed it was as a result of the repairs. 
Ms D explains that she didnt want the same garage to repair the suspension spring because 
of the issues she had experienced. I think this was a reasonable request in the 
circumstances. It was subsequently agreed that the repairs would be completed at the 
manufacturers approved garage. However, Ms D says the original garage again contacted 
her to book a time for it to carry out the repairs. This meant further contact for Ms D with 
Aviva to resolve matters. 
Ms D was without a car whilst awaiting the repairs to the suspension spring. I understand 
that Aviva wanted to establish the damage was its responsibility to repair. I think this was 
reasonable in the circumstances. But it has been established that its repairer was at fault for this issue. Because of this I think it was fair that the business offered a payment to 
acknowledge the loss of use of Ms Ds vehicle for this period, up until the point a hire car 
was made available. 
We take a similar approach to that which Aviva used. That is to say we think a payment of 
£10 per day for the loss of use of the car for the period in question is fair. This is intended to 
compensate for reasonable transport costs during the period a car wasnt available. In these 
circumstances I think this approach is fair and Avivas offer is in line with what our service 
considers reasonable.  
I note Ms Ds comments that the hire car she was given was smaller than her car. She has 
two small children and needs space for strollers and other items. An alternative hire car was 
subsequently arranged that suited Ms D better. But this was a further issue she had to deal 
with, and I can understand why she found this stressful.
Ms D only became aware, several months after the accident, that she needed to replace her 
childrens car seats. She thought this was something Aviva should have told her.    
Ive read Ms Ds policy terms. Its clear the cost of replacement child seats is covered in 
these circumstances. I note that Aviva apologised for not telling Ms D the seats needed 
replacing and has paid this cost.   
In its final response to Ms Ds complaint Aviva offered Ms D £150 compensation for the 
issues with the repairs, the suspension spring, the delays and for the need to chase 
progress. I have thought about the impact all of this had on Ms D and whether Avivas offer 
is fair in these circumstances. 
The accident must have been distressing for Ms D and her family. This isnt Avivas fault  
but it was expected to handle her claim fairly and reasonably. The initial repairs proved 
unsatisfactory and this meant the car was returned three times for remedial work. I accept 
that problems will occur from time to time, but I dont think its reasonable for Ms D to have 
needed to return her car three times because of defective work. This clearly made a difficult 
situation worse and caused distress and inconvenience for Ms D and her family. This was 
exacerbated by the lack of clear and timely communication, which necessitated Ms D 
contacting Aviva numerous times.
Ms D and her family were further impacted due to the suspension spring failure. This was 
linked to the initial repair work and meant more time without their car and hassle trying to 
sort out repairs and a hire car. For the period she was without a hire car Ms D describes the 
difficulties created in taking her son to nursery and carrying out tasks including food 
shopping. 
Having considered all of this, I think Aviva couldve handled Ms Ds claim better. It caused 
her distress and significant inconvenience as a result of its failings. Aviva is responsible for 
the work its approved garage carried out in these circumstances. In light of this I dont think 
the compensation Ms D was offered is fair and I think this should be increased to £300. This 
is in addition to the £100 payment in relation to the hire car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Aviva Insurance Limited should:
pay £300 compensation, in total, to Ms D for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused her; and pay Ms D £100 for the loss of use of her car.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman