DRN-3538417
The complaint
Ms L complained about how Acromas Insurance Company Limited handled things under her 
roadside assistance policy when her vehicle broke down in Europe.
What happened
Ms L was on holiday in Europe in her campervan when it broke down. Acromas 
arranged for it to be put back on the road, either at the roadside, or by a local garages, 
including by a manufacturer garage. Acromas later agreed to return her campervan to 
the UK when it became clear that it could not be repaired. 
Ms L felt that Acromas should have returned her campervan to the UK much earlier. 
She said that their actions ruined her holiday and caused her stress and 
inconvenience. She wanted them to compensate her for this and for not being able to 
go on another later holiday as she had used up the number of days she could remain 
in Europe under visa requirements. 
She felt that they had treated her less favourably because she was retired than if she 
had been on a two-week family holiday. She also wanted us to recommend to insurers 
that they should not accept a vehicle for a recovery service abroad for a vehicle 
without understanding the vehicle and being able to offer a specialist assistance 
service. Ms L also felt that Acromas didnt properly investigate her complaint.
Acromas said theyd done all they could in the circumstances and denied having 
treated her less favourably than anyone else. 
The investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. He thought 
that Acromas were not obliged to bring her campervan back to the UK at an earlier 
stage and they had acted reasonably and in line with their policy. Ms L didnt agree, 
and Ive been asked to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L felt that insurers should not accept a vehicle for a recovery service abroad without 
being able to provide the right assistance for it and that we should make 
recommendations about that. However its not our role to make recommendations of this 
nature to a business. Its a commercial decision for a business to decide what vehicle they 
offer to cover for roadside assistance, and thats not something we would generally 
interfere with. Instead we look at individual complaints and decide if the business acted 
fairly and reasonably.  
Ms Ls campervan first broke down in Europe in early September. Acromas arranged to get it 
back on the road. About three weeks later, on 27 September, it broke down again. Acromas 
got it started but a few days later it broke down again. Acromas couldnt fix it at the roadside 
so they arranged for it to be sent to a specialist manufacturer garage to obtain the best 
possible diagnosis. The manufacturer garage got the campervan working , but it broke down 
again on about 9 October 2021, and the next garage couldnt fix it immediately. At this point, 
it was clear that Ms Ls campervan wouldnt be fixed before Ms L said she and her husband 
had to return to the UK. So Acromas arranged and paid for them to return home, as that was 
covered by the policy. In the meantime her campervan remained at the garage until Ms L 
went back to Europe to collect it. When the campervan still wasnt working, Acromas agreed 
to return it to the UK, where they delivered it to a garage of her choice. She said they 
diagnosed the problem right away and fixed it in 24 hours. 
While in Europe, Ms L was unhappy that Acromas wouldnt tell her how many breakdowns 
it would take before Acromas returned the campervan home. Its clear she was concerned 
about this and asked them about it after the first few breakdowns. She said her campervan 
was a 1970s specialist model and she knew that the garages in Europe wouldnt be able to 
fix it, not even the manufacturer garage, as it wasnt a modern vehicle. She felt that 
Acromas wouldnt listen to her about that, and they Acromas should have known it would 
break down again and so should have returned it to the UK much earlier. Ms L said she 
expected that the European roadside assistance would operate similarly to the way it does 
in the UK, and that Acromas would get her campervan home if they couldnt get it working. 
However Ive looked at her policy and see that Acromas made it clear that the 
roadside service they offered in Europe was not the same as that they offered in the 
UK. It differed in a number of ways, which they set out in the policy. In particular 
Acromas did not have their own patrol network nor their own network of approved 
repairers in Europe. The policy makes clear that , although Acromas would arrange for 
repairs to happen, Acromas were not responsible for the repairs.  
Acromas did explain to Ms L that they dont decide to return a vehicle to the UK 
according to how often it breaks down, but on the seriousness of each breakdown. 
They rely on roadside repairmen and garages professional opinions to diagnose the 
problem and repair a vehicle or recommend action to them. They would not return a 
vehicle that a garage tells them is driveable. The repairers did not say that the 
campervan was unrepairable and should be returned to the UK. We think its fair for 
Acromas to rely on these professional opinions and  recommendations in deciding 
what to do about her campervan. And, as the investigator explained to Ms L, recovery 
of a vehicle to the UK is an expensive option, so it is often a last resort, and we think it 
is reasonable for an insurer to exhaust other options to try to get a vehicle back on the 
road first. 
With the benefit of hindsight, we can see that there was series of breakdowns and 
intermittent fixes. But that doesnt mean that Acromas could or should have known at any 
one of those breakdowns that the campervan would keep on breaking down. Its not 
reasonable to attribute that to them. After the repairers got it working the first time , it was 
about three weeks before it happened again. They fixed it the first few times and got it 
back on the road. Once Acromas could no longer do that or fix it, they exercised their 
discretion to return it and I think that was fair.  
And though Acromas says that the UK garage was able to diagnose and repair her 
campervan very quickly, thats because it was a niche garage specialising in her 
specific make of campervan. Ms L thought that Acromas shouldnt have taken on the 
responsibility of breakdown insurance in Europe when it didnt understand it was a 
specialist vehicle which required a specialist to fix. But I think the policy is clear about 
what service Acromas can provide in Europe. It does not claim to offer a specialist 
service for specialist vehicles, and it is therefore up to a consumer to check that the 
policy suits their needs. There are many reasons for breakdowns that arent vehicle specific, and I dont think it was Acromas fault if garages local to where the 
breakdowns occurred were not necessarily familiar with her type of vehicle. They did 
get it to a manufacturer garage, so they did try their best to fix it. I also think that 
Acromas did properly consider her complaint. They listened to her and explained their 
reasons. 
I can see that Ms L was worried as while she had to remain in Europe while the campervan 
was being repaired, and then return to collect it, she said this was using up her allotted days 
in that country. Again, I dont think thats Acromas fault. They are not required to take a 
consumers individual visa circumstances into account. But as soon as Ms L said she and 
her husband had to get home, Acromas promptly arranged and paid for their travel home 
under the policy. Acromas also paid under the policy for their travel costs to return later to 
pick it up. 
She thinks that Acromas would have treated her with more urgency if she had been on a 
two-week family holiday. But Acromas deny that they treated her any differently because she 
was retired, and Ive seen no persuasive evidence that they did. The policy still wouldnt 
have required Acromas to return a vehicle to the UK in that time and as Ive said, when Ms L 
told Acromas she had to return home they arranged that very quickly. So I dont think that 
Acromas treated her unfavourably. 
I do see that this was a very stressful situation for Ms L and her husband. It was 
unfortunate that her campervan broke down, there were many uncertainties involved in 
trying to get it fixed, and travelling was more complicated due to the covid requirements 
then. But Acromas arent responsible for her campervan breaking down. They are only 
responsible for acting fairly and reasonably and in line with their policy, and I think they did 
that. That means that I dont require them to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
