DRN-3473492
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax declined their 
application for a new mortgage. As a result, they were unable to port (transfer) their 
mortgage interest rate product and incurred an early repayment charge (ERC) which they 
want Halifax to reimburse, along with valuation and product fees.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 19 January 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, 
so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. Secondly, what happened really isnt in 
dispute, so I dont need to analyse the events in order to determine why a complaint has 
been made. Finally, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any 
information that might lead to Mr and Mrs B being identified.
Mr and Mrs B had a mortgage with Halifax, originally taken out in 2014 when they borrowed 
just over £278,000 on a capital repayment basis. In December 2018 they borrowed an 
additional £120,000 on a capital repayment basis, which was on a fixed rate until 30 April 
2024. In May 2019 Mr and Mrs B took out a product transfer, for the original mortgage, 
switching it to a fixed rate until 31 July 2021. 
In February 2020, at the request of Mr and Mrs B, the entire mortgage was switched to 
interest-only. Mr and Mrs B told Halifax they wanted to free up income each month, and that 
their intended repayment vehicle was sale of the property. Halifax states that at the time the 
minimum income criteria was met because total joint income was in excess of £150,000, 
which was a requirement of Halifax for a joint mortgage on interest-only. The property was 
estimated to be worth £600,000 at the time, with about £278,700 outstanding on the 
mortgage.
The interest-only switch offer confirms that if the mortgage is repaid within the fixed-rate 
periods that applied to each sub-account, an ERC would be payable, on a tapering scale. 
The offer also says that the interest rate products can be transferred onto a new mortgage, 
subject to the terms and conditions in place at the time of the application.
In late 2020 Mr and Mrs B decided to move home and wanted to transfer their mortgage 
interest rate onto a new property. They applied through a mortgage broker for a new 
mortgage product. However, on the information provided, Mr and Mrs B didnt meet Halifaxs 
lending criteria for a new interest-only mortgage. As a result, Halifax wasnt able to offer 
Mr and Mrs B a mortgage. They went to another lender, repaid the mortgage to Halifax and 
also paid an ERC of almost £5,900.
Mr and Mrs B complained to Halifax. They said that their circumstances hadnt changed 
since the mortgage had been switched to interest-only in February 2020, so there was no 
logical basis on which Halifax could have refused their request to port the mortgage.
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint. In its final response letter Halifax explained that the 
repayment vehicles proposed by Mr and Mrs Bs broker didnt meet Halifaxs lending criteria. 
Halifax also said that there needed to be at least £300,000 equity in the new property, and 
the application fell short of this. As a result, Halifax wasnt able to agree to the new 
application.
Halifax didnt agree to refund the valuation fee, as this was a service that had been carried 
out. However, Halifax noted that Mr and Mrs B had paid the product fee up front, rather than 
adding it to the mortgage account. Halifax agreed to refund this.
Unhappy with Halifaxs response, Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that Halifax had fairly applied its lending 
criteria based on the information provided by Mr and Mrs Bs independent financial adviser 
(IFA). Having done so, the investigator thought Halifax had acted fairly and that it was 
entitled to decline the application where it didnt meet lending criteria.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the investigators findings. They maintain they were assured by 
Halifax at the time they switched their mortgage to interest-only in February 2020 that porting 
the mortgage would be no problem. Mr B, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, says 
that Halifaxs requirement that he and Mrs B needed to have £300,000 cash in the bank for 
three months prior to the application is ridiculous. Mr B also says that they wanted to borrow 
just under £280,000, against a valuation of £585,000, so there was more than £300,000 
equity in the property.
The investigator looked at the matter again. She noted that Mr and Mrs Bs IFA had keyed in 
18 applications for mortgage illustrations of various amounts but the application submitted 
was for a mortgage offer of just under £285,000, with the property valued at £580,000. In the 
circumstances, the investigator was satisfied that there wasnt sufficient equity in the 
property to meet Halifaxs requirements. The investigator also noted that the repayment 
vehicles proposed by the IFA didnt meet Halifaxs criteria. In addition, the income provided 
to Halifax by the IFA didnt meet the £150,000 threshold for an interest-only mortgage.
Mr and Mrs B asked for an ombudsman to issue a final decision on the complaint. Mr B 
insists he spoke to Halifax when it was confirmed to him that an application to port the 
interest rate product would not be a problem. Mr B insists that Halifax required £300,000 
held in cash in a bank account for three months before an interest-only mortgage could be 
approved and says the investigator hasnt addressed this. Mr B also says that the loan-to-
value (LTV) was less than 50%, and there was more than £300,000 equity in the property.
The investigator clarified that, if a cash lump sum was to be used as a repayment vehicle, 
then Halifax would require this to be held in a bank account for at least three months. 
However, the IFA was proposing cash released from business accounts as a repayment 
vehicle, along with other repayment proposals which didnt meet Halifaxs lending criteria.
Mr and Mrs B still didnt think Halifax had treated them fairly and wanted an independent 
review of the investigators findings. Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue 
a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive focussed on what I consider to be the important issues in the complaint, which our rules 
allow me to do. The crux of this complaint is that Mr and Mrs B believe Halifax has acted 
unfairly when, after agreeing to transfer their mortgage to interest-only in February 2020, the 
bank refused to allow them to transfer their interest rate product onto a new interest-only 
mortgage several months later.
Halifax is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that Halifax makes in respect of 
what those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular lending assessment, and 
whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are clearly discretionary matters for Halifaxs 
own commercial judgement that I would not interfere with.
Halifax has provided information about its lending criteria and about what was taken into 
account in its consideration of the application. Im entitled to treat this as confidential, 
because it is commercially sensitive. But after considering this information, Im satisfied that 
Halifax reached its lending decision fairly, after taking into account all relevant factors, 
including (but not limited to) affordability, exposure to risk, and Mr and Mrs Bs specific 
circumstances. Given this, Im satisfied that Halifax gave fair consideration to this application 
and so legitimately exercised its commercial judgement when deciding to decline the 
application.
I can see Mr Bs main focus is a phone calls to Halifax in the spring of 2020 and in 
September 2020 when he says he was assured that porting the mortgage wouldnt be a 
problem. Halifax doesnt have a record of the calls, so it is more likely than not that they 
were made to a general call centre, rather than to a Halifax mortgage adviser, and so no 
specific details of the account were taken to enable the calls to be recorded against the 
mortgage account records held on file. I think its also likely that Mr B was told that porting 
the mortgage shouldnt be a problem, particularly as hed only recently transferred it onto 
interest-only. 
But I am not persuaded Mr B was given any guarantee about porting, or that there was any 
detailed discussion about repayment vehicles or the requirement to hold savings in a bank 
account. I wouldnt expect a call handler to have discussed this on a general enquiry. So 
although I accept Mr B made the calls he said he made, Im not persuaded they have the 
impact he believes, nor does this affect the outcome of this complaint. The application was 
always subject to lending criteria, which is something Mr and Mrs Bs IFA should have 
advised them about before they began the application.
I dont know why 18 different mortgage illustrations were generated by Mr and Mrs Bs IFA. It 
is possible that the IFA was trying to make the information hed been given by Mr and Mrs B 
fit Halifaxs criteria.  I note that the application submitted was for an increased amount 
(£284,070) from the outstanding mortgage (£278,700) and over a longer term, as a result of 
which Halifax needed to assess income. The information provided by Mr and Mrs Bs IFA 
showed that income fell short of the required £150,000. 
Under mortgage regulations, if Mr and Mrs B had applied to port their mortgage on a like-for-
like basis, with the mortgage amount and term remaining the same, there would have been 
no requirement to verify income. It would still have been necessary for Halifax to clarify what 
the repayment vehicle was intended to be, because the existing repayment vehicle  which 
was a sale of the original property (which Mr and Mrs B were now selling)  would no longer 
be available. Any repayment vehicle would have needed to meet Halifaxs lending criteria.Im also satisfied that the valuation was £580,000 (not £585,000  that was the figure with 
improvements), and so on an application of £284,070, there was less than £300,000 equity 
in the property, which was another requirement for an interest-only mortgage.
I understand that Mr and Mrs B had bought this property intending it to be their long-term 
home, and so I dont think selling it to repay the interest-only mortgage at the end of the term 
was ever their intention. But in order to meet Halifaxs criteria for a sale of the mortgaged 
property as a repayment vehicle, Mr and Mrs B would have needed to meet the minimum 
joint income of £150,000 (which, as I have said above, on the information given by their IFA, 
they did not), and the property needed current equity of more than £300,000 (which it did 
not).  
If Mr and Mrs B had wanted to use a cash lump sum as their repayment vehicle, they would 
still have needed to meet the income criteria (which they did not). Halifax also required 
evidence that 100% of the interest-only amount was held in savings. This was a requirement 
of the bank, and so isnt something I have any power to interfere with.
The IFA provided Halifax with pension statements as proof of the repayment vehicles, but 
they only covered just under £30,000 of the capital. The IFA also proposed alternative 
repayment vehicles such as sale of a commercial property, a business savings account, 
money from Mr Bs business, and ad hoc overpayments. Halifax informed the IFA that these 
were not acceptable repayment vehicles.  Further pension projections provided by the IFA 
only covered about £38,000 of the £284,070 Mr and Mrs B wanted to borrow.
I dont know why the IFA submitted information to Halifax about repayment vehicles that he 
knew (or ought to have known) wouldnt be acceptable. The information about what 
repayment vehicles are allowed is on Halifaxs intermediaries portal, so I would have 
expected the IFA to be aware of these. Thats something Mr and Mrs B will need to take up 
with the IFA. Halifax was also entitled to rely on the information provided by the IFA about 
Mr and Mrs Bs income as accurate. 
Overall, Im satisfied Halifax considered the application fairly against its lending criteria. 
Having done so, Halifax was entitled to decline the application when it didnt meet those 
criteria. In the circumstances, the ERC was applied fairly, and so there is no basis on which I 
can reasonably say that Halifax should reimburse this to Mr and Mrs B.
Im also satisfied that the valuation fee isnt refundable. The valuation was carried out as part 
of the application process. I can see that Halifax has refunded the product fee, which is fair, 
given that it was paid upfront.
My final decision
I know Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed, but my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Jan O'LearyOmbudsman