DRN-3175031
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the level of early repayment charge (ERC) Nationwide 
Building Society has charged on their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W have a mortgage with Nationwide. They asked Nationwide to consider 
waiving the ERC if they redeemed their mortgage, but it wasnt willing to do so. 
Mr and Mrs W therefore incurred an ERC of 2% of their mortgage balance when they repaid 
the mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs W complained. They said they didnt think the level of the ERC was reasonable 
or reflected the costs Nationwide would incur if they ended the mortgage early. They also 
say that they had a savings account with more than the mortgage balance deposited with 
Nationwide (which they used to repay), so it is not making any losses when looking at their 
accounts as a whole.
Nationwide said that it considered its ERC to be reasonable, though it wouldnt share the 
detailed calculations with Mr and Mrs W. It later provided them to us. 
And in any case Nationwide said the ERC was clearly set out in the mortgage paperwork so 
that Mr and Mrs W could have factored it in when deciding whether to take the mortgage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage offer, from November 2017, came with a five year fixed rate, after 
which the mortgage would revert to Nationwides standard variable rate (SVR).
For the duration of the fixed rate, the offer says that an ERC will be payable if the mortgage 
ends. The ERC is on a sliding scale, at 5% of the mortgage balance in the first year and 
reducing to 1% in the fifth year of the fixed rate. 
Im satisfied that the nature of the ERC, how much it was and when it would apply was 
clearly set out, in the way the regulator expects, in the mortgage offer.
Mr and Mrs W asked Nationwide to waive the ERC because it wrote to them (about an 
unrelated matter to do with insurance) and in that letter said that it wanted to make sure that 
you and your family dont suffer any financial worries.
I dont think this correspondence was relevant to their mortgage or contained any kind of 
promise that Nationwide would waive the ERC specifically, or would more generally absorb 
costs rather than passing them on to Mr and Mrs W. 
Given that Mr and Mrs W had more than the mortgage balance in savings, and used those 
savings to pay off the mortgage, I dont think they were in financial difficulty. I appreciate 
they would have preferred not to have to pay the ERC when they redeemed the mortgage. 
But I dont think doing so caused them significant hardship, or that they were forced to repay 
the mortgage because it was unaffordable.
The purpose of an ERC is to protect the lender from the costs of the mortgage being repaid 
early. In very simple terms, a lender must raise the funds to lend to its customers from a 
variety of sources, including the wholesale money markets.
Theres a cost to the lender in raising the funds, which it recovers (with some profit) from the 
interest paid by its customers when it lends those funds on.
In order to be able to provide long term loans like mortgages, Nationwide has to commit to 
repaying the costs of its own fund raising over a long term. It therefore needs to be sure that 
it will be able to recover those costs when it lends the money out.
The purpose of a fixed rate is to give both borrower and lender stability. The borrower knows 
how much they will be required to pay for a fixed period, and the lender knows how much it 
will receive.
However, because circumstances can change over the course of a long term commitment, 
theres flexibility built in to allow the borrower to repay the mortgage early if they need (or 
choose) to. But early repayment reduces the income the lender will receive, and so it 
charges an ERC to compensate itself for the lost income caused by early repayment.
The regulator requires an ERC to be clearly set out  as a maximum cash value  in a 
mortgage offer. This gives the borrower certainty as to the most they could ever be asked to 
pay.
However, when it issues the offer, the lender cant know when  or even if  the individual 
borrower will repay early, or what the costs of that will be. 
It does know, from past experience and other information, what the average likelihood of 
early redemption is, and what the average cost of that would be.
None of these decisions are taken at the individual level; that wouldnt be practical. So the 
lender raises a block of funds to fund a group of mortgages. It knows what proportion of 
those borrowers are likely, on average, to repay early and what the costs of that would be. 
And it spreads that cost across each of the mortgages in the group so that if the predicted 
volume of early repayments happen, it will recover the costs of that. This is known as a 
pre-estimate of costs.
Nationwide has shared with us the calculations it made and the information that sits behind 
them. Its commercially sensitive, so Im satisfied its appropriate to keep this information 
confidential, as our rules allow. But it shows that Nationwide carried out calculations along 
the lines Ive set out above, and it shows that the ERC that resulted, and was added to 
Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage, was a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs of early redemption 
as apportioned across the group their mortgage was a part of.
For those reasons, the amount that Mr and Mrs W separately had in a savings account is not 
relevant to the costs incurred by Nationwide in funding or redeeming their mortgage.
Taking all that into account, Im satisfied that in this case, the ERC Nationwide charged was 
set on a fair basis. Im also satisfied that there was a genuine cost to Nationwide of Mr and 
Mrs W redeeming their mortgage early and that it wouldnt be fair to expect Nationwide to absorb that cost rather than pass it on to Mr and Mrs W. Mr and Mrs W took advantage of 
the facility to repay their mortgage early, knowing that there was a cost involved in doing so. 
Their mortgage operated as it should have done.
Mr and Mrs W also complain that Nationwide didnt explain this to them when they 
complained, and didnt initially provide the detailed explanation and information our 
investigator asked for. I think Nationwides answer to Mr and Mrs Ws initial complaint was a 
reasonable one, and it wasnt obliged to provide the detailed information they asked for. 
And while it was regrettable that it took so long for it to provide the information we asked for, 
I dont think that caused Mr and Mrs W any loss for which Nationwide should compensate 
them. Mr and Mrs W pursued their complaint, as was their right, but at the end of that the 
answer weve given them is much the same as the answer Nationwide gave at the start. The 
delay hasnt therefore deprived Mr and Mrs W of any redress or compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman