DRN-3299895
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that their credit files have been impacted by payments that 
werent made to their mortgage. They say a direct debit was set up and Topaz Finance 
Limited trading as Heliodor Mortgages was at fault for not collecting the payments.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had a mortgage with a lender Ill call X. The mortgage was transferred to 
Heliodor.
At around the same time, in November 2019 Mr and Mrs C changed their bank account via 
their new banks switching service. 
On 13 November 2019 Heliodor wrote to Mr and Mrs C as it was unable to set up the new 
direct debit as the account names didnt match  the funding account was in the names of 
Mr and Mrs C, whereas the mortgage was still held in Mrs Cs maiden name, Miss W. 
Mr C went online on 18 November 2019 and requested information about the interest hed 
paid in the previous tax year. He then went online again on 17 December 2019 and 
requested his correspondence address be updated.
As Heliodor couldnt accept an online request for an address change it wrote to Mr C at his 
new address on 24 December 2019 saying that it couldnt amend the correspondence 
address as it required a copy of his current signature for verification purposes, alternatively it 
said he could phone on the number provided and his address could be updated that way.
Unfortunately payments were then missed in November 2019, December 2019 and January 
2020.
On 3 January 2020 Mr C phoned Heliodor. He said hed submitted a request to update his 
address on the website just before Christmas and hadnt had a reply. The call handler said a 
letter had been sent to him, and she then updated his address on that call. It was explained 
that Mrs C would need to phone up separately to update her address and name, as shed 
need to go through security verification.
Mr C phoned Heliodor again on 10 February 2020 as hed received a letter stating the 
mortgage was in arrears. He made the missed payments over the phone, and the direct 
debit was set up for future payments.
In April 2020 Mr and Mrs C requested a three-month Covid payment deferral period. A letter 
was sent to them on 16 April which confirmed the payment deferral period would run from 
May until July 2020. It said as the payments were made by direct debit they didnt need to do 
anything as Heliodor would automatically suspend the direct debit for that period.
On 29 April 2020 Mr and Mrs C made a direct debit indemnity claim to reclaim their April 
payment. Theyve said this was a mistake, which they realised when they read the letter of 
16 April again.
Our investigator looked at things and didnt uphold the complaint. He said it was the 
responsibility of Mr and Mrs C to ensure Heliodor had their current address, and that they 
made their monthly payments. He said Heliodor had written to the address it had  the 
property address  and that the information recorded on Mr and Mrs Cs credit files was 
factually correct.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree and so it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr and Mrs C wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the 
way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole 
file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point 
its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in 
order to reach the right outcome.
Mr and Mrs C applied for consent to let their property in 2015. Ive reviewed the 
correspondence from that time, and Xs contact notes, and that indicates that whilst the 
application was agreed in principle, Mr and Mrs C never returned the forms to put it in place. 
The paperwork was sent to Mr and Mrs C on 1 September 2015, and then it was chased on 
29 September, 22 October and11 November. A cancellation letter was then sent on 
3 December due to non-receipt of the paperwork.
Mr and Mrs C say they didnt receive the letter from Heliodor dated 13 November 2019 
which said the direct debit couldnt be set up as it was sent to the property address, rather 
than their correspondence address. I asked how Mr C was able to access the Heliodor 
online system on 18 November 2019 as the welcome letter that set out the details of that 
was also sent to the property address in November 2019.
Mr C said I don't recall if I received this. It's possible the tenant passed this on, it was likely 
that I had it to register, although I may have been able to do so using the account number 
and other details I already knew. It seems unlikely that Mr C managed to access the online 
account any other way than being in receipt of that letter as that letter contained the website 
that hed need to access, and the new account number (which had changed from the 
account number X had used).
Both X and Heliodor only had the property address for Mr and Mrs C which would have 
meant they wouldnt have received any correspondence since they moved out in 2015, such 
as the annual mortgage statements. The lack of correspondence over the years ought to 
have put them on notice that X, and then Heliodor, didnt have the correct address for them. 
Our investigator asked Mr and Mrs C about that, on my behalf, with Mr and Mrs C saying:
When we first moved out, we provided [X] (the mortgage provider at the time) with our 
new address when we were given permission to rent. We also had a redirect service 
forward us any letters, then we arranged an informal agreement for the tenants who live 
there to pass us any post when we see them. We didn't consider an annual statement 
enough to warrant trying to contact the various mortgage companies over the years as it 
changed hands as all of our other contact details were up to date for anything urgent.So Mr and Mrs C have accepted they were aware that X and then Heliodor didnt hold the 
correct address for them for five years, and they were instead happy to rely on an informal 
agreement with their tenants that post would be handed over. That was Mr and Mrs Cs 
choice, but unfortunately that comes at a cost when it goes wrong. And I cant hold Heliodor 
liable for what then happened due to Mr and Mrs C not receiving letters.
I also cant hold Heliodor liable for the fact Mrs C hadnt updated her name on the account. 
Whilst Mr and Mrs C have said they sent a copy of their marriage certificate to X theres no 
evidence that was ever received. The contact notes show the following conversation:
11 May 2015 discussed name change as miss is married but she didnt feel she had to 
change her name is she was selling [the property].
X and then Heliodor have been writing to Mrs C using her maiden name of Miss W 
throughout, and so she would have been aware her name hadnt been updated on the 
mortgage account. As with the address, it was Mr and Mrs Cs responsibility to ensure they 
updated X and/or Heliodor with any changes, such as a name change.
Mr and Mrs C have said that they used a guaranteed switching service with their new bank, 
and the direct debit was showing as set up on their banking app. Theyve also said they 
didnt notice that theyd missed three monthly payments due to it being Christmas and so 
they had unusual spending patterns.
But Mr and Mrs C did know they had changed bank accounts, and even if a switching 
service is used, it is generally good practice to keep an eye on the payments going in and 
out  particularly the direct debits  to ensure everything has transferred over and the first 
payment (at least) has been made. Using a switching service doesnt mean a customer has 
no responsibility to keep an eye on things. They also knew their mortgage account provider 
had changed, which seems to be another reason to keep a close eye on things to at least 
ensure the first payment is collected correctly by the new lender.
Had Mr and Mrs C just missed one payment, there could be a strong argument that was a 
one-off oversight. But here they missed three payments, totalling nearly £1,000.
I asked why Mr C didnt notice the missed payments when he logged onto the Heliodor 
website, and he said:
I did not notice the missed payments as there is no way to check this.
Attached is a screenshot of the account today. This is almost exactly how it would have 
looked each time I have logged in. There was nothing to indicate a missing or overdue 
payment. There was no message, alert, or anything to suggest that payments were 
missing or in arrears. I am not even able to check a list of recent payments. There is a 
single line to say when my last payment was, but this is buried within a lot of other 
information and could be easily missed. There is a line on there that confirms a direct 
debit is in place. It's possible this was also there when I logged in the times mentioned 
given it was showing as active on our current account at the time.
I dont agree with the statement There is a single line to say when my last payment was, but 
this is buried within a lot of other information and could be easily missed.  The screen shot 
weve been sent isnt a busy page with lots of information crammed in. It is fairly spaced out, 
with the key payment information contained at the top of the page in a section entitled 
Account summary. This section only has four messages:
what the monthly payment is, whether a direct debit is in place, 
what the outstanding balance is and then
Your last payment of [£amount] was received on [date]. 
Heliodor has explained why it couldnt set the direct debit up in November 2019 as part of 
Mr and Mrs Cs bank account switching service, and it wrote to the only address it held for 
them about that. Mr and Mrs C have said that their previous bank account was also held in 
Mrs Cs married name and the direct debit collected successfully, but X and Heliodor 
wouldnt have been aware of that. They simply continued to use the existing direct debit 
instruction that they had. 
Here Mr and Mrs C were requesting that a new direct debit be set up, and as part of that 
certain checks have to be done and Heliodor said it couldnt set it up based on the 
information it had been given. Once Heliodor had spoken to Mr C about it the direct debit 
was set up over the phone in February 2020, and had Mr and Mrs C received the November 
2019 letter and called Heliodor at that time Ive no doubt the same wouldnt have happened 
then. But it couldnt set up the direct debit request that had been made without having that 
conversation. 
I cant hold Heliodor liable for the information that showed on Mr and Mrs Cs banking app 
which indicated the direct debit was set up correctly as that information was outside of 
Heliodors control  that information was provided by Mr and Mrs Cs bank. 
I also cant hold Heliodor liable for the direct debit not switching even though Mr and Mrs Cs 
used their new banks guaranteed switching service. That service is something offered by 
the bank, not by Heliodor. Heliodor couldnt set up the new direct debit without speaking to 
Mr and/or Mrs C due to the fact Mrs C hadnt changed her name on the mortgage account.
It was Mr and Mrs Cs responsibility to make their monthly mortgage payments. Heliodor 
wrote to Mr and Mrs C at the address it held to notify them of the problem, it didnt have to 
also try to call, text or email them as Mr and Mrs C believe. Mr and Mrs C refer to post as 
being the slowest method of contact, but the speed of the contact wasnt the issue here, it 
was the fact that Mr and Mrs C had not provided the lender with their correct address. Had 
they provided their correct postal address then Ive no doubt the letters would have reached 
them and corrective action could have been taken.
Mr and Mrs C have also said that Mr C updated their address when he logged into the online 
account on 18 November 2019. Heliodor has provided the online logs and I can see that he 
didnt request his address be updated on 18 November, it wasnt requested until he logged 
in again on 17 December 2019. That is supported by Mr Cs call of 3 January where he said 
he did it just before Christmas. A letter was sent to the new address on 24 December 2019, 
and Mr C then called and updated the address on 3 January.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Heliodor is not responsible for the missed 
payments between November 2019 and January 2020 and so I dont uphold this part of their 
complaint.
I now turn to what happened in April 2020. Mr and Mrs C requested a payment holiday. 
Unfortunately the call recording for that isnt available so Ive been unable to hear what was 
said. But we do have a copy of the letter that was sent to Mr and Mrs C on 16 April. That 
clearly stated that the payment holiday would run from May 2020 and that they didnt need to 
do anything with the direct debit. Mr and Mrs C have admitted they made a mistake when 
they made the direct debit indemnity claim for the April payment.Mr and Mrs C say that this wouldnt have been an issue if they paid earlier in the month, as 
they would have had time to make the payment again. But that isnt Heliodors fault. It 
doesnt give advice to borrowers about when in the month they should make their monthly 
payments, that is a decision the borrowers must make on their own. It has no regulatory 
responsibility to point out why some dates may be better than others, so I cant hold it liable 
for not doing so. 
Having considered everything Im satisfied Heliodor isnt responsible for the missed payment 
in April 2020 and so I dont uphold this part of their complaint.
Mr and Mrs C have said:
Our understanding of credit file checks is to show patterns of financial behaviour, 
whether we could be deemed reliable payees, have secure levels of income and so on. 
We believe that over a decade of paying our mortgage diligently shows that we are 
reliable financial consumers who pay in full on time each month.
Heliodor reported arrears to the credit reference agencies when Mr and Mrs C missed their 
mortgage payments. Like all lenders, Heliodor has a responsibility to report accurate 
information about how borrowers conduct their accounts. That information then feeds into 
the overall information held, which then demonstrates the patterns of financial behaviour 
Mr and Mrs C have referred to. The fact they hadnt missed any other payments would show 
on their credit file, just as the missed payments do, so that is information other lenders can 
take into account when deciding whether to lend to Mr and Mrs C, and if so on what terms. 
Mr and Mrs C did miss those mortgage payments, and Heliodor has a responsibility to report 
that information accurately, as it has done. There are no grounds for me to order Heliodor to 
amend Mr and Mrs Cs credit file information as it is a true reflection of the conduct of their 
mortgage account. If Mr and Mrs C want to add an explanation to their credit files, they can 
contact the credit reference agencies and ask to add a notice of correction, that way other 
lenders can read Mr and Mrs Cs explanation for the situation when they are deciding 
whether or not to lend.
Whilst I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Cs strength of feeling, Im satisfied Heliodor did nothing 
wrong, and therefore I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman