DRN-3754219
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) sold the 
salvage of their car, despite being told not to, following an accident and claim under their 
motor insurance policy. They also complain about the settlement value offered. 
I will refer to Mr G in my decision for ease. 
What happened
In November 2021 Mr Gs car was involved in an accident and he made a claim to 
Advantage. The car was eventually considered beyond economical repair and recorded as a 
category S write-off. Mr G told Advantage he wanted to retain the salvage so he could 
arrange for the car to be repaired himself. 
Advantage accepts Mr G gave instructions for the car to be returned to him. It was agreed he 
would be paid the settlement figure minus the value of the salvage. However, it failed to 
inform its salvage agent and the car was sold. Advantage says it cannot now return the car 
to Mr G. Because of its mistake it offered £250 compensation. It offered a further £100 
compensation for delays in the handling of his claim.
Mr G didnt think this was fair. He says the car has sentimental value and he wants it 
returned to him. Mr G decided to refer his complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld 
his complaint. She says that although Mr G had retained the V5 Logbook, Advantage had 
confirmed the salvage had been sold and therefore there was no way to return it. She 
thought the business should pay a total of £500 for the lost salvage, and a total of £200 for 
the delayed claim handling. 
Advantage disagreed. It pointed out it had paid £75 in November 2021 for delays in the 
handling of the claim. It says it was initially intended to repair the car but there were delays in 
sourcing parts. It says these delays meant the decision to declare the car a write-off couldnt 
have been made sooner. 
Our Investigator decided to amend her decision to reflect the £75 payment already provided 
and having accepted the reasons for the delayed claim handling. She thought a total 
payment of £175 was fair for these delays, along with a total payment of £500 for the 
salvage error. 
Mr G didnt think this was a fair outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Im not persuaded to increase 
the compensation award recommended by our investigator, which I understand will be a 
disappointment to him. But I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
I can see that Mr G reported the accident at the beginning of November 2021. Advantage 
acknowledged there was a delay in establishing whether the car could be repaired. It wrote 
to Mr G at the end of November apologising for the lack of update regarding a hire vehicle. It 
also acknowledged there was a weeks delay due to an error when the claim was set up. 
Advantage paid £75 compensation in response to these issues.  
Ive have read the engineers report provided by Advantage. This is dated towards the end of 
January 2022. It identifies damage to the rear of Mr Gs car and calculated that the repairs 
would cost £3,903.13, which is just over 65% of the market value it had calculated for the 
car. Because of this it decided the car was beyond economical repair and recorded it as a 
category S write-off.  
Ive read Mr Gs policy terms to understand whats expected in this situation. The terms on 
page 20 say:
If your Car cant be repaired or your Insurer deems the cost of repair to be uneconomical, 
your Car will be declared a Total Loss (sometimes called a write-off).
If your Car is a Total Loss, your Insurer may put it in storage until your claim is settled. 
Your Insurer is also entitled to take possession of your Car once theyve settled your Total 
Loss claim.
This shows Advantage acted according to its policy terms when deciding Mr Gs car was 
beyond economical repair. I think this decision is reasonably supported by its engineers 
report. I cant see that the terms mention what happens if a customer asks to retain the 
salvage. However, our service considers it reasonable for an insurer to comply with a 
customers wishes  if they decide to retain the salvage. 
There is a value attached to the salvage. In the event of a total loss I can see that Advantage 
is required to pay up to the market value of Mr Gs car. But its reasonable that it deducts the 
value of the salvage if it isnt able to retain it. 
Ive thought about Mr Gs dissatisfaction with the settlement payment he was offered based 
on the estimated market value of his car. The policy terms define market value as:
..the market value in the UK, as reasonably determined by the RAC in accordance with 
published industry data (using Glasss Guide or other appropriate trade vehicle valuation 
guide(s)), of a vehicle based upon a vehicle of the equivalent age, make, recorded mileage 
and model as your Vehicle.
Advantage valued Mr Gs car at £5,963 on the date the accident occurred. As he had chosen 
to retain the salvage the settlement payment was reduced to £4,024.47 to account for the 
value associated with this.  
Our investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide
valuations for cars but look to see whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from the 
motor trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides 
to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide 
research and likely sales figures. The guides also consider regional variations. We also take
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.  Ive looked at the valuations our investigator obtained. I can see that she used the correct 
mileage, make and model for Mr Gs car, and obtained the valuations from the date the loss 
occurred. The valuations obtained were £4,000, £6,650, and £8,189. This gives an average 
value of about £6,280. Im satisfied that Advantages valuation falls within this range of 
values and is only slightly less than the average of the guide values we obtained. Based on 
this I dont think Advantage behaved unfairly when calculating the market value of Mr Gs 
car. 
I can see from the records that Mr G made it clear he wanted to retain the salvage of his car. 
This is documented in the emails Advantage received. It doesnt dispute this point and says 
it failed to advise its salvage agent about this. This is why the salvage was sold on.  
What remains then is for me to consider the impact this had on Mr G and whether 
Advantage has done enough to put this right for him. 
I dont think it has. Advantage shouldnt have allowed its agent to dispose of the car. At the 
least, this has caused inconvenience for Mr G when buying a replacement. He also 
describes how the car had sentimental value, and that his intention was to have it repaired 
and put back on the road. There was nothing preventing Mr G from doing this. The car was a 
category S write off, which means it can be returned to the road if properly repaired. 
Because of the upset and inconvenience Advantage caused him I agree with our investigator 
that a total compensation payment for £500 is fair in relation to the salvage issue. 
I also think its reasonable that Advantage compensates Mr G for issues highlighted with its 
claim handling. But I think its offer of £175, in total, is fair so I wont ask it to pay anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Advantage should now:
pay an additional £250 compensation for failing to return the salvage to Mr G and for 
the inconvenience and upset this caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman