DRN-2648210
The complaint
Mr B complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc and its agent handled a claim made on 
his motor insurance policy so that it was settled on a 50/50 split liability basis. Hes also 
unhappy that he wasnt given information about making a claim for personal injuries. He 
wants AXA to compensate him for his uninsured losses. 
What happened
Mr B was involved in a collision with another driver in 2015 which he said wasnt his fault. 
There were delays in the claim and AXA paid Mr B £200 compensation for this in 2017. 
In 2019, AXAs agent told Mr B that it intended to settle the claim on a split liability basis.    
Mr B was unhappy about this and that his claim for personal injuries was now statute barred. 
AXA said it didnt have enough evidence to hold the other driver fully at fault. It said Mr B 
had been told to seek legal advice about his personal injuries claim. Mr B remained 
unhappy.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think it 
was AXAs responsibility to make Mr B aware he could claim for uninsured losses. She 
thought Mr B wasnt covered for this under his policy. And she thought Mr B had first 
mentioned this more than three years after the accident, by which time his claim for personal 
injuries was statute barred. 
She thought AXA had reasonably considered the evidence and settled the claim on a split 
liability basis, as it was entitled to do under the policy terms and conditions. She didnt think 
AXA was responsible for further delays in the claim since 2017. 
Mr B replied that AXA had made its decision without exchanging witness statements. He 
thought AXA had made the split liability decision to avoid being responsible for his uninsured 
losses. He said he hadnt received the £200 payment awarded in 2017.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has already explained, I cant consider the issues addressed in AXAs 
October 2017 response to Mr Bs first complaint. This includes any issues arising out of that 
complaint, such as the payment of compensation.
I was sorry to hear about Mr Bs ill health following the accident and the effect this had on his 
employment. Mr B thought AXA was responsible for his personal injuries claim being statute 
barred. But I disagree. 
I cant see that Mr Bs policy provided for advice or representation about uninsured losses. 
AXAs agent told Mr B that he should seek his own legal advice about his uninsured losses. 
And I cant see that Mr B raised these matters until more than three years after the accident. 
So I dont require AXA to compensate Mr B for his uninsured losses.
Mr B thought that AXAs decision to settle the claim as split liability was calculated due to his 
potential personal injury and uninsured losses claim. But I havent seen evidence to show 
this. I can see that delays in the claim after 2017 were due to Mr B wanting to continue to 
defend the claim. 
Mr B was unhappy that AXA had settled the claim as split liability. The investigator has 
already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for causing the 
accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this nature is simply 
to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it act fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it treated Mr B 
the same as someone else in his position. 
AXA is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr B to take over, defend, or 
settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr B has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement of 
his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim before making its decision 
on liability. 
The circumstances of the accident as reported by Mr B were that he was exiting a minor 
road to turn right onto a major one. He said another car let him out when he was hit by a 
third car that had overtaken the slowing car. 
Ive read AXAs file notes. AXA requested Mr Bs version of events. Mr B said there were five 
witnesses. AXA then started disputing liability with the other insurer and tried to contact a 
witness whose details it had. AXA thought a split liability may have to be accepted as the 
onus was on Mr B to take greater care as he was turning right onto the main road. 
Mr B had said that there were other witnesses and the police had their details. But the police 
didnt respond to AXAs request for these. The attending police officer provided a statement, 
but this was after the fact. No police report was completed, and the other driver wasnt 
prosecuted for dangerous driving as Mr B thought he would. 
So the evidence AXA had to consider was Mr Bs version of events. It took legal advice and 
thought a 50/50 split liability settlement was the best possible outcome. It thought there 
wasnt enough evidence to hold the other driver fully at fault. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for AXA to decline to take the matter to court due to the costs and the likely 
outcome. I cant see that exchanging witness statements would have changed this outcome.
I can see that Mr B was unhappy with this. But I think AXA took reasonable steps to obtain 
evidence from the police. I cant hold AXA responsible if this wasnt forthcoming. So I think 
AXA reasonably investigated the claim and considered the evidence available before making 
its decision. I think its entitled to do this by the policy terms and conditions. So I cant say its 
done anything wrong in this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman