DRN-3617970
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr C complain about Royal & Sun Alliance (RSA)s handling of an ongoing 
escape of water claim made under their home insurance policy.
All references to RSA include its appointed agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, whove provided substantial 
submissions for our service to consider. So, what follows is a brief summary of the key 
events I find relevant to my decision.
RSA previously voided Mr and Mrs Cs policy and the complaint was referred to us. 
An ombudsman upheld the complaint and directed RSA to reinstate the policy and 
reconsider the escape of water claim.
RSA then proceeded with the repairs to the property, but havent paid any alternative 
accommodation (AA) expenses to Mr and Mrs C. So, they referred a further 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint be upheld. 
They concluded Mr and Mrs C were entitled to around 4 years worth of AA in the 
circumstances. And they recommended RSA compensate Mr and Mrs C £2,500 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused.
Upon appeal by RSA, our investigator revised their findings as Mr and Mrs C were 
unable to provide evidence they were planning to, or were able to end their short-
term tenancy agreement earlier. So, our investigator concluded it wouldnt be 
reasonable for RSA to pay for the first six months of AA.
RSA didnt agree, in summary it said:
Theres not enough evidence to show Mr and Mrs C were going to return to the 
property in 2018 (around the time of the escape of water event). Rather, the evidence 
suggests Mr and Mrs C had been paying for two properties for some time with no 
financial detriment (supported by tenancy agreement, electoral roll records and 
council tax status.)
The property is habitable, and has been since March 2021, so why havent Mr and 
Mrs C moved back already?
Its unfair to pay AA when Mr and Mrs C were limiting their use of the property.
I attempted to mediate the matter between the parties in order to arrive at an outcome that 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Having reviewed the evidence, I concluded:
Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances did meet the definition of the AA benefit under the 
policy terms.
RSA needed to make an AA payment which covered a reasonable period in the 
circumstances, and up to the point it could be agreed that the property was 
reasonably habitable.
That our investigators recommendation of £2,500 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused was also reasonable.
I proposed that to put things right for Mr and Mrs C, RSA should:
Pay Mr and Mrs C the equivalent of 24 months AA at a rate of £1,600 per month. 
oRSA should calculate this from May 2019 (14 months after the event 
happened and considering the reasons above) to May 2021 (the date which it 
has been shown the property was habitable.)
oPay 8% simple interest on the sum above, from the date each rental payment 
wouldve been due (for calculation purposes RSA should assume rent was 
due on the 1st of each month), to the date of settlement.
 
Pay a further 10 weeks worth of AA (at a rate of £400 per week) to enable the 
snagging work and private repairs to be completed, and the claim closed.
Pay £2,500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused (in line with our 
investigators original recommendations).
RSA accepted my proposal to resolve the complaint. Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. They 
provided a further submission for me to consider. In addition to other points, they said in 
summary:
They didnt think the offer was fair, and that RSA had deliberately missed out 
evidence in its submission to our service.
That they werent responsible for any of the delays in the claim and provided further 
evidence to support some of the missed appointments and delays.
There are outstanding issues regarding the owing and use off offset funds for 
uninsured works.
They maintain the property is uninhabitable due to the outstanding issues and must 
remain unoccupied. And that the scope of RSAs cash settlement for the remaining 
work show its not limited to snagging issues.
Its not clear what uninsured work RSA has paid for yet.
It wasnt clear why I had proposed the dates I had for the AA payment.
It would be impractical to move into the property and back out again for the 10 weeks 
of outstanding repair works.
RSAs offer omits payments for council tax which should be covered under the policy 
as reasonable extra accommodation expenses.
The costs due are not negotiable and absolves RSA of over 2 years of AA and 
associated costs.
The offer proposed by RSA isnt in line with the terms of the policy, which is a legally 
binding contract.
RSA should therefore pay for the full amount of AA and associated costs.
As Mr and Mrs C remain unhappy with the proposed settlement, Ive considered all the 
additional points Mr and Mrs C have raised when reaching my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.The informal nature of our service means that Im not required to respond to every single 
point thats raised. And I dont intend to cause Mr and Mrs C a discourtesy by not doing so. 
But I do want to reassure them that Ive carefully read and considered all the evidence 
provided before reaching my conclusions.
Our service isnt set up to act in a claims handling capacity and as such any ongoing issues 
(such as the money RSA has recently established it owes Mr and Mrs C for the offset costs, 
or outstanding claims for council tax) I consider to fall outside of the scope of my decision.
I dont agree that the issues raised here regarding an AA payment are clear cut, or that      
Mr and Mrs C cannot be held responsible for any of the delays in the claim. And the crux of 
their submission seeks to put all of the blame onto RSA for every delay and event thats 
happened regarding the repairs to their property.
But simply put, based on the considerable evidence and correspondence Ive reviewed, its 
clear to me that there were avoidable delays at times from both parties. And Ive not seen 
anything in Mr and Mrs Cs most recent submission to persuade me to depart from this 
conclusion. Rather, the evidence supports a finely balanced and relatively complex set of 
circumstances involving multiple contractors, and an overlap of insured, uninsured and 
private works, which has evidently complicated the claim.
Ill next provide some further clarity behind my thinking with regard to the AA payment. The 
relevant section of Mr and Mrs Cs policy says that regarding the cost of alternative 
accommodation  We will also pay for: any reasonable extra accommodation expenses: 
until the house or flat is ready to be lived in.
Our services approach to AA is that when we say reasonable, we generally take that to 
mean a similar type of property to the one the consumer is insured for. And we take 
additional (or in this case extra) to mean costs above and beyond what a consumer would 
usually pay if the claim hadnt arisen.
Mr and Mrs C say these costs arent negotiable, the property remains uninhabitable, and this 
offer means they will be out of pocket for additional AA costs theyve incurred.
However, in line with our services overall approach Ive set out above, I disagree. I dont 
consider the benefit entitlement is strictly defined in the policy, and therefore in the 
circumstances, RSA is entitled to consider if all the costs being claimed for are in fact 
reasonable or extra.
In regard to the propertys habitability, I previously considered this point and I remain 
persuaded that on balance, its been shown the property was habitable since May 2021, and 
that the recent scope of works and associated cash value dont show its uninhabitable. Our 
service does take a broad approach when considering this, but ultimately, simply being 
inconvenient to live in the property doesnt usually mean its uninhabitable.
I say this because whilst the surveyor recommended the property remained unoccupied to 
complete the repairs, he also said, In regards to habitability then in my opinion the property 
is suitable for occupation. However, it would be far easier, quicker, safer and cheaper for 
the contractor to undertake the works by keeping the property unoccupied. (My emphasis in 
bold).
So, in the circumstances, I find RSAs offer to pay a further 10 weeks worth of AA to 
complete the outstanding repairs fair and reasonable. I understand Mr and Mrs C have 
concerns over the outstanding repairs and scope of works, but on balance, Im not 
persuaded that these concerns are sufficient to delay the claim or repairs further. I accept it wouldnt be practical for Mr and Mrs C to move back into the property and then 
back out again for the repairs. So, in the circumstances I would suggest a more pragmatic 
approach would be to allow the repairs to start and for them to raise any final snagging 
queries upon completion. But ultimately, its for Mr and Mrs C to decide how they want to 
proceed.
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Cs query about the dates given for the AA payment. In essence, 
this was to provide RSA with a reasonable period during the claim from which to calculate 
the interest (reflecting the time Mr and Mrs C have been without the funds), and taking into 
account the avoidable delays in the claim I identified. Having reviewed everything again, 
while it is difficult to calculate the exact date these payments should be made from, Im 
satisfied its the fairest way for RSA to calculate the AA funds Mr and Mrs C are reasonably 
due under the policy, and reflects the individual circumstances of this complaint.
So, having considered everything, I remain persuaded that the proposed offer is a fair and 
reasonable outcome here.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr and Mrs C, RSA should:
Pay Mr and Mrs C the equivalent of 24 months AA at a rate of £1,600 per month. 
oRSA should calculate this from May 2019 to May 2021. 
oPay 8% simple interest on the sum above, from the date each rental payment 
wouldve been due (for calculation purposes RSA should assume rent was 
due on the 1st of each month), to the date of settlement . 
Pay Mr and Mrs C a further 10 weeks worth of AA (at a rate of £400 per week).
Pay Mr and Mrs C £2,500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
 Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If RSA deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr and Mrs C how much has been taken off. RSA should give Mr and 
Mrs C a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint is upheld. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
must put things right by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman