DRN-2917672
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the end of contract charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS), when he returned the car after voluntary terminating the hire 
purchase agreement he had with them.
What happened
In July 2017, Mr M was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement with 
MBFS. He paid a deposit of £4,000, and the agreement was for £41,366, with 36 monthly 
payments of £640, and a final optional payment of £23,675 if he wanted to keep the car.
At the same time, he also purchased GAP insurance, and alloy wheel repair insurance. Both 
of these policies were for 36 months cover.
In June 2020, Mr M voluntary terminated the agreement, and arrangements were made for 
MBFS agents to collect the car. The car was collected on 23 June 2021, and the car was 
inspected. This inspection identified damage to all four alloy wheels, and to one of the front 
tyres.  Mr M received an invoice for the damage to the car. 
He complained to MBFS, he said he had taken out an insurance policy that covered damage 
to the wheels. He said hed arranged for the wheels to be repaired under the policy in May 
2020, one month before the car was to be returned to MBFS.  He said this was postponed to 
July 2020 because of the Covid pandemic. He told the repairer this wasnt acceptable as he 
had to return the car in June 2020. He said the repairer agreed to do the work on the day 
before collection. But he said the repairer called him the day before to cancel, as they said 
they were too busy and wouldnt be available for at least two weeks.
MBFS said that Mr M was still liable for the damage to the car, and they suggested the 
insurance company may still be willing to cover the costs of the repair. Mr M was unhappy 
with MBFSs response, and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said Mr M had seen the Vehicle Return Standards (VRS) that were part of 
the terms and conditions. She also said Mr M had agreed he was liable for any damage to 
the vehicle found at inspection. She noted Mr Ms comments about his alloy wheels 
insurance policy, but she said this was provided by a third party, not MBFS, so she didnt 
think theyd acted unreasonably in seeking payment from him for the damages.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator, so hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision. He said the insurance was sold to him by a Mercedes Benz dealership, and that 
the relationship between him, the dealership, and MBFS, means they should accept 
responsibility for the insurance contract. Hes also unhappy that he asked MBFS to delay 
collection of the car whilst he had the wheels repaired, but they didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr M was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into 
complaints about it.
The insurance policy was not part of the hire purchase agreement, and wasnt provided by 
MBFS, so Im not looking at that element of Mr Ms complaint.
The basic facts of this case arent in dispute. The car was collected, and damage was found 
on all four alloy wheels, and a front tyre needed replacing. MBFS said the damage was in 
excess of whats allowed as set out in their VRS. And Mr M hasnt disputed this.
Mr M said MBFS have been unreasonable in charging him for the damage when he has an 
insurance policy that covers this damage. He said he tried to arrange a repair before the car 
was collected  but the repairer, arranged through the insurer, let him down at the last 
minute.
Mr M provided copies of correspondence he received from the repairer. This makes clear the 
repair had been arranged by the insurer. The correspondence also includes guidance on 
what would happen after the repair. This says that if the repair cannot be done: either 
ourselves or the insurer will be in touch to explain the next steps.
Neither Mr M or MBFS have provided the name of the insurer who underwrites the policy. 
But as Mr M made arrangements for the repair, I think it is likely that he did this through the 
insurer, or one of its agents. The insurance was sold by the dealer, but it was not part of the 
hire purchase agreement, having been sold as a supplementary order.
I have to consider whether or not its reasonable for MBFS to charge Mr M for the damage to 
the wheels. I think it is reasonable. By providing him with a copy of the VRS they made him 
aware of the charges that would be applied. He appears to have been fully aware of the 
damage, and that he would be charged for it, as he arranged for the repair.
This was organised for one month before the car was to be returned to MBFS. And another 
date was arranged when the first appointment was cancelled. Unfortunately this was also 
cancelled, but this was due to the actions of the repairer, as appointed by the insurer. So I 
cant say that MBFS has been unreasonable.
They notified Mr M of the charges, and then issued an invoice for the amount based on the 
damages on the car when it was inspected. Mr M said he asked for more time and said they 
failed to respond. Thats unfortunate, but I think MBFS gave Mr M sufficient time to have the 
repair done. It was the insurers agent that let him down, not MBFS.  
Given the above, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr M, Im 
satisfied that MBFS acted reasonably by charging for the damage to the car and I wont be 
asking them to amend or withdraw their invoice.
My final decisionFor the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited .
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman