DRN-4042596
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) continuously blocks payments he 
needs to make to an approved third party. Mr F says he then has to phone Lloyds to clear 
the payments and experiences excessive wait times for his calls to be answered. 
Background
Mr F has explained that over the last three years or so he has experienced the same 
repeated issue when trying to pay for holidays through a company he uses. He says each 
time the payments, which are larger than average, are stopped until he contacts Lloyds to 
confirm that they are genuine. 
Mr F has said while he appreciates security checks are a necessary and important part of 
the banks process he has tried to add a clearance for future large payments to this specific 
company but thats not been possible. He says that as he no longer has a local branch 
where he lives he has to phone the bank to confirm payment. This can result in him having 
to spend an hour or more waiting for his call to be answered and the payment cleared. 
Mr F says this has caused him embarrassment with the holiday company and resulted in him 
being charged large amounts for the calls hes made. He believes Lloyds needs to add more 
staff to its call centres and rewrite the algorithm for security checks so issues like the ones 
he has can be resolved.
Lloyds addressed Mr Fs complaint and agreed its wait times were too long. It apologised for 
that and offered Mr F £40 compensation. It also paid him an additional £12 to cover the 
costs of the calls. 
It also said that the checks run on larger transactions were a necessary anti-fraud process 
and were in place to protect customers like Mr F. While it accepted these checks may cause 
inconvenience it believes it was still better for the bank to err on the side of caution rather 
than allow larger transactions to go through without confirming the payment request was 
genuine.  
It also explained that when payments like the ones Mr F was trying to complete were 
stopped it would send a SMS to customers mobile phones asking them to confirm the 
payment was authorised. If Mr F replied yes to these messages then it wouldnt be 
necessary for him to call the bank. 
Mr F was unhappy with Lloyds response and brought his complaint to this service. He said 
the area where he lived had poor mobile phone signal, so he didnt receive the messages. 
He also said he had spent closer to £200 on phone calls and believed he should be awarded 
up to £350 for the inconvenience hed been caused. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Fs complaint already. He thought Lloyds had done 
enough to address the problems Mr F had experienced and so he didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Mr F remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint and so its 
been passed to me to consider.   
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator did, and for much the 
same reasons. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr F.
Mr F has explained that while he understands why banks like Lloyds run checks on larger 
transactions he is frustrated that hes been unable to add a flag for the holiday company he 
uses to ensure all transactions to it are processed without checks. 
I understand why Mr F would want to be able to do this. But I also appreciate the position the 
bank is in. Online fraud and scams are becoming increasingly more sophisticated and so 
banks are obliged to take additional measures to keep customers safe. It wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to try to set out exactly what measures Lloyds should have and what its 
risk appetite should be. But I am satisfied that the checks are done to protect Mr F and his 
money, and that while it may be inconvenient at times, its necessary for banks to ensure the 
transactions completed for customers are genuine and authorised. 
Mr F has said that he is unable to receive SMS due to the remote nature of where he lives 
and the poor mobile phone signal. However, it also appears that when he phones Lloyds he 
does so on his mobile phone as he has said the cost of these calls has been almost £200 in 
total. Its unclear why Mr F is unable to receive a text message to his mobile phone when he 
is able to make calls from it, but I do think the fact that Lloyds attempts to contact him in this 
way shows the bank is trying to speed up the process for customers and negate the need for 
them to phone. 
I can also see from the account notes provided by Lloyds that in the past when Mr F 
complained about the excessive call wait times he confirmed he was calling from a landline 
phone, and he received £9 to cover the cost of a 90-minute call to the bank. As the cost of 
the calls is dictated by the phone provider it would seem that Mr F can mitigate the cost of 
these calls by using his landline as opposed to his mobile when he needs to contact the 
bank. 
Mr F initially said that he has spent up to 20 hours on the phone to Lloyds because of these 
issues. He then said it was in the region of six hours. Our investigator asked Mr F if he could 
provide any evidence, such as phone bills, which would speak to the amount of time and 
money he has spent trying to get the payment issues resolved with Lloyds. Mr F didnt think 
it was necessary to provide this information as he believed that Lloyds has already 
confirmed the wait times were excessive when it agreed to pay him £12 in his latest 
complaint. 
Im unable to say the amount Lloyds has offered Mr F for his call costs is unreasonable 
without this information. Mr Fs testimony regarding the amount of time he has spent on the 
phone has been inconsistent and it seems as though he received payments for these sorts 
of costs in the past. So, without any additional evidence to rely on I think its likely the money 
Mr F has already received is sufficient to cover the cost of his calls. Particularly if he uses his 
landline as opposed to his mobile phone where the charges by the provider will likely be 
lower.
That said I do agree that the wait times Mr F has had to endure are inappropriate. Lloyds also accepts this and has already apologised and confirmed it is working to reduce the wait 
times for all customers. It offered Mr F an additional £40 in recognition of this and I think that 
is reasonable in the circumstances. 
Finally, Mr F has said he believes the call wait times hes experiencing is directly linked to 
Lloyds decision to close a number of its branches, including the one closest to his home. I 
agree with Mr F on this point, it does seem like a reasonable assumption to make. However, 
as noted above, Lloyds has confirmed its working to reduce the wait times and provides 
alternative methods for customers to contact it and authorise transactions. Mr F has 
suggested Lloyds should work in conjunction with other banks to provide bank hubs or 
mobile banking in remote areas. While I can understand why Mr F would like Lloyds to adopt 
this approach its not within my remit to give that direction to the bank. The closure of 
branches is a commercial decision, and not something our service can request a bank to 
reverse.
Overall while I understand why the checks and linked delays in completing his transactions 
frustrate Mr F I think theyre necessary to protect him and his funds. Lloyds has apologised 
for the wait times hes experienced in the past and confirmed its actively working to reduce 
these. Its also paid him compensation as well as refunded the cost of his calls. So I think the 
bank has responded reasonably to Mr Fs complaint and Im not going to ask it to do any 
more in this instance.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman