DRN-3701893
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the valuation he was provided with by his motor insurer, 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage), after his car was declared a total loss. 
All references to Advantage include its agents.
 
What happened
Mr Bs car was declared a total loss after it was involved in an accident. He made a claim 
under his motor insurance policy with Advantage who initially offered him £3,193, minus his 
excess.
 
Mr B was unhappy with Advantages offer and complained. Advantage then increased its 
offer to £3,361, from which it deducted £50 for pre-existing damage.
Mr B didnt accept the increased offer and complained to us. He said that from his own 
extensive research the offer made by Advantage was significantly lower than his cars true 
market value. He said it would cost him £600 to £1,200 more to buy a comparable car. 
Mr B provided copies of adverts for cars he considers similar to his. He said Advantage 
didnt provide evidence of cars that it said were for sale for less (for example it had 
mentioned one for £2,699) and also didnt use a particular motor-trade guide that provided a 
higher valuation. He also didnt agree with the £50 deduction and said the damage 
Advantage had referred to was mud splashed onto the wheel arch. 
Mr B said he wanted Advantage to provide a fair valuation that accurately reflects the market 
value of the car and to put him back in the position he would have been in before the 
accident.
 
One of our Investigators reviewed the complaint but she didnt think Advantage had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in arriving at its valuation. Mr B didnt agree and asked for an 
Ombudsmans decision. He said that the only comparable examples from adverts he had 
found were priced higher than Advantages offer. He added that used car prices have been 
increasing over the last two years and that the motor guides have not kept up with market 
values. He said the real market value for his car is at least £4,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for the same reasons provided by 
our Investigator. I know Mr B will be disappointed with this. I can see that he has invested a 
lot of time and effort in bringing his complaint to Advantage and to us and provided a lot of 
evidence in support of his arguments. Nevertheless, we do have an established approach 
when it comes to complaints similar to Mr Bs and, in this case I think that, on the whole, 
Advantage has acted in line with it. 
Mr Bs policy says that Advantage will pay him the market value i.e. the cost of replacing the 
car at the time the loss or damage occurred with one of the same make, model, age and 
condition. Mr B says that Advantages offer wouldnt enable him to find a replacement car 
that was similar to his.
 
Its not my role to decide what the value of the car is but to decide whether Advantage made 
an offer which was fair and reasonable based on the evidence available to it. Assessing the 
value of a used vehicle isnt an exact science. We generally find the valuations given in 
motor-trade guides most persuasive as they are based on extensive nationwide research of 
likely selling prices. 
Advantage used the valuations it obtained from two guides. These were £2,900 and £3,361 
respectively. It originally made an offer that was close to the average of the two but after 
Mr B complained it increased this to the highest valuation. Our Investigator carried out two 
further valuations using two other guides. These came in at £2,892 and £3,570. 
I wouldnt consider any one of the four valuations to be an outlier so I think a fair and 
reasonable offer would be somewhere within the range of £2,892 and £3,570. For this 
reason, I consider Advantages offer of £3,361 to be fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances. Even if I were to take the average of the four values, this would come in at 
£3,180.75 which is lower than what Advantage has offered.
Mr B was unhappy that Advantage did not use a third guide which he says provides a 
valuation of £3,620. Advantage said it didnt do so as it tends to find the other two guides 
more reliable. Even if I were to take this valuation into account, I would still consider 
Advantages offer to be within the range of reasonable offers. Even if I were to discount the 
lowest two valuations as outliers, £3,361 would still be within the range of reasonable offers. 
And even an average of all five would be less than Advantages offer (£3,268).
Mr B has provided copies of adverts for similar cars. Advantage said it looked at adverts but 
there was great disparity in the prices. We dont tend to find adverts as persuasive as the 
motor guides and the reason for this is because it is difficult to know what a car will actually 
sell for from the advert; and a vehicle may be sold for less than the advertised price 
especially with private sales. There may be occasions where we do look at adverts and this 
can be where we arent able to get a result from any/all of the guides, for example where the 
car is old or a rare model. I dont think this was the case here.
Mr B said that he didnt agree with the £50 deduction for pre-existing damage. I have seen a 
photograph of the alleged damage provided by Advantage and it is difficult to say whether it 
is damage or mud. Nevertheless, even with this deduction I think Advantages offer is 
reasonable and within the range provided by the guides, so I wont ask it to do anything else 
in respect of this.
 
Mr B has also mentioned extras such as a boot cover and tinted windows. Extras can be 
recorded in some of the motor guides and, though optional extras do come at an additional 
cost when purchased, they often dont increase the resale value of a vehicle.
 
In his complaint Mr B mentioned delays. Advantage told us Mr B didnt want it to investigate 
these. We asked Mr B about this and he said he didnt think there was any point as he was 
exasperated by the process. As Advantage hasnt looked into this issue and provided a 
response, I wont look at it either in this decision; neither has our Investigator as she 
explained in her view. Nevertheless, if Mr B changes his mind he is free to go back to 
Advantage and ask it to look into the delays.My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman