DRN-3251189
The complaint
Miss W complains about charges PSA Finance UK Limited trading as Free2Move Lease 
asked her to pay at the end of a hire agreement term.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W had a hire agreement with Free2Move for a van. The agreement set out the 
obligations of both parties, including what would happen at the end of the term. This 
complaint involves three end of term charges, which for ease Ill address in turn. 
Miss W was charged £16 for damage to a wheel trim. Miss W, Free2Move and the 
investigator agreed this was damage beyond fair wear and tear and was therefore 
chargeable. For completeness, I agree. So this charge stands.
Miss W was charged £200 for a missing service history  there had been a service, its just 
the service book hadnt been stamped. From the evidence Ive seen, Miss W contacted 
Free2Move on the day the van was inspected to explain why the book hadnt been stamped 
(pandemic related reasons) and to supply proof a service had been completed. Im not 
persuaded its fair and reasonable for Free2Move to charge Miss W £200 for a missing 
service history in these circumstances. This charge should be waived.
Miss W was charged for excess mileage. She shouldnt have been as shed previously 
increased her mileage allowance and was within said allowance. Free2Move has since 
accepted it made a mistake and has waived the excess mileage charge. Its also offered 
Miss W £100 compensation in recognition of the impact the mistake had on Miss W. As the 
mistake was over a fairly small sum, Miss W knew she was in the right and it was corrected 
relatively quickly, I consider £100 fair and reasonable compensation.
 
Putting things right
PSA Finance UK Limited trading as Free2Move Lease should:
- waive the charge for the missing service history; and 
- pay Miss W £100 compensation, as it has offered.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require PSA Finance UK Limited trading as Free2Move Lease to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman