DRN-3833246
The complaint
Mr W complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) didnt deal with the rejection of 
his car fairly and in a timely fashion. This meant he incurred further expenses. 
What happened
Mr W acquired a car in March 2022 through a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn. 
Almost immediately he raised concerns with the car, and after some diagnostic work was 
done, by mid-March 2022, Moneybarn agreed he could reject the car. 
They said he should return the car and they would refund his deposit and subsequently 
agreed a further payment of £216.50, to cover some distress and inconvenience, and the 
cost of a diagnosis Mr W paid for, as well as covering a months road tax and insurance for 
the car. He didnt make any monthly payments on the agreement. 
Moneybarn were aware Mr W wanted to arrange a new finance agreement with them to 
acquire another car, so on 18 March 2022, they advised him that the original car needed to 
be returned and they would contact him once they received the funds from the supplying 
dealership to clear the finance. This was to allow them then to arrange the new finance for 
the new car. 
The new finance agreement was confirmed and activated on 11 April 2022. Mr W had 
chased this up on various occasions, and Moneybarn have said the delay was due to the 
original supplying dealership needing to return the funds to them to clear his original finance 
agreement. They said they couldnt set up the new finance before the previous agreement 
had been ended. 
Mr W complained, saying that he had incurred further expenses for taxis, and the delay also 
meant he had to pay for delivery of his new vehicle, as he wasnt able to collect it once the 
school holidays began. Moneybarn didnt uphold the complaint and said that theyd never 
told him the new car was ready for collection, and if this had happened it was the dealership 
who had said it and should be covering any taxi costs. 
Unhappy with this, Mr W brought his complaint to our service. An investigator here 
investigated the complaint and did not uphold it. They said they could not find any evidence 
of Moneybarn telling Mr W anything wrong and were satisfied that he had been treated fairly 
by them and theyd dealt with things in a timely fashion.
Mr W didnt agree with this however and asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision. 
He said that Moneybarn shouldnt have said he could get finance for a new car until they had 
the money back to close the previous agreement. He had to pay delivery and put the deposit 
down on the new car, without test driving or viewing it, and felt that is a direct result of 
Moneybarns poor service.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr W was supplied with a vehicle under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it.
As both parties have agreed the car needed rejecting, and this has happened, I wont be 
considering that matter further. I will be assessing whether the redress paid was fair, and 
then will consider the administration following that, to see if mistakes were made which have 
ultimately cost Mr W any money. 
With regards to the redress offered on the rejection, I think Moneybarn have been more than 
fair. They swiftly acted to agree a rejection within two weeks of the car being acquired. They 
agreed his deposit should be refunded, and they also refunded him the £99 he paid for a 
diagnostic report and paid £50 for any distress or inconvenience caused. 
Alongside this, they refunded him a months road tax and a months car insurance. This goes 
beyond what Id have expected to see, as Mr W would be required to insure and tax the 
vehicle while he owned it. 
Ive then gone on to consider the timescales involved, and whether they feel reasonable. Mr 
W has begun his second finance agreement on 11 April 2022, just over a month after his first 
agreement started on 9 March 2022. That feels fair and does not indicate any undue delays 
occurred here. 
Mr W has concerns with the process followed by Moneybarn, of clearing one agreement 
before allowing him to take the second one. I would say that its probably good practice for 
the lender to ensure one agreement is cleared before allowing another one to start, to 
ensure a consumer doesnt risk ending up with two finance agreements and debts in place 
still if something goes wrong. It also might have been the case that until the original 
agreement was cleared, this second agreement wouldnt have shown as being affordable to 
Mr W, and Moneybarn would be expected to only go ahead with an agreement if they were 
satisfied it was affordable. 
I do think this is more an internal process that Moneybarn are following, but its not our role 
to be the regulator and decide if their process is fair or not. My role is to decide whether the 
process here caused any detriment to Mr W, and I cant agree that it did. 
Ive seen no evidence that suggests Moneybarn told Mr W they would let him start the 
second agreement before the first one was cleared. And Im not persuaded that there were 
any undue delays here. Overall, I am satisfied Moneybarn have acted fairly here. 
Mr W has said he incurred taxi expenses and a delivery cost for his second car, which were 
down to Moneybarns service. I dont agree with this. Mr W hasnt had to make monthly 
payments for the car (which were due to be £266 per month) and has been refunded a 
further £67 for his tax and insurance costs for the month, so hasnt had to pay to insure or 
tax a car for the month. 
As he hasnt been paying for a car because the original car was rejected, it would be fair for him to have to pay for reasonable alternate travel costs until he was able to acquire a new 
car. If this period had run to many weeks, and his costs had spiralled, I would consider 
whether this was fair to Mr W and whether Moneybarn had unduly delayed things. But that 
isnt the case here. This was a period of at most three weeks, from being told he could reject 
the first car, to acquiring the second car. If he was refunded the taxi costs, he would likely 
end up better off, as he would be paying nothing for his travel for this month. 
With regards to the delivery fee for his car of £250, and the fact he couldnt view, or test 
drive the car, I also dont agree that this is down to Moneybarn. He had the option to view 
and test drive a car before the finance was in place and has also said he put down a deposit 
for the second car while awaiting the replacement finance agreement to be set up. 
I cant agree that his choice to buy the car without viewing it or test driving it is linked to 
Moneybarn, and I am not persuaded that Moneybarn delayed things unduly which might 
have led to him having to do this.  
Ive seen no unreasonable delays caused by Moneybarn, and as such, I cant agree they are 
liable here for further expenses or costs to be refunded to Mr W.  I wont be asking 
Moneybarn to do any more here. 
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman