DRN-1056552
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
June 2010. Mr S says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays), previously Egg, mis-sold him the 
PPI.
Background
Mr S bought the policy in June 2010 at the same time as taking out a credit card. The sale 
took place online.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint because they didnt feel Mr S was given clear enough 
information about the policys exclusions and limitations. They thought this would have 
mattered to Mr S because he had a pre-existing medical condition and thought he wouldnt 
have taken out the policy had he been given clearer information. Barclays didnt agree with 
the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S, so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make sure Mr S got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him.
Barclays has provided us with a copy of the PPI policy wording which sets out, amongst 
other things, the policy exclusions and limitations. Looking at the policy wording its clear that 
any claims related to pre-existing conditions arent covered under the policy terms. This is 
important, as Mr S has told us that he suffers from an ongoing chronic medical condition 
which was diagnosed several years before he purchased the PPI. So, Ive gone on to 
consider whether the exclusion relating to pre-existing conditions was made clear to Mr S at 
the time of sale.
Barclays has provided our service with copies of the screenshots of the online application 
process from the time Mr S applied for his credit card and purchased the PPI. Based on 
what Ive seen, I dont think the exclusion relating to pre-existing medical conditions was 
sufficiently brought to Mr S attention. I say this because there was no requirement for Mr S 
to click on the link to the page setting out the policy exclusions before agreeing to purchase 
the PPI. 
So, Ive considered whether Mr S would have done anything differently had he known about 
the policy exclusion. Taking everything into account, including the fact that the policy 
excluded cover for any claims resulting from pre-existing and chronic conditions, I dont think Mr S would have bought the PPI if hed realised he wouldnt be covered for claims resulting 
from his condition. In the knowledge that the policy wouldnt cover claims for the one thing 
that he was most likely to be concerned about, I dont think he would have considered the 
PPI a useful thing to have. So, I think Mr S has lost out because of what Barclays did wrong. 
Barclays says it doesnt think Mr S medical condition would have affected his decision to 
take out the PPI policy. Its based this on the fact that Mr S has told us that he wasnt taking 
any medication and hadnt had any time off work for his medical condition. 
While I accept that Mr S wasnt on any medication and hadnt had any time off work due to 
his condition, I cant ignore Mr S was attending annual check-ups with his doctor, 
presumably to ensure that his condition hadnt worsened. Using what I know of the type of 
condition Mr S has, any deterioration in his condition could have led to serious implications 
for his health potentially resulting in substantial amounts of time off work. Given any claims 
for his condition would have been excluded under the sickness, critical illness and life 
elements of his policy, I dont think Mr S would have bought the policy had he known about 
this.
It follows that I uphold this complaint on the basis that I dont think Barclays made it 
sufficiently clear that Mr S wouldnt be able to claim for anything linked to his pre-existing 
condition. And I dont think he would have agreed to the policy had the exclusions relating to 
pre-existing medical conditions been made sufficiently clear.      
putting things right
Barclays should put Mr S in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI 
and:
A. Barclays should find out how much Mr S would have owed when he closed his credit card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr S owed when he closed his 
account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him. 
B. Barclays should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr S would have 
owed when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.*
C. If  when Barclays works out what Mr S would have owed each month without PPI  Mr S 
paid more than enough to clear his balance, Barclays should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr S paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr S would have 
owed Barclays something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.*
 
D. Barclays should tell Mr S what its done to work out A, B and C.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr S complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman