DRN-2765129
The complaint
Mr S complains about how esure Insurance Limited investigated a claim made on his motor 
insurance policy and that it recorded him as being at fault. 
What happened
Mr Ss car was hit by an uninsured driver and he made a claim. esure was unable to trace 
the other driver, so it couldnt recover its outlay. It therefore recorded the claim as fault 
against Mr S. But it waived his policy excess and his No Claims Bonus (NCB) was protected. 
Mr S thought esure hadnt done enough to trace the other driver. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought esure 
had commissioned two investigations to try and trace the other driver, but they were 
unsuccessful. She thought it had correctly recorded the claim as fault, not because Mr S was 
to blame for the accident, but because it hadnt recovered its outlay.
Mr S replied that he thought the claim shouldnt have been recorded as fault. He asked for 
his complaint to be reviewed, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr S feels frustrated that he wasnt to blame for the accident, but 
esure has recorded the claim as fault/non-recoverable on the Claims and Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE) database. It explained to Mr S that this was because it didnt have contact 
details for the other driver and so it couldnt pursue him for its losses. 
I think that this would be the correct way to record the claim in that circumstance. The fault 
record doesnt mean that Mr S was to blame for the accident. It means that esure was 
unable to recover its outlay. This is standard industry practice and I cant say it was 
incorrect. 
Mr S didnt think esure had reasonably investigated the other drivers details. Our approach 
in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that Mr Ss policy, on page 8 of his policy booklet, included an uninsured driver 
promise
If youre involved in an accident that isnt your fault and the other driver isnt insured, the 
excess wont apply as long as you can provide the other drivers details and registration 
number.
Mr S was able to provide the registration for the car that hit his, but not the drivers name. So 
Ive looked to see if esure made reasonable attempts to try and locate contact details for the 
other driver. 
esure did a search and found a name linked to the cars registration. It then sent its 
investigators to two addresses linked to this name. But they couldnt trace the contact details 
of the driver that hit Mr Ss car. 
I think esure carried out reasonable attempts to trace the other driver. Unfortunately these 
werent successful. So esure couldnt take action against the driver to recover its outlay. I 
think esure then correctly recorded the claim as fault/non-recoverable. I think it very 
reasonably then waived Mr Ss policy excess and allowed his years NCB. I dont think it 
needs to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman