DRN-3589108
The complaint
Mrs P has complained about the advice she has received from Alan Steel (Asset 
Management) Limited (ASAM). In particular, she says that the advice to invest into the 
Woodford Equity Income Fund (WEIF) was not suitable for her. 
Mrs P is being represented with this complaint. But for ease, I have referred to all actions 
and comments as those of Mrs P. 
What happened
Mrs P has been a client of ASAM, since she invested £150,000 into a collective investment 
account following their advice in 2013. They continued to act for her on an advisory basis 
from that point. 
ASAM advised Mrs P to switch an amount into the WEIF in October 2014 and again in 
August 2018. She was then advised to invest £20,000 into the WEIF within a new individual 
savings account (ISA) in September 2018. This was done through switching the amount 
from another fund in her collective investment account.
Trading into the WEIF was suspended in June 2019, following poor performance. In October 
2019, it was announced that the fund would not re-open and would be wound up. Mrs P had 
approximately £30,943.75 invested in the fund at the time and received £26,262.70 after it 
was wound up. Representing a loss due to this of £4,681.05. 
Unhappy with this, she complained to ASAM. They responded to say that they believe the 
advice they gave was suitable for Mrs P, considering her risk profile and the diversification of 
her portfolio. They also provided some background as to why the WEIF was chosen and 
continued to be monitored despite initial poor performance. 
Mrs P brought her complaint to our service for an independent review. Our investigator 
looked into it and whilst she felt the initial advice to switch into the fund in 2014 was suitable, 
she didnt think this was the case for either of the 2018 switches. She said she was of this 
opinion due to the impact it had on the diversification and risk profile of Mrs Ps portfolio. 
Whilst Mrs P agreed with the opinion of our investigator, ASAM didnt. They said they felt the 
August 2018 switch was reasonable and the breakdown of Mrs Ps portfolio matched her risk 
profile. They did say maybe a different fund couldve been selected for the switch into an ISA 
in September 2018, but that further diversification after the initial switch was intended. 
As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the outcome reached by the investigator was fair. Ill explain why.
Our investigator looked into the initial switch from one fund into the WEIF in 2014 and didnt 
think ASAM had done anything wrong with this advice. Mrs P responded and accepted that, 
so Ive focused my decision on the following advice that the parties arent in agreement with. 
August 2018 advice
Mrs P was advised to switch approximately £26,000 of units from the Investec Cautious 
Managed Fund into the WEIF. This was about 1/6th of her total portfolio value at the time of 
approximately £155,000. 
Whilst it was a switch and not a new subscription, Mrs P was still asked for her current 
attitude to risk and it was recorded as still being cautious to balanced. Mrs P was also asked 
for her updated current circumstances. This money had originally been invested from 
inheritance in 2013. She had been recorded as wanting to retire in 2022 and not having any 
outstanding liabilities other than a mortgage with her husband, which was offset and due for 
repayment by 2023. It was now recorded that her income was now £12,000 p.a and she had 
no recording savings. 
According to ASAM, the switch meant Mrs Ps portfolio was now invested approximately 
60% into equities, 30% bonds and 12% commodities and alternatives. I think this presented 
too much exposure to risk and potential for loss for Mrs P, who I would not regard as an 
experienced investor. Considering her goal to retire shortly after this and that her income 
had reduced (presumably in light of this), I dont think the advice was suitable for Mrs P as 
she didnt have the capacity for loss that the risk of this switch brought. I say this especially 
as the money had come from inheritance and with only a modest income and no savings, 
she was unlikely to be able to make the amount up again. 
Further, in March 2018 the WEIF was reclassified from an Equity Income fund to a UK All 
Companies fund. This took account of the changes in investments (a higher level of illiquid 
shares) and that it wasnt generating the income expected of an equity income fund. As well 
as this, the inclusion of several unlisted securities (which generated less income) increased 
the funds risk profile. ASAM have said they were aware of this but that this reclassification 
was common and isnt necessarily a warning. Whilst I understand those comments, I still 
think this switch and the resulting make-up of Mrs Ps portfolio presented more exposure to 
risk than she was willing to take. 
September 2018 advice 
Mrs P was then advised to invest a further £20,000 into the WEIF within an ISA, through a 
switch from her collective investment account. This meant nearly 1/3rd of her total portfolio 
was invested in the WEIF. 
I believe this saw a lack of diversification of Mrs Ps portfolio and too great an exposure to 
one fund. I note ASAM have acknowledged this in their response to our investigator and 
stated their intention was to diversify further in the new year. However, this doesnt make the 
advice suitable and if diversification was the aim, I see no reason why this wasnt done 
immediately. Ultimately the portfolio lacked diversification until the WEIF was suspended.
In summary, I dont think either pieces of advice given in 2018 to Mrs P were suitable. The 
initial switch saw her portfolio carry more risk than she was willing to take. I also think the 
second switch meant her portfolio was too exposed to the WEIF and lacked diversification. 
Putting things right
Fair compensationIn assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mrs P as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mrs P would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is 
fair and reasonable given Mrs P's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must ASAM do?
To compensate Mrs P fairly, ASAM must:
Compare the performance of each of Mrs P's investments with that of the 
benchmark shown below.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment.
ASAM should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay Mrs P £300 for the stress she was caused when she realised the considerable 
losses she had incurred. She had just retired and advised it was a stressful time for 
her. Since then she has changed IFA and spent considerable time and effort in 
making the complaints to both ASAM and our service.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
WEIF Still exists 
but illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investment 
(exact date 
unknown but 
approx.. 28 
August 2018)Date of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
WEIF Still exists 
but illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investment
(exact date 
unknown but 
approx.. 25 
September 
2018)Date of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the 
open market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the 
actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mrs P agrees to ASAM taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for ASAM to take 
ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Mrs P that she repays to ASAM any 
amount she may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, ASAM 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
The wrapper only exists because of illiquid investments. In order for the wrapper to be 
closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be 
removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by ASAM taking over the 
investment, or this is something that Mrs P can discuss with the wrapper provider directly. 
But I dont know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If ASAM is 
unable to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it 
pays Mrs P an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees 
(calculated using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable 
period for the parties to arrange for the wrapper to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs P wanted capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.I consider that Mrs P's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mrs P into that position. It does not mean 
that Mrs P would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs P could have obtained from investments 
suited to her objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Alan Steel (Asset Management) Limited should 
pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Alan Steel (Asset Management) Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mrs P 
in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman