DRN-1742242
 
The complaint
Mrs G complains that a motor home she has been financing through an agreement with 
Black Horse Limited has not been of satisfactory quality due to a safety recall and because a 
film on the roof light wasnt removed when the motor home was supplied and has 
subsequently bonded to the roof light.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The Financial Ombudsman Service isnt free to consider every complaint that is brought to 
us. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules detail which complaints we can consider. 
Amongst other tests the customer has six months from the date he or she receives the 
businesses final response letter to refer their complaint to us. After six months has elapsed 
this service needs consent from the business to consider a complaint or it cant do so unless 
there are exceptional circumstances.
Here, Black Horse has not been willing to give its consent for this service to consider a 
complaint about the functioning of the drop-down bed in Mrs Gs motor home as they 
provided a response to this complaint and it wasnt referred to this service by Mrs G within 
six months.
So, I wont be commenting on that issue, but I will comment on the problems Mrs G has 
experienced with the safety recall and the roof light lamination.
Mrs G acquired her motor home under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase 
agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to 
look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the motor home should have been of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Black Horse, who are also the supplier of 
the motor home, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
Im persuaded that there was a problem with this motor home at the point it was supplied to 
Mrs G as the manufacturer has accepted that the protective film should have been removed 
from the skylight before the motor home was supplied to her. In those circumstances the 
business are allowed one opportunity to repair the issue. 
I can see that Black Horse have agree to repair the skylight. I think thats reasonable.
The manufacturer also identified a potential safety issue which meant that if one or more of 
the wall runners were loose or detached the bed could collapse. But this was to resolve a 
problem that may happen; not a problem that had happened. So, it wouldnt be fair to 
suggest there was a problem with the motor home when it was supplied.
Additional safety straps were attached, and I dont think theres sufficient evidence that 
anything has been wrong with that remedial work.
Mrs G complains that the straps cause extra work. I understand that the new straps are likely 
to make the process of lowering the bed a little more difficult. But in the absence of further 
evidence, such as an independent report, I dont think it would be fair to suggest the new 
strapping system is inadequate or not fit for purpose. 
Mrs G has suggested that if the strapping system was in place from the beginning she would 
not have proceeded with the deal. Im not persuaded thats most likely to have been the case 
as, whilst I dont wish to trivialise Mrs Gs problems, I think its reasonable to suggest that the 
method of releasing the bed would be a relatively minor consideration when thinking about 
whether to finance a motor home. 
I can see that Black Horse have provided some compensation to Mrs G for the lack of use 
she had from the bed and the inconvenience shes experienced. I think the level of that 
compensation is reasonable given the distress, inconvenience and lack of use Ive seen 
documented. I can also see that Black Horse have paid interest on that payment and I think 
that is also reasonable.
So, overall, I think Black Horse have been fair here and I dont think they need to take any 
further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman