DRN-2926234
The complaint
Mr L complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank placed a block on 
his account which led to a delay in his current account switch.
What happened
In August 2020 Mr L was in the process of switching his current account with Tesco Bank to 
Bank H. But Bank H advised Mr L that it was unable to process the account switch, so Mr L 
called Bank H on 17 August 2020 to find out why the switch was rejected. Bank H spoke to 
Tesco Bank and advised Mr L the switch was initially rejected because his account with 
Tesco Bank had a temporary block. 
Mr L was unaware of the block and doesnt understand why it wasnt lifted if it was only 
meant to be temporary. Tesco Bank lifted the block on the same day and the account switch 
progressed as normal on 18 August 2020.
Mr L was unhappy about the block on the account and lack of information provided by Tesco 
Bank so he complained. Tesco Bank reviewed his complaint and said that while the block 
was correctly applied, it could have communicated better with him. So Tesco Bank upheld 
the complaint due to it not contacting Mr L about the block sooner and offered him 
compensation of £25.
Mr L remained unhappy with the response so referred the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator considered the complaint and felt the settlement offered by Tesco Bank was fair 
so he didnt ask Tesco Bank to do anything further. Mr L disagreed and felt a payment of £35 
was a fairer resolution. So the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
Tesco Bank has told us that in December 2019 it received some return post from Mr L which 
contained the pin for his debit card. As this had been returned Tesco Bank placed a 
temporary block on the account so it could clarify the issue with the address it had on file. 
Considering these reasons, I think it was reasonable for Tesco Bank to place a temporary 
block on the account to protect the account and find out what the issues were. 
But no contact was made with Mr L and the block remained on his account until the 
attempted account switch. Tesco Bank has accepted that it should have contacted Mr L to 
establish the reasons for the returned post sooner and this ultimately led to the delay in the 
switch. So, I need to consider if what Tesco Bank has offered as compensation is fair in the 
circumstances.
Tesco have told us that the account was not actively used and so this meant it stayed 
dormant from December 2019 until August 2020. Im persuaded thats correct as if Mr L had 
been using the account, he would have noticed the block on his account sooner. Mr Ls 
account switch was started on 10 August but due to the block was delayed until 17 August 
when he called Bank H to query the problem. Mr L was on the call for a period of time to 
resolve the issue. 
The awards this service makes are not fines or punishments; were not the regulator. In 
deciding a fair outcome here, I have to consider the impact of what went wrong on Mr L.
I can see that Mr L was put to some inconvenience and caused frustration because Tesco 
Bank didnt get things right. That could have been avoided but, in all the circumstances, I 
think the offer Tesco Bank has made of £25 is reasonable to reflect that. Having carefully 
considered what Mr L has said, I dont find grounds on which I might fairly require Tesco 
Bank to pay more  so I make no order or award as I feel the amount of compensation 
offered was fair in all the circumstances. And its in line with our usual approach in similar 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank should pay Mr 
L £25, if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman