DRN-3046535
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs O complain about their insurer, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA). 
Their complaint relates to the rejection of a claim under their home insurance policy for 
damage to render on a wall at their property following bad weather. 
RSA use agents to administer the policy and assess claims. References to RSA includes 
these agents.
What happened
In April 2021 Mr F and Mrs O contacted RSA about damage to their property following bad 
weather. Render applied to one of the external walls had started to crack and flake off 
(spalling). RSA appointed a surveyor (B) to inspect the damage and to validate the claim. B 
visited the property but concluded the damage wasnt due to an insured event covered under 
the policy and the weather had highlighted the breakdown of materials in the render. B also 
didnt think that there was a storm at the time of the incident.
Unhappy at their claim being declined, Mr F and Mrs O complained to RSA. RSA didnt 
uphold their complaint, saying the weather data in the area of Mr F and Mrs Os property 
around the time they said the damage occurred didnt show storm conditions were present. 
RSA added that, correctly applied, render on the property would be bonded to the structure 
and wouldnt break down unless wind speeds were exceptional. RSA confirmed Bs decision 
to decline the claim because storm conditions werent present and the policy excluded 
general wear and tear and things that happen gradually. In RSAs view, the adverse weather 
had merely highlighted an existing issue and wasnt the result of a single incident of storm.
Mr F and Mrs O then complained to this service. The main elements of the complaint were 
that the spalling of the render was the result of storm and the exceptional weather conditions 
during the winter. Mr F and Mrs O also said that, from talking to the company that made the 
render, the issues were due to the adverse weather - not from any defect in the render or 
how it had been applied. Mr F and Mrs O asked that RSA settle their claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She concluded there werent storm conditions 
at the time of the incident. Also, the spalling render was more likely the result of bad weather 
over a period, rather than a single event. As such it wouldnt be covered under the policy. 
She concluded that RSA hadnt acted unfairly in declining the claim.
Mr F and Mrs O disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. They said there had been a storm in March 2021, causing damage to 
the render. They also thought the policy wording was ambiguous and as the policy was 
written by RSA, any ambiguity should be interpreted in Mr F and Mrs Os favour 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether RSA has acted fairly towards Mr F and Mrs O.
The main element of Mr F and Mrs Os complaint is that RSA shouldnt have rejected their 
claim. And that the damage was caused by storm conditions, not wear and tear.
Ive looked at the three key questions we consider in complaints involving damage caused 
by storms:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, Mr F and Mrs O believe that the spalling of the render was the result of 
adverse weather and they mentioned particular periods over the winter 2020-2021, including 
a specific date in March 2021. However, both B and RSA say that there werent storm 
conditions present. While the policy document doesnt include a specific definition of storm, 
Section 1 (Buildings Cover), under a heading What we cover, states:
A storm will involve very strong winds powerful enough to cause structural damage 
to homes within its path. Its usually accompanied by torrential rainfall, hail or heavy 
snow.
Ive looked at the information on weather conditions from the weather reports that we use as 
a service, from the nearest station to Mr F and Mrs Os property. Ive looked at the data for 
the dates they mention in February and March 2021, as well as the period just before they 
contacted RSA. The data doesnt indicate storm conditions were present, so Ive concluded 
that the answer to the first question is no.
While Ive concluded storm conditions werent present, I have considered the other 
questions, given the respective views of Mr F and Mrs O and of RSA. On the second 
question, Ive looked at the evidence from Mr F and Mrs O, including photographs of the 
damaged render. I can see that the render has spalled in some places of the affected side of 
the property. Mr F and Mrs Os view, supported by what they were told by the firm that made 
the render, is that adverse weather conditions caused the spalling, not the quality of the 
render or its application. RSAs view is that, correctly applied, render would be bonded to the 
structure and wouldnt break down unless wind speeds were significantly higher than the 
highest gust speed from the weather reports Ive looked at. Ive thought about these points 
carefully, but on balance Im more persuaded by RSAs view, so Ive concluded that the 
damage to the render isnt consistent with that Id expect to see from a storm.
On the third question, Mr F and Mrs O believe that the damage was the result of adverse 
weather (not any other cause). RSAs view is that the adverse weather merely highlighted an 
existing issue with the render, rather than being the cause. Ive thought about both views 
carefully, but Ive concluded that while the damage may have become apparent following a 
period of adverse weather, I dont think it was the result of a single, one-off event that would 
constitute a storm.
 
Rather, it indicates an impact over time that gradually caused the render to spall. Looking at 
the policy wording, under the term Uninsurable risks it excludes loss or damage arising 
from wear and tear or anything that happens gradually over a period of time. I dont think 
this wording is ambiguous and as its excluded from cover under the policy then I dont think 
RSA acted unfairly and unreasonably in applying it to Mr F and Mrs Os claim. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr F and Mrs Os 
complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman