DRN-3172226
The complaint
Mrs C complains that, for quite some time, when she used her credit card held with Marks &
Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S Bank), the one-time passcode (OTP) was sent to
her husbands mobile number, and vice versa.
  
What happened
Mrs C said that she has a credit card account with M&S Bank. Shes the account holder. Her
husband is an additional cardholder.
Mrs C said that around mid-2020, she spoke to M&S Bank on the phone, and it made some
changes to her account. After that, M&S Bank started sending OTP codes for purchases
made by Mrs C, to Mr Cs mobile number. OTPs for Mr Cs purchases have been sent to Mrs
C too, but it appears that Mrs C is the main user of this account, and she has brought this
complaint.
Mrs C said she has contacted M&S Bank repeatedly about this, but the problem continued
until March 2021. Mrs C said it stopped then, because the OTPs stopped.
Mrs C said that what M&S Bank had done was wrong on many levels. She said it was a
breach of data protection, and that shed lost out on intended purchases, because she
couldnt always get hold of her husband in order to retrieve the time-sensitive code. Mrs C
said that the information M&S Bank was sending her husband meant that he was told about
purchases she was trying to make for his birthday and Christmas presents.
Mrs C showed us that M&S Bank had written to her saying that it thought the problem might
be to do with a former cardholder, who had remained on the account as an authorised user
although he should have been removed. Mrs C has told us she found it upsetting to be
reminded of this former relationship, and to have to provide details of that to M&S Bank. And
she didnt think this could have been the problem, both because the problem had started
much more recently, and because when M&S Bank had apparently fixed this issue, OTPs
were still being misdirected.
M&S Bank says now that this issue was not related to the previous authorised user on
account. It accepted that the problem continued after it sent Mrs C a final response on this
issue and paid £100 in compensation for the inconvenience shed experienced. It has no
record of the problem persisting past March 2021, but it hasnt been able to tell us exactly
what went wrong, or how it had been fixed.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said M&S Bank had
accepted that it had made mistakes, but our investigator said that the information it was
sending to Mr C through the OTPs was very limited. And it was information that Mr C would
always have had access to, as an additional cardholder.
Our investigator also noted that when an OTP is required, theres an alert before the code is
sent, which shows the last four digits of the mobile number where the OTP will be sent. So
Mrs C could also have cancelled this if she didnt want to go ahead, and avoided an OTP
being issued.
Our investigator said Mrs C had confirmed that the problem wasnt ongoing, and M&S Bank
had paid £100 as an apology. Our investigator didnt think M&S Bank had to do any more.
Mrs C didnt agree. She said it was disheartening to have tried to get this fixed for so long,
and not to have any explanation of what had happened. She wanted an explanation as to
what went wrong and how M&S Bank fixed it. She said it still wasnt clear whether it had
been fixed.
Mrs C also said that M&S Bank should pay more compensation, to reflect that shed spent a
year going over and over this issue on the phone and by email with M&S Bank, only to be
largely ignored. And Mrs C said that Mr C wouldnt be able to access information on the
account, as a third party card holder.
Because Mrs C didnt agree with our investigator, this case was passed to me for a final
decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I do think M&S Bank should pay more compensation than it has done, in this case. 
But I think I should also say, unfortunately, Im not going to be able to provide Mrs C 
with the detailed explanation of whats gone wrong, that I know that she would like.
When I decide on the appropriate amount of compensation in this case, I will need to 
bear in mind that the information which M&S Bank was sending to Mr C isnt personal 
information about Mrs C, to which Mr C would otherwise not have had access. M&S 
Bank has confirmed to us that if Mr C rings it, it will share with him some details of 
the account. That includes transactions. Although Mr C cant change details on the 
account, as a cardholder he can access them. M&S Bank doesnt treat Mr C as a 
third party, as Mrs C has suggested. And when M&S Bank was sharing limited 
information on Mrs Cs purchases with Mr C, through OTPs it was sending him, this 
is part of the information hes already allowed to access.
Ill also need to bear in mind that Mrs C did have the option to cancel OTPs, rather 
than have them sent to the wrong number. The alert that tells her an OTP will be 
sent, also confirms the last four digits of the number that will be used, so Mrs C could 
cancel these if they werent going to the right number.
But that doesnt change the inconvenience that this problem has evidently caused to 
Mrs C. Whilst Mrs C has remained able to use her card, shes needed to coordinate 
with her husband whenever she wants to do so.
Nor does it change the fact that M&S Bank was sharing with Mr C, information which 
he would probably not have chosen to access. Mrs C has told us this affected the 
purchases of birthday and Christmas presents for Mr C.
And finally, it doesnt change the fact that M&S Bank hasnt been able to provide an 
explanation of what has gone wrong. It has previously said this was linked to an 
additional cardholder who hasnt been on the account for some years. This is 
particularly unfortunate, as Mrs C has found this upsetting as well as unlikely, and 
M&S Bank no longer thinks that this is likely to have been the cause. M&S Bank hasnt been able to tell us what had gone wrong, or provide a reassurance that this 
wont recur.
So I cannot provide the resolution that Mrs C wants in this case, because I dont have 
a complete explanation of what has gone wrong, and how its been sorted out, to 
share with her. I can say that the problem doesnt appear to be happening now. M&S 
Bank doesnt think it has stopped OTPs from being sent (it says it cant do that) but 
Mrs C has confirmed that shes no longer receiving them, and her transactions are 
being processed.
Our service cant make M&S tell us what previously went wrong if it doesnt know, 
and I dont think its reasonable for me to require M&S to keep looking into this, or 
compensate Mrs C for ongoing inconvenience, if this problem is no longer 
happening. But I do think M&S Bank should increase the compensation it pays Mrs 
C, in recognition of the issues shes experienced and the time shes spent trying to 
put this right, to allow for its failure to provide an explanation of what did go wrong, 
and also for offering an explanation which must always have seemed likely to upset 
Mrs C, and which M&S says it no longer thinks is true.
For those reasons, I think M&S Bank should pay Mrs C a total of £250 in 
compensation. Its already paid £100. So it will have to pay Mrs C £150 now.
I should also say this complaint deals with the issues Mrs C has experienced with her 
card until the OTPs apparently stopped, in March 2021. Although I understand that 
this problem hasnt happened for some time, if it does start again, then Mrs C can 
complain to M&S Bank, and also refer that complaint on to our service, in the future.
I appreciate that this will fall short of the complete response that Mrs C would have 
wished, but I think this does provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
M&S replied to say it would agree to pay the additional £150 compensation requested, in 
order to settle this case.
Mrs C thanked me for my response, and said that it felt as though the issues had finally been 
heard and understood. Mrs C said that she thought compensation should be set at £500, 
because she thought that would more closely reflect how long this had gone on for and how 
unhelpful M&S had been. But she said that ultimately she just wanted to move on, and was 
very keen to put this behind her.
I understand that Mrs C has spent a considerable amount of time trying to resolve this issue, 
and I did take that into account when I thought about the appropriate level of compensation 
in this case. Ive reconsidered now, but I still think that total compensation of £250 does 
provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. So I havent changed my mind. Ill 
now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decisionMy final decision is that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc must pay Mrs C £150 in 
compensation, in addition to the £100 it has already paid.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman