DRN-3816547
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr Y complain that City Credit Capital (UK) Ltd (CCC) allowed them to trade
Contracts for Differences (CFDs) even though it wasnt appropriate for them. They also
complain that it shouldve warned them that trading CFDs wasnt appropriate. They say that
if they had known this they wouldnt have gone ahead with the application and wouldnt have 
lost so much money.
What happened
In 2016 Mrs C and Mr Y approached CCC to open a CFD trading account with it. They were
clients of an unregulated agent in their country of domicile who introduced them to CCC and
the unregulated third party theyd eventually choose to manage their account. They filled out 
an application form in which they declared:
They were domiciled overseas;
They had no experience trading shares or trading leveraged products;
They felt able to assess the risks involved in trading CFDs;
They were after capital growth;
They were intending on giving control of the account to a third party with power of
attorney.
On 14 June 2016 they received a letter via email from CCC confirming that their account had
been reviewed and they met the requirements to open an account. At the same time as this
letter they also received an additional risk disclosure letter. This said:
We have reviewed your application and have noted that you have limited/ or no experience
in trading derivatives. In light of this, we need to draw your attention to our Risk Disclosure
Statement (attached) to ensure that you fully understand the risks involved in trading
derivatives. You should not deal in derivatives unless you understand their nature and the
extent of your exposure to risk.
CCC said that if Mrs C and Mr Y required further assistance, there were other options they 
could explore such as a demo account, seeking advice from a 3rd party or appointing a 
Limited Power of Attorney. The letter concluded by saying that these were only suggestions 
and that if Mrs C and Mr Y still wanted to go ahead, CCC would be happy to accept your 
application upon receipt of the fund. 
Attached to this letter was a Risk Disclosure Statement. This notice outlined some very 
specific risks including:
CFD trading on futures had specific risks around settlement and contingent liabilities 
which investors needed to be aware of;
Some off-exchange markets were illiquid or exposed investors to the risk of being 
unable to close or manage their positions;
Foreign markets could carry greater risks than the UK market, in addition to the 
foreign exchange rate risk which would also apply. 
Commissions might be payable, so an investor needed to be aware of what charges 
might apply  although CCC did not charge any commission itself. 
On occasion it might be difficult or impossible to liquidate a position as a result of 
volatile movements in price or at times when the relevant exchange suspends or 
limits trading. 
Clearing house protections may not apply. 
Insolvency of the firm with which the deal was being made, or any other brokers 
involved in the trade, might cause a position to be closed without the traders 
consent. 
Electronic trading carried its own specific risks which the investors needed to be 
familiar with. 
In the terms and conditions document, a number of schedules were also attached  
including one specific on risk. This explained that foreign exchange spot contracts carried a 
number of risks, including that it is possible to lose more than your initial investment and 
that sudden market movements might require the trader to deposit a substantial amount of 
additional margin funds, on short notice, in order to maintain the position. In addition, CCC 
explained that the leverage often available in FX trading means that a small margin can lead 
to large losses as well as gains. Similar risks were set out in the next section of the terms 
which covered CFDs. 
Mrs C and Mr Y deposited around $131,202 between September 2016 and October 2016.
Their account was managed by two unregulated third parties and suffered a substantial loss
of funds  in May 2020 Mrs C and Mr Y were only able to withdraw just over $71. So they
complained.
CCC looked into their concerns but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said that it had
never recommended a specific third party to trade on their account  it concluded this had
been Mrs C and Mr Ys decision. And it said that it had complied with the regulations by
sending them the additional risk disclosure notice following the appropriateness assessment
it carried out.
Mrs C and Mr Y remained unhappy and referred their complaint to this service. I issued a 
provisional decision in October 2022. In it I said:
In 2016 the Conduct of Business Rules (COBS) written by the Financial Conduct Authority
(FCA) set out very clearly the process which CCC needed to follow. In short, COBS 10
required CCC to ask the client to provide information regarding his knowledge and
experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of product of service offered
or demanded so as to enable the firm to assess whether the service or product envisaged is
appropriate for the client.
It isnt in dispute that on the basis of the information Mrs C and Mr Y gave, trading CFDs was
not appropriate for them. They did not have any trading experience at all, and theres no
evidence of any other investments which they held at the time.
COBS 10.3 said:
(1) If a firm considers, on the basis of the information received to enable it to assess 
appropriateness, that the product or service is not appropriate to the client, the firm 
must warn the client. 
(2) This warning may be provided in a standardised format. Guidance at COBS 10.3.3 allowed firms use their own discretion, having regard to the
circumstances, when deciding whether allow consumers to open an account despite it not
being appropriate.
CCC has suggested that it did provide a warning to Mrs C and Mr Y  and since they
accepted the warning but wanted to go ahead anyway, it did nothing wrong. However, Im
not persuaded CCC did follow the rules above.
In reaching my findings, Ive taken into account the wording in COBS 10 as well as what
relevant regulators have said about how that rule should be complied with.
The European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) in my view clarifies how
COBS 10 should be applied by firms in a document called Questions and Answers: relating
to the provision of CFDs and other speculative products to retail investors under MiFID.
In Section 4 The assessment of appropriateness when offering CFDs or other speculative
products to retail investors question 2 it says:
For example, the warning should be designed in such a way that it is an actual interruption
in the process of authorising the opening of an account of entering a particular transaction.
The warning should be stated in clear language, indicating that, on the basis of the answers
provided, the specific product or service in question is not appropriate for the client as the
client is not likely to understand the risks involved. It should also recommend clearly that the
client does not proceed.
The FCA carried out a review in 2017 and confirmed ESMAs guidance. It said that risk
warnings should be designed to interrupt the application process. And they should use clear
language to communicate that a specific product or service is not appropriate for the
applicant because the applicants answers lead the firm to the view that the applicant does
not have the knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved, with a clear
recommendation against proceeding with the transaction. It further said that when
presenting a risk warning, applicants should not be asked to confirm an intention to proceed
with a transaction as the next step in the application process.
In my view, the statements above show clearly that a warning to a client following an
appropriateness assessment must, at the very least, occur before the account has been
opened. And in my view, the statements above also clearly show that in order for it to
amount to a warning as described in COBS 10, the letter or email must clearly explain to the
consumer that trading CFDs is not appropriate for them and advise them not to proceed.
In my view, sending Mrs C and Mr Y confirmation that their account had been opened, at the
same time as sending them what CCC considered was a COBS 10 warning was not what
the regulator intended. Im satisfied that the purpose of the warning is to interrupt the
application process and leave open the possibility of the account not being opened 
otherwise the guidance at 10.3.3 would be entirely irrelevant. Furthermore the significance of
warning consumers that the service isnt appropriate would be entirely diluted if the account
was already opened and able to be funded.
But Im also not at all persuaded that what CCC sent Mrs C and Mr Y amounted to the
warning that the regulator intended to be sent to consumers following an appropriateness
assessment. In my view its abundantly clear that the letter CCC sent Mrs C and Mr Y was
not actually warning to them not to trade CFDs. In fact it provided no such warning  the
letter CCC sent to Mrs C and Mr Y simply repeated the information they had provided and
attached a risk disclosure notice.At no point did it inform Mrs C and Mr Y that based on the answers they provided, trading
CFDs was not appropriate for them and they should not go ahead.
Im satisfied that given the information Mrs C and Mr Y provided, CCC was bound to
conclude that trading CFDs was not appropriate for them. And it ought to have written to
them and specifically explained this  and it ought to have done this before opening their
account. It ought to have encouraged them not to go ahead with the application because, in
its view, they had insufficient knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved in
trading CFDs.
I accept that there are circumstances when an account could still be opened despite a firm
providing the warning Ive mentioned above, if the consumer decided they still wanted to go
ahead. In my view however, if Mrs C and Mr Y had been told not to go ahead because CFD
trading was not appropriate for them, they wouldve chosen not to proceed with the
application. Im satisfied that their complete lack of any investment experience meant that
they were reliant on CCC, as the regulated firm, providing them with the insight and the
information they needed to make the decision to proceed.
Ive considered whether Mrs C and Mr Y couldve mitigated the losses they incurred, but Im
satisfied on balance that they had limited involvement in the trading on their account and
were entirely reliant on the unregulated third parties who were trading for them. So taking
this into account, Im persuaded the losses they incurred while trading CFDs would not have
been incurred but for CCCs error in the way that it handled their application and its failure to
warn them not to proceed. For the reasons Ive given above, this omission in my view meant
that it allowed Mrs C and Mr Y to be exposed to significant risks of financial harm  risks
which they did not fully understand and, given the nature of this type of trading, they had
limited protection from.
I awarded Mrs C and Mr Y compensation based on a benchmark linked to the average rate 
from fixed rate bonds, on the basis that they were inexperienced investors for whom capital 
protection was important. I also awarded £500 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience they were caused. 
Mrs C and Mr Y agreed with my provisional decision, but CCC didnt. It said:
The outcome I reached was flawed factually and mis-applies the relevant regulatory 
requirements. It said that I relied on guidance which post-dates the account 
opening. And as a result, CCC disagreed with my conclusions and the outcome. 
It highlighted the process it followed when the account was opened at the time, and 
asserted that it complied with the relevant regulations. It said that as a result of that 
assessment, it made it clear that the client should not trade in such products without 
understanding the attendant risks and it provided an additional risk warning setting 
out specific considerations. 
It said that the guidance I relied on was from July 2016, but the account was opened 
in June 2016. It said that it cannot be the case that guidance that did not exist at the 
time of the account opening can be applied on a retrospective basis to events 
predating its existence. For the same reasons it disagreed with my reliance on a 
review carried out by the FCA in 2017. CCC said that the firm must not be held to a 
non-existent or unexpressed standard, as the Decision does. 
It then proceeded to outline the COBS 10.3.1R explaining that in its view the rule 
requires a firm, where it has assessed a service/product as inappropriate for a 
client, to provide a warning to the client. It said that the rule did not specify a form of wording nor a format for that warning. It said that rule allowed the firm to use a 
standardised format and this is what it did  its process at the time was to employ 
standardised wording in the form of risk warnings sent to the client. 
It disagreed that the warning needed to explain to the consumer that CFDs was not 
appropriate nor that it needed to advise them not to proceed. It said that the rule 
does not say that this what it needed to do. It said that the rule simply records that 
where appropriateness is not confirmed, then the client must be warned. CCC said 
that this is exactly what the firm did. 
Furthermore, CCC said that I did not give sufficient consideration to the content of 
the Additional Risk Warning letter provided in June 2016. Nor did I give sufficient 
weight to the Risk Disclosure Statement which was attached. It said that given the 
context of the formulation and provision of the Risk Disclosure Statement to the 
client, and the reasons for it (serving as a warning as mandated by COBS 10.3.1R) 
this omission is a fatal flaw in the reasoning as articulated. 
CCC then quoted parts of its Risk Disclosure Statement which said 
oYou should not deal in derivatives unless you understand their nature and the 
extent of your exposure to risk. 
oYou should also be satisfied that the product is suitable for you in light of your 
circumstances and financial position. 
oAlthough derivative instruments can be utilised for the management of 
investment risk, some of these products are unsuitable for many investors. 
CCC said that given the letter sent to the client observed his lack of experience and 
the unequivocal warning that he should not deal in derivatives without understanding 
them, the various warning observations as set out in the contemporaneous 
correspondence with the client and in this letter clearly fulfils the warning 
contemplated by COBS 10.3.1R. 
It disagreed that there was an absence of a warning, and referred to the fact that it 
Additional Risk Disclosure specifically said that they should not deal in derivatives 
unless you understand their nature and the extent of your exposure to risk. It said 
that this was an explicit warning. Furthermore, it said that insofar as there was any 
repetition of risk warning information communicate to clients, doing so could only 
properly be seen as a positive thing. It did not agree that there should be a negative 
connotation applied to this. 
It described the risk headings in the Risk Disclosure Statement, and asserted that 
this complied with COBS 10.3.1R. It said that I had also not given proper 
consideration to the alternative options which it suggested to the consumers, such 
as opening a demo account, seeking advice or appointing an attorney. 
It asserted that it was wrong to use guidance which post-dated the account opening, 
and asserted that the warnings and suggestions of alternatives to opening the 
account interrupted the process and ensured that the client could only proceed in 
the knowledge that an account and CFD trading should only occur if the client had a 
full understanding of the risks involved. 
It disagreed with my conclusion that Mrs C and Mr Y had limited involvement in the 
trading on their account and were instead reliant on unregulated third parties trading for them. 
And in any event, it said that using attorneys was a matter for them and not 
something which CCC was involved in. In addition, the LPOA agreement which 
signed confirmed that the clients were responsible for the assessment and 
appointment of their LPOAs as well as for monitoring their activities. 
It concluded by asserting that it did not accept any compensation was payable to the 
consumers. And it confirmed that it in its view, it provided ample and significant 
explicit warnings to the client, all of which were in compliance and satisfaction of the 
requirements as set out in COBS 10.3. It disagreed that trading losses made by the 
clients were incurred in consequence of anything it did wrong. It said that the 
approach I had taken was fundamentally flawed and the correct approach was the 
conclusion the investigator had reached. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CCC has provided detailed comments. I understand it profoundly disagrees with my 
provisional decision. Ive reviewed the comments it has provided very carefully. However, 
the purpose of this decision isnt to address every point it has raised, and so I hope it doesnt 
take it as a discourtesy that Ive not done that here. Instead Ive focused on what I consider 
the main point of disagreement  whether what it considers was a warning pursuant to 
COBS 10.3 met the requirement of that rule. 
Before I do address CCCs comments, its important that I explain why Ive relied on 
information from ESMA and the FCA which, as CCC has pointed out, postdates the opening 
of the account. Whilst I note CCCs objections to me using this information, Im not 
persuaded its objections have merit. Ive not applied a rule or official guidance that 
fundamentally changed or altered the existing requirements as they are set out in COBS 
10.3. I havent retrospectively applied a standard which was not applicable at the time Mrs Y 
and Mr C opened the accounts  I agree that would be unfair. Instead the information from 
ESMA and the FCA that Ive relied on highlights both regulators expectations as to how firms 
ought to be complying with the rules that were already in place at the time Mrs Y and Mr C 
opened their account. I dont agree that what ESMA or the FCA have said at the time was 
new in the sense that it cant be applied retrospectively  in my view, ESMA and the FCA 
were in fact explaining how they expected firms to already be applying the relevant rules, 
and highlighting examples of bad practice. 
Therefore, whilst I appreciate why CCC disagrees, in my view the ESMA Q&A and FCA 
review I quoted are entirely relevant to this case and what CCC did  they also clearly 
contradict CCCs main reasons for believing that it complied with COBS at the time.
One fundamental area where I disagree with CCC is the nature of the warning that COBS 
10.3.1 required. I dont agree that merely highlighting to a consumer that they shouldnt go 
ahead unless they understood the risks is the type of warning which is envisaged here.
In my view, the wording of the rule is clear that what the client needs to be warned about is 
the firms conclusion that the service or product is not appropriate. This is the whole point of 
requiring firms to specifically assess appropriateness. And in my view the wording of COBS 
10.3.1 is unequivocal in that regard:
If a firm considers, on the basis of the information received to enable it to assess appropriateness, that the product or service is not appropriate to the client, the firm must 
warn the client.
Its clear to me that whats required is for the firm to warn the client that it considers, on the 
basis of the information received to enable it to assess appropriateness, that the product or 
service is not appropriate. I dont agree a warning which doesnt specifically make this clear 
is sufficient. I accept that this could be in a standardised format  but the fundamental nature 
of the warning ought to be as Ive set out above. The reason I say this is because other rules 
in COBS already mandate the types of standard risk warnings which firms ought to be 
sending to all their customers. Im satisfied that the intent behind COBS 10.3.1 is not for a 
warning about the product or its risks to be sent, as the firm ought to have already sent that 
information. To my mind the warning must convey to that consumer the outcome of the firms 
assessment that the product is not appropriate  no other interpretation makes sense when 
viewing a firms obligations as a whole.  
Further, in my view the purpose of the appropriateness assessment is to establish which 
clients should not be buying the investment or service because they do not have sufficient 
knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved. And the warning must, in my 
view, clearly warn the client that the assessment the firm has carried out means it is not 
satisfied that the client understands the risks. A warning which does not set out the outcome 
of the appropriateness assessment in my view would entirely defeat the purpose of COBS 
10, and the risk of consumer detriment which it is quite clearly trying to address. 
And so for the same reasons, Im not persuaded by CCCs comments about my 
consideration of the additional risk warning and disclosure. I took those documents very 
carefully into account before provisionally concluding that they did not amount to a warning 
as provided for in COBS 10. Despite the references which CCC has outlined, nothing in 
those documents, in my view, addresses the fundamental flaw in CCCs process. CCC had 
already established that Mrs C and Mr Y did not have sufficient knowledge and experience 
to understand the risks involve. At no point did it actually tell Mrs C and Mr Y this. It left it to 
them to decide whether they had such knowledge - even though CCC already knew they did 
not. This is not the warning that needed to be sent following a failed appropriateness 
assessment. For the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied that warning needed to 
specifically reference the fact that trading CFDs was not appropriate because Mrs C and Mr 
Y lacked the experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved.  
Whilst I note that CCC disagrees with those conclusions, what it has said about the nature of 
the warning and why it considers it complied with COBS 10 is also directly contradicted by 
what ESMA and the FCA have both said about what information the warning should include 
and what it should say. 
As I said in my provisional decision, ESMA explained in their questions and answers that: 
The warning should be stated in clear language, indicating that, on the basis of the answers
provided, the specific product or service in question is not appropriate for the client as the
client is not likely to understand the risks involved. It should also recommend clearly that the
client does not proceed.
And the FCA echoed this interpretation in 2017 when it said that warnings should use clear
language to communicate that a specific product or service is not appropriate for the
applicant because the applicants answers lead the firm to the view that the applicant does
not have the knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved, with a clear
recommendation against proceeding with the transaction. I find what both regulators have said about the warning persuasive evidence that CCC did 
not adhere to the rule. None of the information CCC sent Mrs C and Mr Y warned them that 
trading CFDs was not appropriate for them. At no point did CCC explain, in clear language, 
that their total lack of any investment experience meant that trading CFDs was not 
appropriate  and at no point did CCC provide a clear recommendation against proceeding. 
So for these reasons, I remain satisfied that based on the information that Mrs C and Mr Y 
provided, CCC was bound to conclude that trading CFDs was not appropriate for them  and 
it ought to have warned them of that fact and encouraged them not to proceed. CCC didnt 
do this, and as a result, Im satisfied it didnt treat them fairly. 
And for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, and which I now confirm as final, Im 
satisfied that if Mrs C and Mr Y had been told by the very firm they were looking to open an 
account with, that trading CFDs was not appropriate for them, they wouldve chosen not to 
proceed. I say this because Im satisfied that their complete lack of any investment 
experience meant that they were reliant on CCC, as the regulated firm, providing them with 
the insight and the information they needed to make the decision to proceed. 
Ive reconsidered whether Mrs C and Mr Y couldve mitigated the losses they incurred, but 
Im satisfied on balance that they had limited involvement in the trading on their account and
were entirely reliant on the unregulated third parties who were trading for them. So taking
this into account, Im persuaded the losses they incurred while trading CFDs would not have
been incurred but for CCCs error in the way that it handled their application and its failure to
warn them not to proceed  because, as Ive said, they would not have opened this account, 
and therefore incurred such losses, had they been properly warned. 
For the reasons Ive given above, this omission in my view meant that it allowed Mrs C and 
Mr Y to be exposed to significant risks of financial harm  risks which they had insufficient 
knowledge and experience to understand and, given the nature of this type of trading, they 
had limited protection from.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs 
C and Mr Y as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been 
given unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mrs C and Mr Y would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mrs C and Mr Y's circumstances and objectives when 
they invested.
What must CCC do?
To compensate Mrs C and Mr Y fairly, CCC must:
Compare the performance of Mrs C and Mr Y's investment with that of the benchmark shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the 
actual value of the investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
CCC should also pay interest as set out below.
Pay to Mrs C and Mr Y £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by CCC 
allowing them to take such a significant risk with their money.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
CFD trading 
accountNo longer in 
forceAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate ceased 
to be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the 
benchmark, CCC should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as 
published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually 
compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal from the CCC should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if CCC totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because Mrs C and Mr Y wanted to achieve a 
reasonable return without risking any of their capital. The average rate for fixed rate bonds 
would be a fair measure given Mrs C and Mr Y's circumstances and objectives. It doesnt 
mean Mrs C and Mr Y wouldve invested only in a fixed rate bond. Its the sort of 
investment return a consumer couldve obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that City Credit Capital (UK) Ltd should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above. City Credit Capital (UK) Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mrs C and Mr Y in a 
clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2022. 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman