DRN-4035010
The complaint
Mr B complains that a points-based holiday club membership was misrepresented to him 
and that he has not received the services he purchased. Because he paid for the 
membership using a credit card issued by Lloyds Bank PLC, he says that he has a claim 
against it in the same way that he has a claim against the seller. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B were existing members of Club Infiniti, a points based holiday club and 
timeshare business. While they were on holiday in October 2013, they were invited to a 
presentation to discuss their membership. Mr B says that he expressed concerns about 
various matters, including the standard of accommodation that was available and the fact 
that he and his wife were unable to relinquish their membership. 
Mr B says that the club representative told him that, if he bought additional club points, he 
and his wife would be entitled to end their club membership after ten years. They agreed to 
buy 60,000 points (in addition to the 85,000 they already held) for £7,390, which Mr B paid 
for with his Lloyds credit card.  
In October 2019 Mr B contacted Lloyds. He said he had been misled into making the 
purchase in 2013. The additional benefits of having extra points had not materialised. In 
addition, he had found out that he and Mrs B were already entitled to end their membership, 
since their existing contract was an in-perpetuity contract and therefore illegal. Had he not 
been told that he could not exit the existing contract, he would not have bought the extra 
points. He said that section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 meant that he could bring 
his claims against Lloyds.
Lloyds did not accept that Mr B had a valid claim. He had not shown that he had a claim for 
breach of contract, and there was no reason to think he would not be able to exit the club 
membership after October 2023  ten years after the purchase.  
Unhappy with the banks response, Mr B referred the matter to this service, where one of our 
investigators considered what had happened. She did not recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. Mr B did not agree with that initial assessment and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case. I did that and issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act, statements made by a supplier in relation to a 
transaction financed or proposed to be financed under pre-existing arrangements between a 
credit provider and the supplier are deemed to be made as agent for the creditor.  
In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act is that a customer who 
has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to 
certain conditions, bring that claim against a credit provider. Those conditions include:
that the credit financed the contract giving rise to the claim, either in whole or in part; 
and 
that the credit was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the credit provider and the supplier. 
Credit includes the use of a credit card account, and the arrangements under which 
suppliers are able to take credit card payments are, through membership of card schemes 
such as Mastercard and Visa, sufficient to constitute pre-existing arrangements.
Mr Bs contract in this case was with Leisure Dimensions Limited, an Isle of Man company, 
but the credit card payment was made to Leisure Bookings Albufeira. If they are different 
and unconnected companies, section 75 does not apply. 
The precise identity of Leisure Bookings Albufeira is not clear. I think it likely that Leisure 
Bookings is simply a trading style of Leisure Dimensions Limited. If it were a separate 
company, it would be registered somewhere and would be identifiable. If it were a subsidiary 
of Leisure Dimensions Limited, it would be listed in that companys annual report, as a 
number of other subsidiaries are.
I have therefore approached this case on the basis that payment was taken by the supplier 
and have considered Mr Bs claims about Leisure Dimensions Limited. 
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
Mr B says he was told that holiday properties would be readily available and of a high 
standard. That is a statement that is open to interpretation and not very specific. But Mr B 
has not provided any evidence of holidays that he has been able to book or of unsuccessful 
attempts to book accommodation. Even if I were to accept what he says he was told about 
the availability and standard of accommodation, I have not seen anything showing that it was 
untrue. 
Mr Bs main allegation however is that he was told he could not end the holiday club 
membership unless he bought additional points  and, with them, the right to exit after ten 
years. On the face of it, he did buy that right; there is currently no reason to think it wont be 
honoured if Mr and Mrs B decide to end their membership later this year. 
But Mr Bs argument is that he was misled because he and Mrs B already had that right. The 
sales representative told them that they didnt  an incorrect statement of law. Since, 
however, Mr B has not provided a copy of the original membership contract, I cannot fairly 
conclude at this stage that he was misled. The law in this area is not straightforward, and it is 
entirely possible that the original contract did not include an exit provision.      
Legality of the initial agreement
Mr B says that agreements of the type he entered into have been declared illegal in Spain. 
My understanding is that the judgment relates to timeshare contracts which do not clearly 
identify the accommodation which is the subject of the contract and to timeshare contracts in 
perpetuity. 
It is not apparent however that Mr Bs agreements were subject to Spanish law. A contract 
which concerns immoveable property is, generally and in the absence of any agreement to 
the contrary, governed by the law of the place where the property is situated. There was no 
specific immoveable property linked to the 2013 contract  either in Spain or anywhere else. It was a contract for the purchase of holiday points, not a timeshare. The earlier contract 
appears to have been for the purchase of points as well.
It is not clear if the 2013 purchase agreement included a governing law clause, since I have 
not been provided with a full copy, including the schedules referred to on the first page. It 
was however between an Irish company and two consumers resident in England. It was 
written in English and priced in sterling. As a general rule, the governing law of a consumer 
contract without a choice of law clause is the law of the consumers residence  unless it 
concerns real property. On the basis of the evidence I have seen, its likely therefore that this 
contract was governed by English law. The only link to Spain is that the contract was signed 
there.  
Conclusions
I stress that it is not for me to say whether Mr B might have a valid claim against Leisure 
Dimensions Limited. My role is to determine how his complaint about Lloyds should be 
resolved. My current view is however that it would not be fair to uphold it. I will however 
consider any further evidence and arguments that either party  but in particular Mr B  may 
wish to submit.    
Lloyds indicated that it accepted my provisional conclusions. Mr B has not however 
responded to them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I indicated in my provisional decision that I did not believe that I could properly uphold Mr Bs 
complaint without further supporting evidence. In particular, I said that I needed to see 
evidence of the standard of accommodation which Mr B had been able to book and of 
unsuccessful attempts to book accommodation. That would be relevant to the claims that 
accommodation was not of the standard he had been led to believe would be available and 
that accommodation was widely available. 
I also indicated that I needed to see a copy of the original membership contract which had 
been the subject of the upgrade in October 2013. That was relevant to the argument that 
Mr and Mrs B had been misled into upgrading their membership, since they already had an 
option to relinquish that membership. They had only upgraded so that they could exit the 
membership arrangements. 
I have not however received anything further from Mr B, and so I see no reason to change 
my overall conclusions.         
I should however clarify one point from my provisional decision. I said that Mr B had entered 
into a contract for the purchase of holiday points, not a timeshare. I think it is more accurate, 
however, to say that he bought a points-based timeshare and holiday club membership  
rather than a timeshare based on the right to use a specific property for a set week or weeks 
each year. The purchase of points entitled him and Mrs B to the use of holiday 
accommodation from a range of properties provided through Club Infiniti. The duration and 
standard of accommodation was dependent on the number of points held. I do not believe 
that the distinction makes any material difference in this case, however.      My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Lloyds Bank PLC to take any 
further steps to resolve Mr Bs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman