DRN-3169102
The complaint
A partnership, which Ill refer to as R, complain that they didnt receive the full cash incentive 
they expected to when they switched their accounts from The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
(RBS) to another bank. 
One of Rs partners, Mr R, brings the complaint on the partnerships behalf.
What happened
R held a number of accounts with RBS. In late 2019, they received correspondence from 
RBS in relation to a cash incentive that was available to certain eligible customers for 
moving their accounts to another bank.
In October 2020, the first of Rs accounts with RBS was closed and the account successfully 
switched to another bank. The second account successfully switched to the same bank in 
November 2020. A cash incentive of £4,000 was paid into one of Rs new accounts. 
However, R was expecting to receive a further £4,000 for the other account. Mr R said R had 
received two different reference numbers and were told to complete the transfers separately. 
He said R were not told at any stage that they would only receive one incentive payment, so 
he complained to RBS on Rs behalf.
RBS explained that R was only eligible to receive one cash incentive per legal entity. As both 
accounts were set up under the same business portfolio they were recognised as one 
business. This meant R only qualified to receive one payment on the primary business 
current account they held with RBS.   
Mr R was unhappy with this explanation particularly as he said R were not aware of how the 
accounts were set up. As such, he brought Rs complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter but said he didnt think RBS had done 
anything wrong. He said the scheme rules were applied fairly and the correct incentive was 
paid to R. Mr R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the case was 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr R but I wont be upholding this complaint. Ive 
explained why below.
Account set up
I understand that Mr R has said that R wasnt aware of how the accounts were set up by 
RBS and didnt know that the accounts were linked. RBS has been unable to provide me 
with the original documents from when the accounts were opened so Ive been unable to 
determine exactly what was agreed at the account opening stage. 
However, I think this is understandable given the account opening dates back almost two 
decades, and under data protection rules, there is a limited amount of time for which RBS 
can hold onto Rs data. 
As I cant see what was agreed or requested, Ive thought about whether it was fair and 
reasonable for RBS to have treated the partnership accounts as linked.
RBS opened numerous accounts on behalf of the partnership. And it has provided us with 
evidence to show that the accounts and loans of the partnership were set up using the same 
customer identification code, so they appeared as part of the same business portfolio. 
These accounts were opened over a number of years and the accounts in question all bore 
the partnerships name. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that the way the accounts 
were set up had caused R any issues previously.
From what Ive seen, the relationship here was between the partnership R, the legal entity, 
and RBS. So, I think it was reasonable for RBS to have treated the partnerships accounts 
as linked, regardless of the purposes of the accounts.
Cash incentive
The rules of the scheme stated that each business was only eligible to receive one cash 
incentive. The use of the term business here relates to the legal entity and not to the 
business accounts held by the business. 
I can see how Mr R may have found the use of the word business to be misleading. 
However, the literature explained that only the primary account, which was the main 
business account held with RBS, was eligible to receive a cash incentive. 
In this case, R was the legal entity and as such the partnership was only entitled to receive 
one cash incentive for the primary account in the relationship. Im therefore satisfied that R 
was only ever entitled to receive one cash incentive for the accounts they decided to switch 
out from RBS.
Switching process
The business banking switch website was set up to recognise all accounts associated with a 
legal entity. So regardless of the account number entered, if it was part of the connection for 
the legal entity that was eligible to receive a cash incentive, the user was directed to the offer 
that was available to them if the primary account of the business was switched.
I appreciate Mr R says that this wasnt clear to him, and I can see how this system mightve 
caused confusion. However, I dont think that the information RBS provided to R about their 
entitlement prior to them entering any information into the website was misleading. 
I say this as this scheme was only open to eligible businesses who, for the most part, were 
contacted directly by RBS. In this case I can see that all communications sent to R inviting 
them to participate in the scheme were related to account ending *****945. This account was 
identified as the primary account of this specific relationship as it was the account that had 
the most accumulated turnover in the relevant calculation period.Although only one account for each legal entity was eligible for the incentive, each current 
account was processed separately through the switching scheme. Therefore, each account 
received a consent to switch reference number. And this is the reason that two reference 
numbers were received by R. It was not as a result of them being eligible for a second cash 
incentive.
So, to conclude, I havent seen anything to indicate that RBS have treated R unfairly or 
unreasonably here. Im satisfied that RBS applied the scheme rules correctly and that R 
were only ever eligible to receive one cash incentive for switching to another bank as part of 
this scheme.
As a result, I wont be asking RBS to take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R, on behalf of 
R, to accept or reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman