DRN-3046207
The complaint
Mr J says Key Choice Financial Planning Ltd (Key Choice) was responsible for keeping his 
Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) funds in cash for 18 months, rather than these being 
invested in line with his appetite for risk. He also says he didnt receive a service and yet 
was charged fees.
What happened
Mr J had been a customer of Direct Financial Services (DFS) for many years, where his 
adviser had been Mr X. He says he met with him once or twice a year. DFS appears to have 
been absorbed by Key Choice around 2015, from which point it became the servicing agent 
for his SIPP. Mr X became one of its Directors. He also lost his ability to provide regulated 
advice.
Key Choice provided Mr J with ongoing financial advice. The client agreement both parties 
signed in May 2017 detailed the offer of structured reviews; assessment of his current 
circumstances and changes to any plans as required; regular updates on his investments 
and support with administrative matters. In exchange, Mr J paid fees of 1% of the value of 
his funds under management.
Mr J says that in August 2019, on reviewing a statement from Novia - his pension provider 
 he was surprised to find his funds had been in cash for the previous 18 months. He 
complained to Key Choice because he felt this had resulted in lost growth. He noted fees 
were still being charged and that despite a promise from his adviser to make contact in 
January 2019 to discuss his arrangements, this had never happened.
Mr J said the impact of Key Choices failings were that hed have to delay starting to draw on 
his pension pot, which hed wanted to do as hed reached 55. He said it should put matters 
right and later he estimated his loss at around £58,000 (his SIPP had a value of around 
£70,000).
Key Choice refuted Mr Js complaint. It cast doubt on the legitimacy of his case, believing he 
was being encouraged to complain by a disgruntled former director. It pointed out the close 
relationship between Mr J and Mr X. And it believed the aim was to cause additional work 
and costs to it, ultimately discrediting the firm. It also challenged much of his testimony, for 
example saying it was Mr J who had failed to make contact with it.
Key Choice terminated its agreement with Mr J shortly after he raised his complaint. It felt 
the relationship had broken down. It removed itself as the servicing agent for his Novia 
SIPP and instructed it to refund the adviser fees for the previous 12 months. Key Choice 
also arranged for Mr Js pension to be invested in a balanced risk fund in line with his risk 
appetite.
Mr J was very unhappy with these developments. He said Key Choice had invested his 
funds without consulting him. At the time he indicated he might have been better off staying 
in cash. He feels Key Choices actions werent in his best interests and that it would now be 
more difficult to transfer his pension away from Novia than when it was held in cash. 
The Investigator upheld Mr Js complaint. Key Choice disagreed but could understand his 
rationale and wanted to draw a line drawn underneath what had happened. Mr J disagreed  
he thought the Investigator had used the wrong risk appetite assessment in setting out his 
proposal on redress. And he argued that hed never been asked to provide evidence in 
support of his case. So, Mr Js case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This case shouldve been straight-forward, but its become entrenched, fractious and 
appears to have trailing wires to various other live issues between personnel at Key Choice 
(past and present), Mr J and other third parties. This has made it tricky to unpick in terms of 
what must be my focus and what is beyond the remit of this Service to become embroiled in. 
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, as is 
the case here, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Both parties have provided detailed information and argument about the events complained 
about. Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised. Thats deliberate; ours is 
an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their customers. 
While Ive considered all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on what I think is 
relevant and at the heart of this complaint. 
This is a finely balanced case. Ultimately, Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
Investigator for broadly the same reasons. It follows that Im upholding Mr Js complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
Key Choice believes Mr J was instructed to bring this case by a disgruntled former director. 
Its cited similar complaints received around the same time and with a similar formula. Its 
also provided the transcript from a court case between it and Mr X, where Mr J appeared as 
a witness for their former director. Its also informed us about the outcome of that case.   
What Key Choice says about its former director may or may not be accurate. But this 
Service cant join third parties to a complaint to help shed light on whats happened in this 
case. Whilst we do have powers to require parties to a complaint to provide information to 
us, we cant compel anyone who isnt a party to the complaint to provide evidence.
Key Choice will be aware, a court does have powers to compel third parties to give evidence 
and to be cross examined. Its free to pursue other parties it feels may have been 
responsible to whatever degree for whats happened to Mr J and for exposing it to any 
claims and costs that it now faces. But thats not something this Service can help with.
I agree with the Investigator when he found Mr J had concerns about what had happened to 
his pension. And as a customer of Key Choice, he had grounds to make a complaint.
Novia has confirmed Mr Js SIPP was cashed out by an ad hoc switch in 2018. There wasnt 
an ongoing instruction to periodically cash out and reinvest Mr Js pension but was done 
manually online. Key Choice says this was most likely the action of Mr X, who despite not 
holding the relevant qualifications, had access to Mr Js SIPP account.Key Choice says Mr J had refused to engage when it approached him on several occasions. 
These conversations happened face to face or via a third party. Mr J refutes this and says it 
was Key Choice who had failed to maintain contact. Unfortunately, aside from these 
disputed accounts theres little contemporaneous evidence to go on. 
Key Choice feels it shouldnt be held responsible for the actions of a rogue director who most 
likely made the switches on Mr Js account. While I recognise its frustration, there are 
ultimately problems with its position:
- Mr X was part of Key Choice at the relevant time. It had to take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems. Its former director appears to have been performing 
unregulated activities for its clients, and that shouldnt have happened.
- It hasnt been able to show it made any attempt to contact Mr J about his pension 
since the disputed switch happened. It had to pay due regard to the interests of 
its customers and treat them fairly  I think the onus was on it to make reasonable 
attempts to provide Mr J with the advice he was paying for under the terms of the 
agreement both parties had struck.
Key Choice shouldve had at least one annual meeting with Mr J between early 2018 and 
early 2020. I agree with the Investigator, that had this been the case I think it wouldve 
recommended he invest his cash along similar lines to its instruction to Novia in 2020 prior to 
removing itself as servicing agent for his SIPP. 
Theres a question then about what Mr Js response wouldve been. And the answer isnt as 
straight-forward as it might seem. Im mindful of the potential influence of his relationship 
with Key Choices former director. Theres a suggestion from Key Choice that Mr J mayve 
been preparing to move his arrangements to an alternative provider under Mr Xs advice. 
Hence being in cash.
After a lot of consideration, Ive given Mr J the benefit of the doubt here. Thats because I 
think had he been in receipt of Key Choices formal advice, this wouldve alerted him to 
potential losses of remaining in cash for any length of time and at that point I think hed have 
been prompted to act in his self-interest. His reaction to realising hed been left in cash for 18 
months in August 2019 supports this finding.
Im also mindful some of Mr Js testimony has been inconsistent. For example, when 
responding to the action of Key Choice to switch his funds into investments before it severed 
links with him in 2020, his response suggested he thought this had been a big mistake and 
that there was an argument to remain in cash. Yet his latest arguments on redress indicate 
he thinks he shouldve been moved into higher risk funds than he was. 
Again, Ive given Mr J the benefit of the doubt. I think these contradictions are probably 
driven by pique given his relationship with Key Choice and the fact that he isnt experienced 
in financial matters. And more latterly I think hes bringing hindsight to bear.  
Mr J thought hed been disadvantaged by Key Choices actions in January 2020,
when it removed itself as servicing agent for his SIPP and invested his money in a balanced
risk fund. He thought it would be more difficult to move away from Novia; would cost him 
more money; and that the decision to invest without his consent was inappropriate.
Mr J signed a client agreement which allows either party to terminate the arrangement by 
providing seven days notice. Key Choice were therefore allowed to cancel the contract and 
given the state of the relationship between the parties, that seems an inevitable outcome 
and in both their interests.Novia informed the Investigator that the investment of Mr Js SIPP by Key Choice in January 
2020 would have no impact on his ability to transfer his pension elsewhere. No extra costs 
would apply as a result of Key Choice taking the decision to invest his SIPP before removing 
itself as servicing agent. 
Key Choice invested Mr Js cash without his consent. I think that was wrong. Nevertheless, 
when I consider the impact, it mitigated his losses and its action have been shown to have 
been in his best interests. Like the Investigator, I cant see this caused a loss. 
In bringing his complaint I can see that Mr J estimated his loss as around £58,000. Hes 
never provided any evidence to support his case. I think his estimate is a substantial 
overstatement of the impact.
In responding to the Investigators recommendations, Mr J said that he thought the 
assumption made for his risk appetite linked to the proposed redress had been incorrect. Ive 
considered the points hes raised and have concluded that the approach taken by the 
Investigator to use the most recent risk profile analysis from 2017 was reasonable.
Mr J said the Investigator had failed to ask him to provide further evidence in support of his 
case. This assertion is wrong. When I reviewed the file its clear hes been given ample 
opportunity to engage. I can confirm Ive read the further documentation he provided after 
the Investigator again asked him to submit any information he thought was relevant.
Putting things right
I require Key Choice Financial Planning Ltd to put things right in the following way:
Calculate the notional value of Mr Js SIPP at 6 January 2020, had his funds been invested 
in the LF Prudential Risk Managed Passive Fund 2 from when his pension was moved into 
cash in 2018. If Key Choice doesnt have the date when this happened Mr J will need to 
provide evidence of such.
Key Choice should compare the notional value calculated with the actual value of Mr Js 
pension at 6 January 2020. If this shows a loss, this will form part of the compensation due.
If there is a loss, Key Choice will then need to assume this sum would have enjoyed the 
same investment performance as his SIPP funds since 6 January 2020 until the date of 
settlement. Again, Mr J will need to provide Key Choice with the necessary evidence or give 
it authority to access such information it requires, to enable it to undertake the calculation.
Any compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Js SIPP. The payment should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be 
paid into the SIPP if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr J as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement.
I understand Key Choice has already refunded £774.54 of adviser fees. If this is the case it 
can subtract this from any compensation payment owed to Mr J. This is because the adviser 
fees wouldve been paid by Mr J for him to have benefited from the position this redress will 
now place him in.My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding this complaint. I require Key Choice 
Financial Planning Ltd to pay compensation to Mr J in line with the redress Ive outlined 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman