DRN-4131838
The complaint
Mr N complains Amtrust Europe Limited unfairly declined a claim against his Landlords 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr N owns a property he rents to tenants and held Landlords insurance with Amtrust which 
covered things such as storm damage, and an escape of water, amongst other things. In 
mid-2022, he visited the property after his tenant stopped paying rent and left. He found 
water damage on the first and ground floor. He says water appeared to spread downwards 
in close proximity to fresh water and central heating pipes. So, he raised a claim to his 
broker. 
Amtrust sent a loss adjuster to Mr Ns property. They concluded, broadly, that damage 
wasnt due to a one-off insured event and was the result of water ingress occurring over 
time. And the inspection found previous repairs, and failed mortar, which supported this. 
Following this visit, Amtrust declined the claim referring to the policy terms. 
Mr N wasnt happy with the way in which the loss adjuster carried out their inspection, or 
their findings. He says they came in without equipment and failed to identify the correct 
cause of damage. Mr N thinks its due to thunderstorms that occurred in mid-May 2022, 
and/or an escape of water. He says he had the water tested in a laboratory which concluded 
fresh water had been seeping into the walls. And says Amtrust should have sent a leak 
detection specialist rather than a loss adjuster  as the loss adjuster recommended a leak 
specialist be appointed in their report, but Amtrust ignored this. Mr N complained to Amtrust. 
Amtrust responded to the complaint to say the rainfall recorded around the time Mr N says 
there was a storm shouldnt be considered as sufficient enough to cause water ingress to a 
well-maintained property. And the loss adjuster found damage internally on both stories of 
the property, to both the rear and side external walls. As such, they maintained their claim 
decision, but paid Mr N £100 compensation for some service issues. Mr N remained 
unhappy and asked our Service for an impartial review. 
The investigator concluded Amtrust handled the claim fairly by appointing a loss adjuster 
and acted reasonably when relying on their report to decline the claim. Mr N didnt agree. He 
says, broadly, Amtrust failed to find the cause of damage, they should have sent a leak 
detection specialist, and maintains damage was cause by storm conditions and/or an escape 
of water. As he didnt agree, the case was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy sets out the list of insured perils it responds to. And its for a policyholder to 
demonstrate theyve suffered a loss as the result of a listed peril. Here, Mr N says either a 
storm on 18 and 19 May 2022 and/or an escape of water was the cause, and Amtrusts loss 
adjuster failed to correctly investigate this. 
While Mr N says the loss adjuster failed to identify the main cause of damage, I dont agree. 
I say this because the loss adjuster  in their professional opinion  deemed the damage to 
be due to an ingress of water over a period of time due to the gradual deterioration of the 
property. And the damage wasnt consistent with a one-off insured event  such as a storm 
or an escape of water. So, while I understand Mr N doesnt agree with these conclusions, its 
fair to say the loss adjuster did reach a conclusion on what they considered to be the cause. 
They say they found evidence of previous, external repairs, and external mortar had failed 
with cracks, gaps, and holes, which supported their conclusions. They provided photographs 
within their report to support their findings. 
While Mr N disagrees with these conclusions, Im satisfied Amtrust took reasonable steps to 
validate the claim when sending a loss adjuster to inspect the damage. And its reasonable 
for an insurer to rely on the conclusions drawn by professionals when considering whether 
the policy should respond to circumstances reported by a policyholder. As mentioned above, 
its for Mr N to demonstrate hes suffered a loss as the result of an insured peril. He says 
either a storm and/or an escape of water was the cause, so Ill address each point in turn. 
In cases involving potential storm damage, our Service has a well-established approach. 
The starting point is considering the following three questions: 
Were storm conditions present on or around the time damage was said to have 
occurred? 
Is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage a storm usually causes? 
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no, its unlikely I would expect an insurer to meet 
such a claim. Mr N says a storm occurred on 18 and 19 May 2022, so Ive checked the 
weather records from this time. The records were taken from a weather station roughly eight 
miles from Mr Ns property, so I think these records provide a reasonable indication of the 
likely weather conditions around the area Mr Ns property is situated. 
The policy doesnt define a storm, but generally Id expect to see weather records showing 
torrential rain accompanied by high winds for conditions to be considered a storm. Having 
reviewed the weather records, while they show some bad weather was likely present, Im not 
persuaded conditions were so poor they should be considered a storm. While it seems there 
was some heavy rainfall (maximum hourly of 5mm) with a peak gust of 37mph, I wouldnt 
expect these conditions to cause damage to a well-maintained property. It follows Im 
satisfied the answer to the first question above is no. As such, I wont go on to consider 
questions two and three under the storm section of the policy because I dont think Mr Ns 
storm claim should succeed. 
Mr N says damage occurred within close proximity of fresh water and central heating pipes. 
And he says following tests of water samples at a laboratory, it was found the water seeping 
into the walls was fresh water. He argues Amtrust ought to have sent a leak detection 
specialist to validate the claim, rather than a loss adjuster who in fact recommended this 
happen in their report. He also says the policy covers trace and access so Amtrust should 
have taken steps to identify the leak he thinks is on a pipe in the cavity wall between the 
upstairs flooring, and downstairs ceiling. The trace and access section of the policy Mr N 
refers to states: 
g. trace and access If there is a leak from your fixed water or oil tanks, apparatus or pipes we will pay for the 
necessary and reasonable expense you incur in locating the source of the leak 
[emphasis by me] and making the necessary repairs 
This  in my view  suggests the policy will respond to costs a policyholder incurs in tracing 
a leak, accessing it, and making repairs. It doesnt state Amtrust will send an engineer to 
carry out trace and access works to try to locate a potential leak a policyholder thinks might 
be present. So, if Mr N can demonstrate a leak is occurring and causing the damage, the 
onus is on him to provide supporting evidence regarding the same. Im not currently 
persuaded on balance, based on the evidence available, Mr N has demonstrated a leak is 
present, and an escape of water is the main cause of damage  and in turn Amtrust acted 
unfairly when relying on their loss adjusters report to decline the claim. 
In concluding, Im not persuaded Amtrust acted unfairly when appointing a loss adjuster to 
validate the claim. Nor am I satisfied to agree it was unreasonable for them to rely on the 
loss adjusters findings to decline the claim based on the information currently available. Ive 
also thought about whether Mr N has a successful claim under the accidental damage, and 
loss of rent sections of the policy. Ive addressed each section below in turn. 
Mr N held accidental damage cover which responds to physical damage caused suddenly, 
unexpectedly, and not through wear and tear. The policy also specifically excludes damage 
that happens gradually, which is what the loss adjuster concluded happened here. I dont 
think a claim for accidental damage should be successful under the policy here given Ive not 
been persuaded to agree with Mr N that the loss adjusters findings were incorrect, and the 
damage was the result of a storm and/or an escape of water. 
The loss of rent section says Amtrust will not pay: 
b) for loss of rent arising from tenants leaving the buildings without giving you notice
c) rent the tenants have not paid 
d) for loss of rent to any buildings that were unoccupied immediately before the insured 
event giving rise to the claim 
I understand Mr N relies on the rental income from this property. But he also says the reason 
why he visited the property before identifying the water damage that gave rise to the claim 
was because his tenants stopped paying rent. And when he arrived at the property, he found 
the tenants had left. So, based on the circumstances of this claim, and the policy wording, I 
dont think Mr Ns loss of rent claim should be met  after all, no insured event has been 
established. I appreciate Mr N has said in previous correspondence, he wasnt looking to 
make a claim under this policy section. However, Ive considered this as part of my decision 
for completeness. It follows, I dont require Amtrust to take any further action here. 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr N. But it ends what we  in 
attempting to resolve his dispute with Amtrust  can do for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, my final decision is I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman