DRN-1576896
 
The complaint
Mr F complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy sold to Mr F in 2005, in connection with a further 
advance he took out on a mortgage hed arranged out in 2002. The policy provided cover for 
Mr F if he couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Fs case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
-    If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr Fs needs?
-    Did Halifax give Mr F the information he needed to decide whether to take out the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
F is worse off as a result. That is, would he have done something different  such as not 
taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr F says he took the policy out with his original mortgage in 2002. He says Halifax told him 
he had to take out the PPI to get the borrowing he wanted. But from the evidence Halifax 
has provided, I think it's more likely that the PPI was sold in 2005 when Mr F arranged a 
further advance. 
The difficulty I have is that I can't be sure what was discussed between Mr F and Halifax 
when the borrowing was arranged. I'm also mindful that these events took place many years 
ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.But I note that the PPI was listed in Mr F's mortgage offer as 'Optional Insurance.' And from 
what I've seen, there was nothing else in the documentation to suggest that buying the PPI 
was a condition of getting the borrowing.
So without anything else to support what Mr F has told me, I don't think I can fairly or 
reasonably say that Halifax didn't make him aware that he had a choice about buying the 
PPI.
Halifax accepts that it probably advised Mr F to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it 
was unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
Mr F was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions. 
Mr F says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work due to 
sickness or accident. But the policy would have paid out in addition to Mr Fs 
employer sick pay, and wouldve meant he could use those benefits to pay for other 
expenses if he couldnt work. Mr F has also mentioned death benefits he had in 
place. But those benefits would've only been paid in the event of death, and so the 
PPI didn't duplicate those benefits. Overall I think Mr F would have had some use for 
the policy despite his existing arrangements.
Mr F wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely Mr F needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and 
limitations.
The policy's cost was set out in Mr F's mortgage offer. So it seems he knew what he 
would be paying for the policy and found it acceptable. The policy was competitively 
priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr F would have made a 
different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But as Ive already said, Mr F wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy was reasonably priced. So I think it unlikely Mr F would have made 
a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think he would still 
have taken out the policy.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman