DRN-2110575
The complaint
Mr E complains about the way Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc handled a claim under his 
legal expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Ecclesiastical, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
Mr E made a claim under his policy to pursue legal action against his former employer. Hes 
unhappy with the way this was handled by Ecclesiastical and Ive identified his main 
concerns to be as follows:
the time taken to progress the claim meant that he had insufficient time to lodge the 
claim in the employment tribunal before the limitation date. So, hes lost the 
opportunity to take this claim forward.
the operating process was not explained to him including the need for a merits 
assessment to be conducted. 
there is a conflict of interest which has had a bearing on the outcome.
he was incorrectly told that he couldnt use a solicitor of his own choice to represent 
him in his claim. 
Ecclesiastical acknowledge that it didnt deal with all Mr Es correspondence within its 
service standards of five working days. And so, it offered £100 compensation for these 
delays. But Mr E wasnt happy with this outcome and brought a complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that not all delays were attributable to 
Ecclesiastical. And that £100 compensation was reasonable for the ones it was responsible 
for. She was satisfied Ecclesiastical informed Mr E of the progress to take the claim forward, 
including the need for a merits assessment by panel solicitors. She also explained that the 
policy didnt provide cover for Mr Es own choice of solicitors at that stage of the claim and 
that no conflict of interest had been identified.
As the outcome of the merits assessment was unknown at the time this complaint was 
raised, Mr Es concerns regarding this are being addressed as a separate matter.
Mr E disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im mindful that there is a three-month time limit to log a dispute in the employment tribunal 
which wouldve started when Mr Es employment came to an end. As Mr E complains about 
the time taken to progress his claim, Ive looked at the timeline of events.
23 November 2019 Mr E left his employment
23 December 2020 Mr E made a claim under his policy
24 December 2020 Ecclesiastical acknowledged the claim
3 January 2020 Following its return from the Christmas break, Ecclesiastical reviewed 
the claim. It emailed Mr E requesting the information it required to 
complete its assessment. 
4 January 2020 Mr E raised concerns that there was a conflict of interest.
7 January 2020 Claim handlers responded to advise why it didnt believe there was a 
conflict of interest that prevented the claim being handled and again 
asked for the information it needed to progress the claim. 
8 January 2020 Mr E advises that hes still concerned about a conflict. He doesnt 
provide the requested information. And asks for a call on 10 January.
10 January 2020 Mr E chases for a response.
17 January 2020 Mr E calls for an update and logs a complaint about the lack of 
response. He advises that he wont be sending the requested 
information until hes reassured about the conflict situation. 
Claim handlers responded by email the same day with reassurances 
that the claim could be handled without a conflict of interest arising. 
Following this, Mr E provided the requested information.
22 January 2020 Mr E chased for a response.
31 January 2020 Ecclesiastical spoke to Mr E to ascertain whether he was happy to use 
a panel firm of solicitors. It advised him that prior to issuing court 
proceedings, the policy only covers the cost of a panel firm. It also 
informed Mr E of his obligation to log his dispute with ACAS and follow 
the early conciliation process. 
3 February 2020 Ecclesiastical instructed its panel firm of solicitors. A letter was sent to 
Mr E the same day informing him of the next steps including that a 
merits assessment would be carried out.
7 February 2020 Ecclesiastical issued its final response letter to the complaint. And for 
the reasons explained by our investigator, Im unable to consider 
anything after this date under this complaint. 
Delays
I can see that there were two occasions when Ecclesiastical didnt respond to Mr E within its 
five working day service standard. Although I appreciate it did email Mr E to let him know 
that it was operating on a 5-9 working day turnaround. 
In any event, Ecclesiastical had Mr Es claim a little over a month before it instructed 
solicitors. Im mindful that this included the Christmas break and the time taken for Mr E to send it the information requested to progress the claim. Therefore, Im satisfied the £100 
compensation offered is enough for the delays Ecclesiastical is responsible for.
Merits assessment
Mr E says he wasnt informed of the operating process to progress his claim. But on review 
of the file, Im satisfied that Ecclesiastical explained to Mr E what it needed at each juncture 
in order to progress the claim. 
Mr E mentions that he wasnt informed of the need for a merits assessment until he was told 
by the solicitors 11 days before his deadline. However, I can see that Ecclesiasticals letter 
dated 3 February 2020 said: 
The first thing you need to know is the legal strength of your claim. Your lawyer will make an 
assessment of your case and advise you of the outcome and the options available to you. 
Your legal expenses policy will cover the cost of this assessment and, providing the lawyer 
confirms that your case has a reasonable chance of succeeding (i.e. above 50%), we will 
continue to fund your legal costs.
As such, I dont agree that Mr E wasnt told about the operating process. 
Conflict of interest 
I appreciate Mr Es concerns that there would be a conflict of interest regarding his claim. 
Hes also concerned that Ecclesiastical didnt get to grips with the reasons why there could 
be a conflict and that hed had to discuss the issue with multiple people. 
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied Mr E was reassured that a conflict didnt exist in respect to 
the handling of his claim. He was informed of this from as early as 7 January 2020. But Mr E 
waited until 17 January 2020 to send his requested information.
Mr E believes that the outcome of the merits assessment of his claim is a consequence of a 
conflict of interest. Whilst Im not considering the outcome of the merits assessment as part 
of this complaint, Im not persuaded that a conflict of interest had occurred in this case. 
Its a matter of course that a solicitor appointed under the policy would carry out their own 
conflict checks to ensure they could act. And indeed, Ecclesiastical explained to Mr E why 
there wasnt a conflict. If Mr E has any concern over the solicitors conduct, he should direct 
this to the Legal Ombudsman.
Freedom of choice
Both as a matter of law, and under the terms and conditions of the policy, policyholders 
generally cant choose their own solicitor to act on their behalf until its necessary to issue 
legal proceedings. Regulation 6 of the Insurance Companies (Legal Expenses Insurance) 
Regulations 1990 says: 
where under a legal expenses insurance contract recourse is had to a lawyer (or other 
person having such qualifications as may be necessary) to defend, represent or serve the 
interests of the insured in any inquiry or proceedings, the insured shall be free to choose that 
lawyer (or other person)
The phase any inquiry or proceedings means when it becomes necessary to issue court 
proceedings, or proceedings in another formal place of inquiry. Mr Es case never reached 
that stage.But there are times when its fair and reasonable to allow a policyholder to instruct their 
choice of solicitor sooner, for example, if theres a conflict of interest which means a panel 
firm of solicitors cant act; or if the matter is particularly complex and needs specialist advice.
As Ive explained, Im not persuaded there was a conflict of interest that meant a panel firm 
of solicitors couldnt act for Mr E. Furthermore, I havent seen anything to demonstrate that 
Mr Es claim was so complex it needed to be dealt with differently. 
As such, Im satisfied Ecclesiastical was entitled to inform Mr E that he didnt have freedom 
to choose his own solicitors in late January / early February 2020. He had not completed the 
ACAS early conciliation process and therefore was not at a stage where court proceedings 
were necessary.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman