DRN-4049520
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc stopped two payments he tried to make.
What happened
Mr F tried to make a payment via internet banking. The payment was stopped from 
completing by HSBCs automated fraud prevention systems, which flagged the payment for 
further checks and restricted Mr Fs online banking pending those further checks. HSBC 
attempted to call Mr F to allow him to verify the flagged transfer but were unable to reach 
him. This meant Mr Fs online banking access was only restored two days later, when he 
realised the attempted payment hadnt gone through and so contacted HSBC about it.
Following Mr Fs call to HSBC, he attempted the payment again. But again, the attempted 
payment was flagged by HSBCs automated systems and Mr Fs online banking was again 
restricted. Mr F wasnt happy about this, especially as he then had to make the payment via 
alternative means. So, he raised a complaint.
HSBC responded to Mr Fs complaint. They didnt feel theyd acted unfairly by flagging the 
payment in the first instance. But they did feel that when Mr F had called them the first time, 
their agent should have offered to complete the payment with Mr F so as to avoid what later 
happened  that the reattempted payment was flagged and stopped for a second time. 
HSBC apologised to Mr F for the poor service in this regard, and they made a payment of 
£100 to him as compensation for any upset and inconvenience he may have incurred. Mr F 
wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response HSBC had 
issued to Mr Fs complaint, including the apology and the payment of £100 compensation, 
already represented a fair resolution to what had happened. Mr F remained dissatisfied, so 
the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that HSBC have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. Such declarations would 
be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
In this instance, Mr F is unhappy that his attempted payment was stopped by HSBCs 
automated fraud prevention systems. Fraud prevention systems are used by financial 
institutions to flag account activity that may be of concern and to prevent further usage of an 
account where its felt that there is a possibility that fraud may be potentially occurring. 
Indeed, financial institutions such as HSBC have an obligation to employ such systems in 
order to comply with banking regulations which require banks to have systems in place to 
protect their customers accounts, as much as possible, from acts of attempted fraud.
 
Additionally, its incumbent on banks to employ these systems with a degree of vigilance  to 
err on the side of caution, as it were  which unfortunately means that there will be instances 
where legitimately authorised transfers are flagged erroneously by the fraud prevention 
systems. And this appears to be what happened in this instance.
 
As such, I dont feel that HSBC did act unfairly towards Mr F by stopping his attempted 
payment in the first instance, or by placing restrictions on Mr Fs online banking until the 
legitimacy of the attempted payment could be confirmed. And I note that HSBC did attempt 
to contact Mr F to confirm whether the attempted payment was legitimate but were unable to 
do so. And following that contact attempt, I dont feel it was unreasonable for HSBC to have 
waited for Mr F to have noticed the restrictions on his account or that his attempted payment 
hadnt completed and to have contacted HSBC about it. 
So, up to the point that Mr F called HSBC, having noticed that his attempted payment hadnt 
gone through and that his online banking was restricted, I dont feel that HSBC acted unfairly 
or did anything wrong. But I do feel that Mr F didnt receive a fair standard of service from 
HSBC from this point onwards, and that Mr F has incurred a degree of upset and 
inconvenience as a result. 
Notably, HSBC are agreement with my position here, and they accept that when Mr F called 
them in the first instance that their agent should have offered to complete the payment Mr F 
was attempting to make with him at that time, which would have negated the possibility of  
Mr F encountering further problems as he did. And HSBC confirmed that, following Mr Fs 
reattempt of the payment being flagged by their systems for the second time, that they 
should have attempted to contact Mr F in the same manner theyd attempted to in the first 
instance, but that no attempt in the second instance had been made. 
HSBC have apologised to Mr F for the poor service he received in this regard, and theyve 
made a payment of £100 to him as compensation for any upset and inconvenience he may 
have incurred as a result.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, and Im aware that Mr F feels that a higher 
amount of compensation should be warranted here. However, the £100 that HSBC have 
already paid to Mr F does feel like a fair amount to me, given the circumstances of this 
complaint, and I can confirm that its commensurate with what I might have instructed HSBC 
to have paid for the poor service Mr F received from them, had they not already done so.
My position here is influenced by the fact that I dont feel HSBC acted unfairly towards Mr F 
until the time of the first call he made to them following the blocking of the first attempted 
payment. As such, Im only considering the upset and inconvenience that Mr F may have 
incurred following the blocking of the reattempted payment in the second instance, including 
that Mr F felt it necessary to complete the payment via an alternative means. And Ive also 
arrived at this position in consideration of the general framework by which this service 
evaluates awards for upset and inconvenience  further details of which can be found on this 
services website. 
This isnt to say that I dont feel that Mr F has been inconvenienced or frustrated here. 
Indeed, I accept that he has been both inconvenienced and frustrated. And I note Mr Fs 
displeasure with HSBCs systems and staff as hes explained them to this service. But as explained earlier, this service isnt a regulatory body, and so it isnt within my remit 
here to instruct HSBC to make changes to their systems or policies. And, regarding the 
frustration and trouble that Mr F has incurred which I do feel is unfair  which to confirm is 
from Mr F having to reattempt the transfer in the second instance and that second attempted 
transfer being blocked, and until Mr F was then able to complete the payment via alternative 
means  I feel that the £100 compensation already paid to him by HSBC is a fair amount.
I note that Mr F feels that the effects of HSBCs actions are ongoing here, including on his 
mental health and his relationship with the intended payment recipient. But Mr F was able to 
make the payment via alternative means. And while I dont mean to trivialise the mental 
health or relationship issues that Mr F has raised here, I dont feel that I can reasonably 
instruct a higher compensation payment than the £100 Mr F has already received for HSBC 
blocking the attempted payment and restricting Mr Fs account for the second time.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr F was wanting, but it follows from all the above that I 
feel the response HSBC have issued to his complaint, including the payment of £100 
compensation, already represents a fair resolution to what happened. And it follows from this 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing HSBC to take any further action. 
I hope that Mr F will understand, given everything Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman