DRN-1596977
 
The complaint
Mrs M complains that AXA France IARD ("AXA") mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. The claim is brought on her behalf by a claims management 
company. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card that Mrs M took out in 2003 
when she was in a store. The PPI covered Mrs M if she couldnt work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. 
Its been agreed that AXA, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint. To 
keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld, concluding that there 
wasn't enough evidence to show that the optional nature of the policy had been made clear.
AXA didnt agree saying, in summary, that Mrs M would have been asked to opt for PPI on 
the store card agreement, but it can't provide a copy of that agreement because of the time 
that's elapsed. AXA also said details of the policy would have been sent to Mrs M and if she 
hadn't agreed to take the policy, she could have cancelled it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
 AXA had to make Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional. AXA can't supply a copy of the 
agreement Mrs M would have completed and which, it says, would have evidenced that Mrs 
M agreed to take the PPI. It's not surprising AXA can't supply the agreement from such a 
long time ago. But I've not seen enough evidence to persuade me that the optional nature of 
the policy was made clear, or that Mrs M chose to take the PPI.
AXA says information about the policy would have been sent to Mrs M and that she could 
have cancelled the policy if she didn't want it. But this does not change my conclusion. 
Overall, I don't think the optional nature of the policy was made clear to Mrs M at the point of 
sale. If it had been, I don't think Mrs M would have taken the PPI. 
Putting things right
 AXA should put Mrs M in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.If Mrs Ms store card account is still open:
The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and:
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs M would owe on her card if the policy hadnt 
been added to it. 
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs M owes and what she would 
have owed.
If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 
B. If  when AXA works out what Mrs M would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs M paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple 
interest (at 8% a year) on the extra Mrs M paid. And it should carry on paying interest 
until the point when Mrs M wouldve owed AXA something on her card. 
 
C. AXA should tell Mrs M what its done to work out A and B.
 
if Mrs Ms store card account is now closed:
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs M would have owed when she closed her store 
card.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs M owed when she closed 
she account and what she wouldve owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. AXA should add simple interest (at 8% a year) on the difference between what Mrs 
M wouldve owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she 
gets the refund. 
 
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs M would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs M paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple 
interest (at 8% a year) on the extra Mrs M paid. And it should carry on paying interest 
until the point when Mrs M wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. 
 
D. AXA should tell Mrs M what its done to work out A, B and C.
 In either case, if the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs M that relates 
to this PPI sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mrs 
M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. AXA France IARD should pay compensation 
as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman