DRN-3439842
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim they made 
under their motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had a motor insurance policy with Aviva. In February 2020 they noticed a slow 
tyre pressure leak from one of their front wheels. They contacted Aviva and said the wheel 
had been damaged by a pothole and they wanted to discuss their options. They decided not 
to make a claim at that point because they wanted to raise the issue with Highways England. 
At about the same time, Mr and Mrs S were told that both front wheels were cracked and 
needed replacing. They spent about £1,700 replacing both wheels. 
Mr and Mrs S called Aviva again in September 2020 to provide an update and discuss their 
options. They then made a claim in June 2021. But Aviva declined the claim because it said 
it couldnt determine the cause of the damage to the wheels, or whether it was one incident 
or more.
Mr and Mrs S complained they hadnt been told when theyd first contacted Aviva theyd 
need to provide photographs of the damage. Had they been told, they said they could have 
kept hold of the images. They said they wanted Aviva to honour their original claim. Aviva 
said it had listened to the calls theyd made and they were satisfied the call handler had said 
Mr and Mrs S would need to provide the invoice for the new wheels and images of the 
damage if they wanted to proceed with the claim. Aviva was also satisfied the claim had 
been declined correctly. It apologised for the delay in notifying them of that decision.
Mr and Mrs S continued to dispute the claim and Aviva reviewed the matter. It maintained its 
view that it had told them theyd need to submit photographs when they claimed. But it 
disagreed with the claim decision. It said that decision had been based on two wheels being 
damaged and the engineer had thought it was unlikely both wheels would have been 
damaged by a pothole in one incident. As Mr and Mrs S had first reported damage to one 
wheel, it said it could have confirmed cover for that wheel. And dealt with the second wheel 
as a second claim. But it noted that the cost of replacing each wheel independently was 
significantly less than the excess Mr and Mrs S would have to pay on each claim, and it 
would be left with nothing to reimburse them for. Mr and Mrs S remained unhappy and 
brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think Aviva needed to take any further action as he thought the 
approach it had taken was fair and reasonable. As Mr and Mrs S disagreed with our 
investigators view, their complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S have raised a few issues and Ill consider each in turn.
Photographs
Mr and Mrs S said Aviva hadnt told them they would need to keep photographic evidence. 
Had it done so, they say they would have retained the images of the damage and that might 
have made a difference when Aviva assessed their claim. Ive listened to the two calls they 
made to Aviva in February and September 2020. In both calls, Aviva explained the options 
they could take and said that, if they did want to make a claim, it would need an invoice for 
the new wheels and images of the damage. So, Im satisfied Aviva did tell Mr and Mrs S of 
the need to provide relevant photographic images of the damage.
Delay in communicating the claim decision
Aviva didnt notify Mr and Mrs S their claim had been declined until 12 days after the 
decision had been made. And even then it was only because Mr and Mrs S called Aviva to 
see if a decision had been made. But Aviva has acknowledged and apologised for the delay 
and I think thats a reasonable way of putting things right. I dont think it needs to do anything 
more. 
The claim
When Aviva reviewed its decision to decline the claim, it said it had got it wrong. It said the 
decision to decline the claim had been based on two wheels being damaged. Its engineer 
didnt think it was likely that two wheels would be damaged by one pothole in the same 
incident, so declined the claim. But when Aviva reviewed the claim, it realised Mr and Mrs S 
had only mentioned one wheel when theyd first notified Aviva. So, it thought the claim 
should have been accepted. But it said it would have dealt with each damaged wheel 
independently, as two claims. It went on to explain that as it would have applied an excess to 
each claim, and the excess was £1300 plus a further £200 as the wheels were replaced by a 
non-approved repairer, there would be nothing to reimburse. This was because each wheel 
cost about £850 to replace and that was significantly less than the total amount of £1500 
Aviva would charge for each claim by way of an excess.
Having carefully considered the evidence, I think the approach taken by Aviva was fair. It 
explained why it would deal with the damage as two claims and I think thats reasonable. Its 
engineer didnt think it was likely that both wheels would have been damaged by one pothole 
in one incident. And as a pothole wouldnt normally be wide enough to damage both offside 
and nearside wheels at the same time, I think that was fair. If the pothole was of a size big 
enough to damage both wheels at the same time, Id expect other vehicles to have been 
affected and Highways England to have been made aware. And Ive not seen any evidence 
of that. So, I think it was reasonable for Aviva to treat the damage to each wheel as two 
separate claims on the basis it was more likely than not the damage was caused by two 
separate incidents.
Mr and Mrs S said theyve got excess insurance, which covers them for the cost of some or 
all of the excess payments Aviva would charge if they decided to pursue their claim further. 
So, they said they dont necessarily mind being charged a lot of excess. Aviva responded to 
that by offering to put Mr and Mrs S in contact with its claims team if they wanted to pursue 
their claim. I think thats fair as, ultimately, its for Mr and Mrs S to decide if they want to take 
things further.  
In summary, Aviva made some mistakes when handling Mr and Mrs Ss claim. There was a 
delay in telling them their claim had been declined. And that decision on their claim was 
flawed. But Im satisfied that Aviva has done enough to put matters right. It apologised for 
the delay in telling them the claim was declined. And it reviewed and overturned the decision 
to decline the claim. Mr and Mrs S werent happy with the outcome of that review but Im satisfied it was fair to treat the damage to both wheels as two separate claims.
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has already apologised for the poor service provided and I think that 
was a fair and reasonable response in all the circumstances. I dont think it needs to do 
anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman