DRN-3539128
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs S have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies in 2002, February 2004, October 2004 and 2005.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs S took out the PPI at the same time as arranging the mortgages. Although 
they were joint mortgages, the first two policies were set up just to cover Mr B. The last two 
policies covered both Mr B and Mrs S.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Lloyds didnt respond to the adjudicators view and so 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold the complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr B and Mrs S say they werent told anything about the policies and that they didnt know 
the PPI had been added to the mortgage accounts  meaning that the policies were added 
without their knowledge or consent.
Lloyds hasnt provided any evidence in relation to the first three sales. For the fourth sale, 
which was made over the phone, it has provided a copy of the teledirect loan assessment 
form. In relation to PPI, the business use section of the form has a tick next to a yes box to 
denote that PPI is to be added. But there is nothing to show that Mr B and Mrs S were asked 
if they wanted the policy and actively given a choice about having it. There is also no 
evidence that they were provided with any information about the policy, such as the cost and 
benefits or any significant clauses. The form has a space where the cost of the policy can be 
recorded but this has been left blank.
This is an unusual case because there isnt much evidence from the times of the sales, such 
as any paperwork for the mortgages or the PPI. Lloyds has been asked, on more than one 
occasion, to provide any more information it may wish to, but it has not responded. It also did 
not respond to the adjudicators uphold view.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as it is here), inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
decision based on the evidence that we do have and what I consider is most likely to have 
happened.
Lloyds needed to present the PPI it sold to Mr B and Mrs S as optional. Because, if it didnt 
make that clear, that would restrict their ability to choose if they wanted the policy or not in 
their circumstances. I havent seen anything to show that Mr B and Mrs S were told about 
the policies or actively confirmed that they wanted them. On balance, Im not persuaded that 
Mr B and Mrs S were given a choice about buying the PPI.
Based on the available evidence, I have some other concerns about the sales, such as if Mr 
B and Mrs S were given sufficient information about how much the policies would cost. 
However, I am satisfied that the failure to make it clear that the PPI policies were optional is 
a sufficient ground in itself to uphold the complaint.
Putting things right
Lloyds should put Mr B and Mrs S in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. Therefore, for each policy, Lloyds should:
Pay Mr B and Mrs S the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If a successful claim was made under any of the PPI policies, Lloyds can take off what 
Mr B and Mrs S got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr B and Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr B and Mrs Ss complaint and require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay 
fair compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman