DRN-4087602
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank Plc treated him unfairly when it didnt get his money back 
for an engagement ring he bought.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr B paid £751 for an engagement ring using his Lloyds credit card, from 
a shop I will call Firm A at their premises. In January 2020 Mr B took the ring back to the 
same premises to be resized and discovered that Firm B had taken over the shop as Firm A 
had ceased trading. Firm B then resized the ring for Mr B. In January 2021 Mr B noticed one 
of the prongs / claws that held the stones (diamond and sapphire) had snapped off on both 
sides of the three stone engagement ring. So he took it to the shop premises and Firm B 
said the issues with the claws were nothing to do with them and he should speak to Firm A. 
Mr B says he researched Firm A and found it had gone into liquidation. So he took this issue 
to Lloyds.
Lloyds considered the matter and noted that Mr B raised the issue to it over 120 days after 
receiving the ring. So it didnt think a Chargeback had a reasonable prospect of success. It 
also considered a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It decided that 
the necessary relationship set out in the Act was not in place for S75 to apply. So it said it 
couldnt be liable for any claim. And hence it didnt consider any further whether the ring was 
of satisfactory quality. Mr B felt that this was unfair, so he brought his complaint to this 
service. Our Investigator looked into the matter and agreed with Lloyds that the necessary 
relationship wasnt in place for Lloyds to be liable under the legislation Ive described.
Mr B didnt agree and pointed to case law and decisions by this service. So this complaint 
came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision on the matter dated 03 April 2023 
which upheld Mr Bs complaint. Both parties have responded to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties accepted my findings. Lloyds confirmed it would redress the matter as Id set 
out in my provisional decision. Mr B confirmed he accepted the provisional decision and 
redress methodology Id set out. Accordingly I see no reason to deviate from that position as 
set out in my provisional decision and so Mr Bs complaint is successful. I shall now set out 
my rationale from my provisional decision here which is given between the headings of 
authorisation through to the heading of summary.
authorisation
Mr B accepts he made the transaction for the engagement ring. He doesnt dispute the 
amount charged or the date it was charged. And it hasnt been argued that it was double 
charged or applied to the wrong account. Considering what has happened here and what the 
parties have said, Im satisfied on balance that Mr B did properly authorise the transaction at 
the time. And accordingly it was correctly allocated to his account by Lloyds.
could Lloyds challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr B does 
here, Lloyds (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process. I dont 
think Lloyds couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr B didnt properly authorise the 
transaction, given the conclusions on this issue that Ive already set out.
Lloyds has said that it couldnt raise a chargeback request due to the time constraints within 
the network rules and due to the time between when Mr B paid for the ring and when he took 
his dispute to Lloyds. Ive looked into what happened here and considered the network rules 
around chargeback and agree it was out of time. Accordingly I dont think Mr B has lost out 
here by Lloyds not raising a chargeback.
Section 75
Here I must consider what Lloyds should do. To do this, I have to decide what I think is fair 
and reasonable, having regard to, amongst other things, any relevant law including both 
legislation and case law. In this case, the relevant starting point is S75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (the Act) which says that, in certain circumstances, if Mr B paid for goods 
or services on his credit card and there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
Supplier, Lloyds can be held responsible.
For claritys sake I shall explain the underpinning legislation concerning the DCS concept 
before explaining my thinking on this case. S75(1) states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c)
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
So s.75 only applies if:
i) There is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement (or DCS agreement, for short) of the 
type that falls within s.12(b) or (c);
ii) That agreement finances the transaction between the debtor (Mr B) and the supplier 
(Firm A); and,
iii)  If, relating to that transaction, the debtor (Mr B) has a claim against the supplier 
(Firm A) in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract. If so, then the 
creditor (Lloyds) is jointly and severally liable to the debtor. 
S.12(b) applies to:  
a restricted use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is made by the 
creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future arrangements, 
between himself and the supplier
S.11(1)(b) defines a restricted-use credit agreement as a regulated consumer credit 
agreement:
to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier) other than the 
creditor
Subsections 11(3) & (4) provide:
"(3) An agreement does not fall within subsection (1) if the credit is in fact provided in such a 
way as to leave the debtor free to use it as he chooses, even though certain uses would 
contravene that or any other agreement.(4) An agreement may fall within subsection (1)(b) although the identity of the supplier is 
unknown at the time the agreement is made."
Section 187 provides:
"(1) A consumer credit agreement shall be treated as entered into under pre-existing 
arrangements between a creditor and a supplier if it is entered into in accordance with, or in 
furtherance of, arrangements previously made between persons mentioned in subsection 
(4)(a), (b) or (c).
(2) A consumer credit agreement shall be treated as entered into in contemplation of future 
arrangements between a creditor and a supplier if it is entered into in the expectation that 
arrangements will subsequently be made between persons mentioned in subsection (4)(a), 
(b) or (c) for the supply of cash, goods and services (or any of them) to be financed by the 
consumer credit agreement.
(3) Arrangements shall be disregarded for the purposes of subsection (1) or (2) if
(a) they are arrangements for the making, in specified circumstances, of payments to the 
supplier by the creditor, and
(b) the creditor holds himself out as willing to make, in such circumstances, payments of the 
kind to suppliers generally.
(4) The persons referred to in subsections (1) and (2) are
(a) the creditor and the supplier;
And s.189 says finance means to wholly or partly finance, and that financed shall be 
construed accordingly.
Historically credit cards worked within a commonplace three-party structure. Specifically that 
there was:
an agreement between the card issuer (the Creditor) and the cardholder (the Debtor) 
to extend credit by paying for goods or services purchased by the cardholder from 
suppliers who had agreed to honour the card; 
an agreement between the card issuer and the Supplier under which the Supplier 
agreed to accept the card in payment and the card issuer agreed to pay the Supplier 
promptly;
an agreement between the cardholder and the Supplier for the purchase of goods or 
services.
As time went by a new type of party entered the market and specifically these types of 
transactions, known as the Merchant Acquirer. This led to the creation of four party 
relationships where instead of the agreement being between the card issuer and the 
supplier, there were two agreements:
an agreement between the merchant acquirer and the supplier, under which the 
supplier undertook to honour the card and the merchant acquirer undertook to pay 
the supplier; and 
an agreement between the merchant acquirer and the card issuer, under which the 
merchant acquirer agreed to pay the supplier and the card issuer undertook to 
reimburse the merchant acquirer.
The impact of this development on the application of S75 was considered by the Court of
Appeal in the case of Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds & others [2006] (the OFT case). The 
Court of Appeal first considered whether the introduction of the four-party structure
meant that the system had evolved significantly beyond the state of affairs to which S75 had
been directed. They concluded that it had not, stating at paragraph 55 of their judgment:
From the customer's point of view  it is difficult to see any justification for drawing a
distinction between the different [three-party and four-party] situations. Indeed, in the case of
those card issuers such as Lloyds TSB, who operate under both three-party and four-party
structures, the customer has no means of knowing whether any given transaction is
conducted under one or other arrangement. Similarly, from the point of view of the cardissuer and the supplier the commercial nature of the relationship is essentially the same:
each benefits from the involvement of the other in a way that makes it possible to regard
them as involved in something akin to a joint venture, just as much as in the case of the
three-party structure.
 They went on to say;
It is clear that, whether the transaction is entered into under a three-party or four-party 
structure, the purpose of the credit agreement is to provide the customer with the means to 
pay for goods or services. It follows that in both cases the card issuer finances the 
transaction between the customer and the supplier by making credit available at the point of 
purchase in accordance with the credit agreement. The fact that it does so through the 
medium of an agreement with the merchant acquirer does not detract from that because it is 
the card issuer's agreement to provide credit to the customer that provides the financial 
basis for the transaction with the supplier.
In the House of Lords in the same case Lord Mance said, in relation to the recruitment of 
overseas suppliers to the network:
30.  That, in today's market, arrangements between card issuers and overseas suppliers 
under schemes such as VISA and MasterCard are indirect (rather than pursuant to a direct 
contract as is still the case with American Express and Diners Club) is a consequence of the 
way in which the VISA and MasterCard networks have developed and operate. Likewise, the 
fact that the rules of these networks give card issuers no direct choice as to the suppliers in 
relation to whom their cards will be used. The choice of suppliers is, in effect, delegated to 
the merchant acquirers in each country in which these networks operate, and provision is 
made, as one would expect, to ensure and monitor the reliability of such suppliers in the 
interests of all network members. That network rules may not provide all the protections that 
they might, e.g. by way of indemnity and/or jurisdiction agreements, is neither here nor there. 
They could in theory do so, and it is apparent that there are some differences in this respect 
between different networks. The Crowther Report and 1974 Act proceed on the basis of a 
relatively simple model which contemplated that card issuers would have direct control of 
such matters. A more sophisticated worldwide network, like VISA or MasterCard, offers both 
card issuers and card holders considerable countervailing benefits. Card issuers make a 
choice, commercially inevitable though it may have become, to join one of these networks, 
for better or worse.
Lord Mance was talking about the conditions that existed almost twenty years ago, because 
the case from which he was hearing an appeal went to trial in 2004. But, I think it is clear that 
even by then the commercial practices by which card networks recruited suppliers had 
evolved by developing a system that left supplier recruitment to intermediaries, and card 
issuers were faced with an essentially commercial decision as to whether to participate in 
network that included suppliers who had been recruited that way.  Since 2004, new 
technology and the growth of internet commerce have opened up additional channels for 
recruiting suppliers and routing payment to them (for example, payment facilitators, which 
are now an established part of the payments industry) and, again, card networks have 
changed their rules and practices in response. 
Having provided some important context to the circumstances in Mr Bs case, I need to now 
establish the exact nature of what happened as best I can and the relation between the 
parties involved. 
The DCS issue
I have considered the particular facts of Mr Bs case. In order for S75 to apply there has to 
have been arrangements between Lloyds and the Firm A (Supplier) to finance transactions between Lloydss cardholders and Firm A. Its clear that there was no direct arrangement 
between them, but this isnt a requirement for the application of S75.
I say this because the Judge who heard the OFT case at first instance ([2005] 1 All ER 843) 
had also considered the meaning of the word arrangements, as used in section 12, and 
whether there existed relevant arrangements between creditors and suppliers (the Firm A 
here) in the four-party situation. He said that the use of the word showed a deliberate 
intention on the part of the draftsman to use broad, loose language, which was to be 
contrasted with the word agreement. In the Court of Appeal, the creditors argued that 
arrangements should be given a narrower meaning that took the four-party structure outside 
the definition. But the Court of Appeal agreed with the Judge that arrangements had been 
used to embrace a wide range of commercial structures having substantially the same effect. 
They held that it was not required for arrangements to be made directly by or between the 
creditor and supplier, merely that arrangements should exist between them, and it was 
difficult to resist the conclusion that such arrangements existed between credit card issuers 
and suppliers who agreed to accept their cards, and stated:
Moreover, we find it difficult to accept that Parliament would have been willing to allow some
consumers to be disadvantaged by the existence of indirect arrangements when other
consumers were protected because the relevant arrangements were direct.
Ive also considered the recent High Court case of Steiner v National Westminster Bank 
(2022) EWHC 2519 (the Steiner case). This case involved payments to a trust for the 
provision of a timeshare supplied by a timeshare provider.  The High Court dismissed the 
claim under s.75 on the basis that the timeshare purchase was not made under a debtor-
creditor-supplier agreement. This was because payment had been made in the first instance 
to the trust company, whereas the claim related to agreement to purchase a timeshare from 
the timeshare provider. Mr Steiners credit card was issued under the MasterCard scheme 
and the trust company was a member of the MasterCard network, but the timeshare provider 
was not. 
The Judge (Lavender J) held that central question was not whether "arrangements" existed 
between the bank and the timeshare provider at the time when Mr and Mrs Steiner had 
entered into their agreement with the timeshare provider and Mr Steiner had used his card to 
pay the trust company. Rather, the question posed by s.12(b) CCA was whether Mr Steiners 
credit card agreement with the bank was made by the creditor (i.e. the bank) under pre-
existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future arrangements, between the creditor 
(i.e. the bank) and the timeshare provider. 
When a bank made an agreement with one of its customers in relation to a card issued by 
the bank to the customer, then the agreement was made under the card network, which 
constituted "arrangements" between the bank and the other members of the network.  So, if 
a supplier was already a member of the card network, the agreement was made "under pre-
existing arrangements ... between the bank and the supplier".  The bank was also aware that 
other merchants were likely to join the card network in the future, so in that respect the 
agreement was made "in contemplation of future arrangements, between the bank and 
merchant who subsequently joins the card network.
However, in the absence of specific factual evidence as to the bank's state of mind, the 
Judge said it was difficult to envisage that a bank which issued a card to its customer and 
made a credit card agreement in relation to that card made that agreement under, or in 
contemplation of, any arrangements other than the card network. And, as the timeshare 
provider was outside the card network, it didnt supply the timeshare under a debtor-creditor-
supplier agreement. 
Is there a DCS agreement? The question of whether Mr Bs transaction took place under a DCS agreement seems to me 
to turn in this case on two matters: first, whether there existed arrangements between Lloyds 
and Firm A for the financing of transactions with Firm As customers; and second, if such 
arrangements existed, whether that was the case when Lloyds entered a credit agreement 
with Mr B or, if the arrangements came into existence after that, whether Lloyds 
contemplated that they would do so. Ill examine those questions in turn.
Arrangements 
Our Investigator looked into the transaction primarily based on the information Lloyds had 
given this service about the presence of a fourth party in the transaction namely PayPal. Our 
investigator contacted PayPal and asked it what its role was in the transaction. PayPal 
responded and has been forthcoming in its role within this transaction and more broadly 
about the services it provides.
PayPal is a well-known provider of a variety of financial transactional services. This includes 
both payment processing and E-Money provision amongst other services. In this particular 
transaction PayPal has provided evidence around this specific transaction including saying:
I can confirm the purchase was made on the merchants website via the customers PayPal 
account as shown below. It then shows two transactions for exactly the same amount of 
money at exactly the same date and time (to the second). One transaction is the amount 
(the cost of the ring) being charged to Mr Bs Lloyds credit card to fund Mr Bs account with 
PayPal. The second transaction is from Mr Bs PayPal account to Firm As account with 
PayPal. PayPal goes on to say:
This means the payment went from the customers PayPal account to the Merchants 
PayPal account and was funded with the card ending (details of Mr Bs Lloyds account).
As we are only the payment processor, I am unable to see the terms of the customers 
agreement with the merchant (Firm A).
The transactional record PayPal has provided shows that Mr Bs account with it was of a 
zero balance immediately before the transaction and returned to zero immediately after the 
transaction. It also shows the status of both transactions being completed and apparently 
instantaneous. It refers to the transaction paid to Firm A as being express checkout 
payment. Such dual transactions are sometimes referred to as back to back transactions.
PayPal explained that Firm A also had an account with it. In essence it appears that Firm A 
had outsourced its payments processes to PayPal in this instance. PayPal has terms and 
conditions including that all applicable network rules must be complied with. And within those 
terms and conditions some networks are named including Mastercard, the network relevant 
here. And Ive also considered the network rules applicable here and this need to comply 
with the network rules is mirrored within those. So Firm A has an agreement with PayPal 
which includes the obligation of adhering to the card network rules here. PayPal is obliged to 
follow the same network rules also. And Lloyds, by using the card scheme here, is bound to 
follow the same card scheme rules as well. And Mr Bs card use is governed by his 
obligations to Lloyds through his contract with it. In essence all parties here all have different 
roles but are all obliged to work within the rules of the network to complete the same 
transaction. 
PayPal has said it acted as a Payment Processor in this transaction. It is clear that this 
transaction from Mr Bs credit card to Firm As account with PayPal is in essence 
instantaneous. The amount debited from Mr Bs account is the same amount in Great British 
Pounds that is credited to Firm As account. It also seems likely here that there is a conversion to E-Money in the transaction from Mr Bs card to his account with PayPal but I 
dont think it makes a difference here and doesnt prevent there from being a DCS 
agreement for reasons I shall give in this decision later.
I should add at this juncture that Lloyds has provided minimal representations to support its 
argument here on DCS. It hasnt provided detail about the exact journey of this transaction 
nor explained why it believes that there is no longer a relevant DCS relationship in regard to 
this transaction other than pointing to the presence of another party. It has not explained why 
the arrangement in this case should be distinguished from the established legal authorities. 
Nor has it chosen to provide supporting evidence about the agreements in place between 
the various parties. It has only pointed to PayPal and in essence said the mere presence of 
PayPal is proof that there is no relevant DCS relationship.  
It may be that in this case there was a Merchant Acquirer as well. But whether there was a 
four-party arrangement here or indeed a five-party arrangement present in Mr Bs case, 
either way Im still satisfied that there are sufficient arrangements between Lloyds, as card 
issuer, and Firm A, as supplier, for the purposes of establishing a DCS relationship, I shall 
now explain why.
In Mr Bs case, I think there are indications of relevant arrangements even before looking at 
the contractual obligations undertaken by the parties, given that PayPal was specifically, and 
publicly in the business of processing or facilitating financial transactions such as the 
transaction in this case. It should also be noted that PayPal is a very large company 
generating vast numbers of transactions which go through all the card networks every day. 
So clearly the network here (and other networks) have decided to allow such payments to go 
through their networks. And it would seem that considering the commercial benefits of such 
volumes of transactions this is entirely understandable.
Here PayPal is specifically and publicly in the business of providing financial transactional 
services to suppliers, such as Firm A. Lloyds would be able to know the parties within the 
arrangement here included PayPal and that PayPals business involved processing 
payments under the network for its customers, such as Firm A. And Firm A was obliged 
through its agreement with PayPal to also be bound to follow the rules in the card network in 
this case. Fundamentally, it follows that Lloyds financed the transaction between Mr B and 
Firm A by making credit available at the point of purchase in accordance with the credit 
agreement between them. The fact that it does so through the medium of PayPal does not 
detract from that: it is Lloyd's agreement to provide credit to Mr B that provides the financial 
basis for the transaction with Firm A. And all of this done with all parties being required to 
comply with the card network rules.
I would also note that both Lloyds and Firm A undoubtedly benefit commercially
from the involvement of the other, through the intermediations of PayPal (and any Merchant 
Acquirer present), in a way that makes it possible to allow the transaction to happen. By 
financing purchases from the Firm A, Lloyds are able to lend money to their customer (Mr B) 
and make interest and/or other charges for that service, whilst the Firm A is able to obtain 
payments from Lloydss credit card holders and so benefit from the credit Lloyds extended 
(albeit indirectly).
Contemplation
It is possible that Lloyds may argue that such arrangements as those present in Mr Bs case 
were outside of its contemplation at the time when it agreed with Mr B to open his credit card 
account, and thus there is no DCS agreement for it to be liable under. Given that payments systems and card networks have continuously changed and evolved 
over the past half century, I think it likely that Lloyds always understood that the Mastercard 
scheme would be operated in accordance with evolving rules and commercial practices, and 
that this evolution was likely to bring in new groups of network participants. Lloyds must 
have known Mastercard would try to adapt its network to accommodate major changes in 
the payments industry; and it would certainly not have expected that each customer to whom 
it issued a credit card would only make purchases from the suppliers recruited under the 
rules and practices applicable at the date when the credit agreement was first entered into.  
Rather, it would have contemplated that all its credit card holders would (irrespective of 
when their credit agreement started) have access to the same suppliers, i.e. those suppliers 
allowed under the Mastercard network. So, I think Lloyds must have contemplated, when 
agreeing to give Mr B a credit card, that his card would be used to finance purchases from 
whatever suppliers the networks changing rules and practices accommodated at the time of 
the purchase. 
In this case, the credit card payment went to Firm A via PayPal which are/were recognised 
participants in the same card scheme as Lloyds, and this transactional process between 
debtors and suppliers is commonplace within the rules of the scheme.  It is a method of 
payment to a type of supplier that the networks rules and practices accommodate and, as 
such, I consider that it was within Lloyds contemplation when the credit card agreement was 
entered into. 
Conversion
Lloyds may point to the conversion from Sterling to E-money as a reason for why there might 
no longer be a DCS agreement. But Im not persuaded by this either, because had there 
been a conversion of foreign currency in the transaction as is the case in huge numbers of 
credit card transactions used during holidays abroad the accepted position is DCS isnt 
broken. And usually in such foreign transactions there is a fee charged for providing the 
added service of the currency exchange. It is important to remember here that the entire 
sum here was funded by the Lloyds credit card. This transaction wasnt funded by the 
balance already held in the account with PayPal. This was a near instantaneous transaction 
from Mr Bs Lloyds credit card to Firm A through the intermediation of the financial 
transactional service as provided by PayPal. And I cannot see a fee being directly charged 
for the exchange to E-money here. And even if there was such a fee whether directly applied 
to the transaction or as part of the overall service that PayPal provided, I dont think it would 
make this transaction distinguishable from the other types of currency exchanges Ive 
described. 
I should also note that PayPal in its evidence to this service previously has stated that its 
Guest Checkout service converts to E-Money but doesnt disrupt the DCS relationship. So 
Im not persuaded the conversion in itself should prevent there from being a DCS agreement 
here as, to my mind, this conversion does not negate the arrangements in place between the 
parties as Ive described.
Accounts
It may be that Lloyds points to the fact that the transaction journey is from Mr Bs card into 
Mr Bs account with PayPal and then onto Firm As account with PayPal as a reason why to 
consider their might not be a DCS agreement. But Im not persuaded by this. There are still 
the necessary arrangements to my mind. Merchant Acquirers, Payment Processors and 
those parties providing currency conversion services have accounts in which transactions 
pass through on their journey from debtor to supplier. Ive not seen any persuasive reason to 
distinguish what happened here from the authorities mentioned before. The network stance
Mastercards public stance on this matter generally is unclear from my research. I do note 
however that one of the other major networks (Visa) has made clear on its website that it 
does, at least imply, that DCS isnt disrupted. It has said:
If your Visa card purchase was made using a digital wallet where the payment was made 
with a linked card, chargeback and Section 75 claims work in the same way as if you paid 
directly with your card.
So all in all Ive not seen any persuasive evidence at this stage that the additional services 
provided by PayPal interrupts the DCS relationship. Im also satisfied this transaction fits 
within the financial limits set out in relation to S75 claims as described in the Act. Accordingly 
Im satisfied at this time that there is the necessary DCS agreement and a S75 claim can be 
successful if the other requirements are made out. However I have used this provisional 
decision to drive out arguments from all sides here in order to come to a fair final decision.
liability
As Ive explained, for Lloyds to be liable under S75 a breach of contract or a material 
misrepresentation needs to be made out. Mr B has submitted in support of his claim a report 
from a jewellers who have inspected the ring. The report says:
Having inspected the above item under magnification I have observed damage to two of the 
claws due to the metal being poorly cast resulting in porosity and subsequent brittleness, 
causing metal fracture when the claws are caught. Pitting is evident on both fractured 
surfaces, with at least one other claw demonstrating incomplete fracture. There is clear 
evidence of the ring having been resized, however this wouldnt affect the integrity or stability 
of the claws.
I also note in Firm As product details supplied to Mr B when he bought the ring it describes 
the following as being included with the product:
3-year warranty protection on all our products which includes manufacturing defects such 
as metal fracturing and porosity, it does not include wear and tear and certificate for any 
diamonds.
All goods should be of satisfactory quality. It is evident here that this ring wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when purchased as it is clearly insufficiently durable due to the casting 
and evident porosity. So based on the independent evidence here Im satisfied that the ring 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. Im not persuaded these failings were due 
to fair wear and tear. I think they became evident through the normal day to day usage of the 
ring. Furthermore Im satisfied on balance these issues with the ring came to light within the 
warranty period which specifically covers the failings identified in the ring here. So I think it 
would also be covered under the warranty. 
Summary
Considering my rationale set out above (and in my provisional decision) and considering the 
subsequent responses of Lloyds and Mr B, I am satisfied that under S75 that there is a 
breach of contract here and Lloyds is liable for the reasons given.Putting things right
Mr B has requested a full refund for the ring. I think such a ring should be expected to last 
many years, so I dont think a reduction for usage here is fair. Taking into account all of the 
circumstances I think this is a fair remedy, so I direct Lloyds to make a full refund for this 
transaction to purchase the ring. Lloyds can take possession of the ring if it so wishes before 
making the refund. If this is the case it should inform Mr B within 28 days of the date of this 
decision. Lloyds must also pay 8% interest on this amount from when it rejected Mr Bs claim 
to it until it settles this matter.
My final decision
It is my decision that this complaint is successful. It is my decision that there is the required 
DCS agreement under s.75, and on balance, that there is a breach of contract. So Im 
satisfied that Lloyds Bank Plc should compensate Mr B for the loss suffered here as I have 
described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman