DRN-2890669
The complaint
Miss K is complaining about the way Ageas Insurance Limited  trading as ageas (Ageas) 
has handled a claim she made on her home following a burglary.
  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in April.
In that I said I was minded to uphold Miss Ks complaint and award her £300 compensation.
Im not going to go into all the detail included in my provisional decision, as these are well 
known to both parties.
In summary, I said:
Miss K was burgled in late 2019 and her jewellery  which she says she kept in a 
safe, was taken.
Miss K reported this to the police and approached Ageas to make a claim.
Miss K told Ageas she was getting divorced  and that some of the jewellery might 
have to be returned to her husband as part of a pre-nuptial agreement. She said the 
agreement was with her husbands family.
Ageas (through the loss adjuster it was using to handle the claim) told Miss K shed 
have to get a copy of the agreement to prove she owned the items and had an 
insurable interest. That took some time and Miss K said it caused unnecessary 
delays and distress.
I thought the terms and conditions in Miss Ks policy said she had to either own or be 
responsible for the items. I thought  given shed insured then and kept them in a safe as 
required by the policy  that shed shown she was responsible for them. So I though Ageas 
hadnt been fair when it asked for the agreement.
I concluded Ageas should pay Miss K £300 to make up for this. I didnt say Ageas had to 
meet the claim as thats a separate complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Both Miss K and Ageas have responded.
Ageas says it had to check whether Miss K had an insurable interest in the items of 
jewellery that might be returned to her husband in any divorce settlement. And it says it 
didnt say Miss K had to contact her husband about this - but that she could get a copy of the 
pre-nuptial agreement from her representative.
On the first of these points, I cant accept Ageas suggestion that the items didnt belong to 
Miss K. Even if they did have to be returned as part of a divorce settlement, they hadnt been 
 and the divorce wasnt finalised. Up to that point I think the items do belong to Miss K. And 
she was clearly responsible for them as she insured them.
On the second point, Ageas knew that Miss K didnt have a copy of the pre-nuptial 
agreement and that it was held by her husbands family. She said that in an early statement 
provided to the loss adjuster dealing with the claim on Ageas behalf. It seems to me that 
Ageas request for this information left Miss K either having to contact her husband  which I 
understand she did  or pay to get the information through her solicitor. Either way I think 
having to obtain the pre-nuptial agreement for Ageas was likely to cause distress.
Im not persuaded by either of these points that I should change my provisional decision.
Miss K says £300 is not enough to make up for additional costs shes incurred and the 
distress caused by the delay the request caused. Shes offered to send us evidence of the 
costs. Im not going to ask Ageas to pay these as, eventually, her solicitor would have had to 
get a copy of the pre-nuptial agreement in order to finalise her divorce. So the cost would 
have been incurred at some point.
Id like to remind both parties that this decision is only about the delays etc caused by Ageas 
requesting the agreement. I make no findings about any other complaints Miss K may have 
raised with Ageas about the settlement of her claim. 
Putting things right
I still remain of the opinion that £300 fairly reflects the inconvenience of having to ask for the 
agreement when Ageas could have progressed the claim without it.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Ageas Insurance Limited  trading as 
ageas to pay Miss K £300. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman