DRN-3568474
The complaint
Mr P complains that Moneybarn No.1 Limited (Moneybarn) irresponsibly granted him a 
conditional sale agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In December 2020, Mr P acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn.  Mr P made an upfront payment of £4,250 and was then required to make 56 
monthly repayments of £716.03. The total repayable under the agreement was £44,347.58.
Mr P says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which used credit reference agency and average 
expenditure statistics. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneybarn ought to 
have realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr P. She recommended that Moneybarn 
end Mr Ps agreement, allow him to return the car and deduct a fair usage value. But Mr P 
says he wants to keep the car and have an arrangement with Moneybarn to make lower 
payments. 
Moneybarn didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
On his loan application Mr P declared his income to be £3,500. However, Moneybarn should 
have been able to see from checking information such as payslips or bank statements that 
Mr P was on furlough from his work with a monthly employment income of only £800  and 
that the furlough had first started in April 2020. On that basis, without a stable source of 
income, I think there was a real risk that Mr P wouldnt be able to afford the monthly 
repayments towards this agreement without difficulty or having to borrow further. I think this 
is further supported by the fact that it was necessary for Moneybarn to give Mr P a payment 
holiday of two months from January 2021 which continued up to June that year. Mr P 
provided payslips showing his furlough income in support of getting that payment holiday. 
Moneybarn recorded Mr Ps existing credit commitments as £1,541 per month. Moneybarn 
hasnt provided a copy of the credit check it completed. Ive therefore relied on a copy of the 
credit file supplied by Mr P. I think this gives a good indication of what Moneybarn would 
likely have seen. At the time of the application it shows that Mr P was generally managing 
his finances well, although I note he had a history of borrowing from short-term lenders. 
However, I still think it would have been proportionate for Moneybarn to have verified Mr Ps 
income in some way. Whilst Ive seen that Mr Ps declared his monthly income to be £3,500, 
his bank statements from around that time provide a fuller picture of his financial situation. I 
can see that his monthly employment earnings were only £800 per month with the balance 
coming for the most part form benefits and family members. Taking into account that Mr P 
would be required to maintain his loan repayments for 56 months, I think its likely that he 
could soon get into difficulty and would be unable to afford to sustainably repay the new 
agreement as well as his existing commitments. I think Moneybarn would likely have found 
this out too if it had completed proportionate checks, and it therefore didnt act fairly by 
approving the finance. 
The bank statements also show that Mr Ps committed expenditure was averaging out at 
around £2,900 each month, made up of payments for rent, household bills and utilities as 
well as payment made back to friends and family members. Given that a large proportion of 
these payments appear to be paying back sums that were lent to him, I think it demonstrates 
that Mr P didnt have enough disposable income to afford the additional borrowing. I think its 
likely proportionate checks would have revealed this to Moneybarn and so it didnt act fairly 
by approving the finance.
Putting things right  what Moneybarn needs to do
As I dont think Moneybarn ought to have approved the lending, it should therefore refund all 
the payments Mr P has made, including any deposit. However, Mr P has had use of the car 
for around 19 months so far, so I think its fair he pays for that use. But Im not persuaded 
that monthly repayments of over £716 a month are a fair reflection of what fair usage would 
be. 
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage should be. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the agreement, 
Mr Ps likely overall usage of the car and what his costs to stay mobile would likely have 
been if he didnt have the car. In doing so, I agree with our adjudicator that a fair amount 
Mr P should pay is £450 for each month he had use of the car. This currently means 
Moneybarn can only ask him to repay a total of £8,550. Anything Mr P has paid in excess of 
this amount should be treated as an overpayment. 
Mr P told our adjudicator that he wanted to be placed on an affordable repayment plan as 
he could only afford to repay £350 to £400 a month. Given that Im in agreement with our 
adjudicator that the agreement should not have been granted in the first instance, it means I 
am now asking Moneybarn to terminate the agreement. I note that the cash price of the 
vehicle is £26,500. From the information provided, Mr P had repaid around £7,800 
(including the deposit) as at March 2022, which represents about 30% of the cash price. But 
the purpose of our awards is to try as best as possible to place consumers like Mr P back in 
the position they would have been in had the unfair lending not taken place. Mr P doesnt 
own the car and as things stand hes a long way from paying off the cash price  and he 
doesnt appear to be in a position where its likely hed able to own the car outright. So the 
4-5 years it would take for him to make reduced payments isnt a reasonable of time, given 
that it will put him in a much better position than he would have been in  getting the car 
interest free and spreading his repayments over a significant period of time. 
To settle Mr Ps complaint Moneybarn should therefore do the following:
End the agreement and collect the car with nothing further to pay.
Refund all the payments Mr P has made, less £8,550 for fair usage. oIf Mr P has paid more than the fair usage figure, Moneybarn should refund 
any overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. Or;
oIf Mr P has paid less than the fair usage figure, Moneybarn should arrange an 
affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance. 
Once Moneybarn has received the fair usage amount, it should remove any adverse 
information recorded on Mr Ps credit file regarding the agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybarn to take off tax from this interest. Moneybarn 
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr P asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Moneybarn No.1 Limited to put things right in the manner 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman