DRN-3625185
The complaint
Mrs C and the estate of Mr C, represented by a claims management company (CMC), have 
complained about the advice given to them to invest, by a predecessor scheme of Barclays 
Bank UK PLC. 
What happened
Mrs C and the late Mr C invested £20,000 into a with-profits fund bond following advice in 
July 1999. The bond was surrendered after ten years, in September 2009. They received 
approximately £11,000. Having already received approximately £13,000 through monthly 
income since inception. 
In December 2020, they complained to Barclays through the CMC. They said that the 
minimum term of the investment hadnt been appropriate considering the late Mr Cs age at 
the time of the sale. They also noted that the income had been set at 6%, which meant it 
was taxable and should instead have been below 5%. 
Barclays responded initially to say that the complaint hadnt been raised in time. Mrs C and 
the estate of Mr C remained unhappy and so the CMC brought the complaint to our service 
for an independent review. 
Our investigator looked into it. He said that the complaint had been brought in time and 
Barclays accepted this. He also said that he felt the advice given was suitable. Stating that it 
met their circumstances, needs and attitude to risk at the time. 
The CMC responded to say that they still believed the advice was unsuitable. They said the 
term and level of income selected was not appropriate. 
As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me to reach a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why. 
Unfortunately, due to the amount of time that has passed since Mrs C and the late Mr C took 
the investment out, there is limited information available. As the Investigator explained, 
businesses shouldnt keep hold of information indefinitely and this policy matured over ten 
years ago, in 2009. I therefore have to base my decision on what I think most likely 
happened. 
At the time of the sale, both Mrs C and the late Mr C were 74 years old. They were retired 
and recorded as being mortgage free with no liabilities or dependents. They had £30,000 of 
available cash-based savings. Although their expenditure was met by their retirement 
income, which came from pensions, they were looking to supplement this. They were novice 
investors who were recorded as looking to avoid day-to-day stock market movements. 
They were recorded as having a low risk attitude profile, which was the one above very low 
risk such as cash savings. This, coupled with the consumers not wanting to invest in funds 
or unit trusts, limited the options available to meet their financial need. I believe the         
with-profits investment bond that was recommended, matched their attitude to risk. It offered 
some element of capital protection with the stable and conservative level of income required.
The CMC has argued that it wasnt suitable because the capital protection was negated by 
the risk of a surrender charge within five years of inception and a market value adjustment 
(MVA) within ten years of inception. I am pleased to see that neither of these applied as the 
investment remained for more than ten years. However, the CMC says that the age and 
circumstances of Mrs C and the late Mr C at the time of sale, meant the risk of the charge 
was too high. However, I dont agree. There was nothing recorded at the time of sale to 
suggest a five or ten-year term wasnt suitable and that the money may be required before 
then. I also dont agree that such a term at their age at sale wasnt appropriate. 
Whilst the consumers were looking for income from the investment, to supplement their 
pension income, the CMC has complained that it was set at 6%. This meant it was taxable, 
rather than if the income had been set at 5% or below. There isnt anything from the point of 
sale to confirm why this level was selected. However, the financial planning report set it out. 
It explained the ramifications of this regarding tax, as it was above the 5% level. Mrs C and 
the late Mr C signed and accepted that, which I believe shows that they were happy with it. I 
am not sure why this level was selected but I believe it was proactively selected rather than 
in error. It could have been reduced if either were unhappy and so I dont conclude that this 
bond was mis-sold because of the level of income selected. 
In summary, I think the bond recommended was suitable for their needs and circumstances 
at the time. It matched their attitude to risk and supplemented their income as they wanted. I 
dont believe there was any issue with the term it needed to be invested for and I believe the 
level of income was selected that Mrs C and Mr C were happy with. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and the 
estate of Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman