DRN-2658722
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited has rejected her home insurance claim for 
storm or other damage to her garden wall.
What happened
In February 2020 Miss P reported a claim to Aviva after her rear garden wall collapsed 
following a heavy storm. Aviva sent out a loss adjuster to inspect the damage. He came to 
the conclusion that 1) the wall was in a poor condition prior to being blown down, 2) a 
previous owner had filled the majority of wind holes in the wall and 3) a fence had been 
placed on top of the wall. These factors caused the wall to fall down. Aviva considered that 
these factors were the cause of the damage and werent covered under the policy.
On referral to this service our investigator said that Aviva had acted reasonably.
Miss P didnt agree and produced a statement from her neighbour (Mr M) who is an expert in 
bricklaying. Mr M said the wall was in a reasonable condition before the storm and had stood 
for over fifty years. This statement was put to Aviva but it maintained its decision to decline 
the claim. Our investigators reviewed the statement but advised this didnt change her view 
of the matter.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
storm
When considering claims for storm damage, to decide if the storm cover applies we ask 
three questions and it is only if the answer to each of those questions is yes that we would 
be likely to uphold the complaint. The questions are:
On the balance of evidence, do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around 
the date the damage is said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with what we generally see as storm damage?
Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
were there storm conditions?
I dont think theres any dispute that there were. This happened in the course of a named 
storm where windspeeds, in the vicinity of Miss Ps property, of 54-55 mph were recorded.
was the damage consistent with storm damage?
Such high winds can cause structural damage so I think that the blowing down of the garden 
wall was consistent with storm damage.
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Miss P maintained that the wall was in good condition before it blew down. She has 
produced two reports from builders who came to quote for the repairs These said:
..in our opinion, the brick garden wall was damaged by the high winds and adverse weather 
conditions recently experienced. This has resulted in most of the wall collapsing due to the 
wind pressure causing the structure to break at ground level. and:
Prior to these storms I can confirm that the wall was in a reasonable condition but was 
blown down almost entirely during the storms.
Mr M also made a statement. I dont think its an independent report (for that matter neither 
is Avivas report) but I accept that he has a degree of expertise. With regard to the condition 
of the wall he said that:
In my view it was certainly not in a poor state of repair at the time of the collapse.
Aviva disputes this. Its initial report from its assessor said that:
All damage present is consistent an age related issue and poor design the wall itself would 
of (sic) been in a poor state of repair prior the loss and the winds have merely highlighted the 
historically failed area.
The assessor later said, in response to Mr Ms statement, that there are:
clear signs of algae/lichens/moss on the affected section of wall, this can also affect the 
mortar bedding in the affected area. There are many sections of mortar/brick courses 
which can be seen to have had a clean separation between the courses.
The assessor suggested that the remaining part of the wall was in better condition. 
In my view Aviva hasnt really been able to counter Miss Ps assertion that the wall was in a 
reasonable condition prior to the storm. I would have thought there wouldve been a clear 
analysis of this at the time of the site visit. The later comments made by the assessor in 
response to Mr Ms statement appear to me to be speculation.
However what both Mr M and Aviva have mentioned is the fact that the previous owner had 
filled up at least half (per Mr M), or a majority (per Avivas assessor) of the wind holes in the 
part of the wall that had blown down. The wind holes in the part still standing hadnt been 
filled in and it remained attached to the neighbours building. And there was a fence (or 
privacy screen) along the top of the wall. Avivas assessor said that the constant side 
pressure of the wind has caused the lower brick bond of the wall* to fail and subsequently 
caused the wall to collapse.
*I take this to mean, the area at ground level, as highlighted by one of Miss Ps contractors.
Mr M said:
The wall incorporated purpose built holes which would serve to allow wind pressure on the 
wall to be reduced somewhat. The previous owner to [Miss P] had filled in 50% of these, in 
ignorance I suspect. As for the portion of fencing measuring 15 inches in height installed along the top of the wall. Yes, this may have contributed to the demise of the wall; to what 
degree would be conjecture without expert knowledge in this matter. 
So unquestionably both parties experts have pointed to a design flaw. By filling in the wind 
holes which were designed to prevent the wall being buffeted by high winds and by placing a 
fence on top these have, at the very least, likely been influencing factors in the walls 
collapse.
I should point out that were not a court of law. I have to assess the evidence before me and 
determine Ms Ps complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the case. I also should say that we are an alternative dispute service, 
our function being to resolve complaints informally. Having reviewed both parties evidence, 
including the photos, Ive come to the view that it is likely that the main cause of the damage 
was the wind holes being filled in, together with the fence on top. And the high winds 
highlighted these flaws. Ive noted that, even in the part of the wall still standing, the fence 
part has come down, bringing the top two or three rows of bricks with it. Ive noted Mr Ms 
point that the wall has stood for fifty years, but from what the parties have said it would 
appear that the holes being filled and the fence being put on top were more recent events.
So in my view the storm conditions werent the main cause of the damage.
accidental damage
Ive considered whether the cover for accidental damage applies. This is defined in the 
policy as:
Damage caused suddenly and unexpectedly by an outside force.
Whilst this could apply to this claim, there are exclusions under this cover for wear and tear 
and faulty or unsuitable materials or design or poor workmanship.
Given my view as to the likely cause of the damage, I dont think the claim is covered under 
accidental damage.
So overall, while I know this will be disappointing to Miss P, I think that Aviva acted 
reasonably in declining this claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 April 2021. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman