DRN-3734947
The complaint
I, a sole trader business, complains about the way that PrePay Technologies Limited dealt 
with a fraud claim.
What happened
I explains that it noticed card payments on its account that it hadnt made. It contacted 
PrePay on 30 December 2020 about them and was later told that these wouldnt be 
refunded. I said it was unhappy that this was despite it contacting the merchants involved for 
information and was poor service from PrePay. It referred its complaint.
PrePay issued a final response letter on 23 February 2021 saying that the dispute had been 
rejected as Is card wasnt shown to have been compromised. And it said that this had been 
handled appropriately. When it submitted its business file it stated that it had raised a 
chargeback for one payment on 18 February 2021 and made a refund to I of the full amount 
involved of all of them and coming to £1,613.48 on 18 March 2021. This would be temporary 
for 60 days pending any follow up on the chargeback.
Our investigator recommended that in addition to the refund I be paid £200 for distress and 
inconvenience. She noted the time before the claim was settled, the additional efforts I had 
to go to in contacting the two merchants involved and the time I was out of pocket. It could 
have been refunded much earlier.
I had indicated that it would accept this amount of compensation as reasonable to settle the 
complaint. PrePay didnt respond to the view of our investigator or to the notice that this case 
would be passed to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt now in dispute that I was a victim of fraud. Somehow its card details were 
compromised, and I take into account that the actions of the fraudster caused inconvenience 
to I and distress to the owner.
I denied any involvement with the payments to the merchants here. And the outcome of a 
fraud claim isnt necessarily dependent on whether or not a chargeback was successful. I 
agree with our investigator in any event that if PrePay was going to be making a chargeback 
for the largest of the payments, then this could have been done earlier. When it was the 
information provided by the merchant didnt match the name, address or email information 
for I. The other smaller payments appeared to have been for transport services abroad. But 
a final response saying the claim wasnt going to be upheld was issued while the chargeback 
was ongoing. And that led I to refer the complaint to us on the date it received information 
that the merchant had attempted to challenge the chargeback request.
I can see that I was unhappy that it had to deal with this online with PrePay and that different 
staff were involved. Im afraid its really a matter for PrePay to decide its method of 
communication. But in light of what Ive said above and the lack of any response now from 
PrePay about whats been proposed I agree that I was caused needless distress and 
inconvenience. So, I will award compensation in line with our investigators recommendation 
as I consider that to be fair.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require PrePay Technologies Limited to pay 
I £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman