DRN-3961701
The complaint
A limited company, that Ill refer to as C, has complained about Hiscox Insurance Company 
Limiteds settlement offer in relation to a claim for business interruption cover under its 
business insurance policy. 
Hiscox uses agents to deal with claims on its behalf. For ease, I will refer to Hiscox 
throughout this decision but that should be read as including anything said or done on its 
behalf by its agents.  
Mr T, as director of C, has brought the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
C is a coffee shop. C contacted Hiscox make a claim for losses incurred after it was 
impacted as a result of the Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic. C made three 
separate claims, one for a period of lockdown from March 2020, one for the period from 
November 2020 to December 2020 and then one from January 2021 onwards. 
After initially refusing it, Hiscox ultimately agreed to meet the first claim but C was unhappy 
with the settlement offered. I have addressed the complaint about the first claim in a 
separate decision.
Hiscox turned down the second and third claims, as it said that when the policy renewed in 
August 2020, the wording was changed to only provide cover for closure as a result of 
occurrence of certain specified diseases and Covid-19 was not one of the diseases 
specified. Hiscox therefore said that claims arising after the start date of the new policy were 
not covered. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as she was satisfied Hiscox was entitled to refuse the second and third claims for 
the reasons it did. 
C does not accept the Investigators assessment. As the Investigator was unable to resolve 
the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on C business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy in 
force at the time of these claims to see if Hiscox has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy when declining the second and third claims. 
The section of the policy that the parties agreed might potentially be relevant to these claims 
is as follows: 
 Public Authority
7. Your ability to use the business premises due to restrictions imposed by public 
authority during the period of insurance following
b) any occurrence of a notifiable human disease within one mile of the business 
premises.
At the time of the first claim the policy defined notifiable disease as being any human 
infectious or contagious disease, an outbreak of which must be notified to the local authority. 
Cs policy renewed in August 2020. At that time Hiscox added the following endorsement to 
the policy:
      Business Interruption endorsements 
       Removal of cover: communicable diseases and other risks
       Special definitions for this section, Notifiable disease is amended to read as follows: 
      Notifiable human disease
      Any of the following human and infectious or human contagious disease, as outbreak
      of which must be notified to the local authority: 
a) Acute encephalitis;
b) Anthrax
c) Cholera;
d) Dysentery;
e) Legionellosis;
f) Legionnaires disease;
g) Leptospirosis;
h) Paratyphoid fever; 
i) Rabies; or 
j) Tetanus.
The wording is clear and unambiguous in my opinion. As Covid-19 isnt one of the diseases 
listed, any inability to use the insured premises as a result of Covid-19 isnt covered by the 
policy. I can see why this was disappointing for C but insurers are entitled to decide what 
cover they want to provide and are allowed to make changes to policies. The endorsement 
means the second and third claims are not covered.
C also says that there should be cover under the first policy for the later lockdown periods, 
as it had an indemnity period of 12 months. I do not agree that this is a reasonable 
expectation. I determined in my decision on the handling of the first claim that it was 
reasonable of Hiscox to determine the indemnity period for that claim as being from 21 
March to 4 July 2020. The 21 March 2020 was when C was first unable to use its premises 
as a result of the Government restrictions and after 4 July 2020 C was able to use its 
premises so that insured event (the inability to use the premises) had ended. 
C was then unable to use the premises again in November 2020 and January 2021 as a 
result of further Government lockdowns but as stated, these are not covered under the policy 
in force at the time these restrictions were imposed.  My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman