DRN-3448708
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the suitability of the advice she received from Zurich Assurance Ltd 
(Zurich) in 1998 to transfer the deferred benefits of an Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) 
to a personal pension plan (PPP).
What happened
Mrs D held benefits in two OPSs. She belonged to the first OPS from 1 November 1969 to 
31 December 1995. A deferred benefit statement provided to her in 1996 confirmed her 
deferred annual pension was £9,867.81  which was projected to be £23,949.66 at her 
normal retirement date of age 65. 
In January 1998 Mrs Ds then adviser requested a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) 
from the trustees of the pension scheme.
 
In November 1998 the transfer of the OPS benefits completed, with the amount of 
£119,070.30 paid into a Zurich PPP.  
In September 2005 the PPP, which had been invested equally between a property and a gilt-
edged fund and was valued at £164,217.21, was transferred to Mrs Ds existing OPS.
 
Mrs Ds most recent service was with a global healthcare company from 1 July 1997 to 
31 August 2008  which was when the scheme said she retired. In September 2005 a total 
of £165,825.15 was transferred in from two separate PPPs, which included the transfer from 
the Zurich PPP. These transfers gave Mrs D the equivalent of an additional 22.75 years in 
her OPS. 
In 2019 Mrs D was referred to a claims management company which, having made a 
complaint about a pension policy with another provider, then complained about the advice 
shed been given by Zurich to transfer her deferred OPS benefits. 
Zurich explained that Mrs D had claimed the benefits from her personal pension in 2005 and 
it held little if any records of her plan. It said it wasnt obliged to keep the records for longer 
than six years where a client relationship had ended, so it couldnt provide any 
documentation. But it accepted the transfer of benefits had taken place in 1998/9 and that it 
would have been subject to a full transfer analysis. It said it would then have been for Mrs D 
to confirm if she wished to go ahead.
Mrs D didnt think it was reasonable for Zurich to assume the advice was suitable without 
any documentation, so she brought her complaint to us  where one of our investigators said 
this was a complaint that should be upheld. He said that Zurich had an obligation, according 
to the regulatory requirements, to retain its records for pension transfers indefinitely. He said 
Zurich accepted that it carried out the transfer  so it wasnt reasonable for it to assume the 
transfer was suitable in the absence of any documentation to support that claim. He 
recommended that Zurich carry out a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance.
Zurich didnt agree. It said it hadnt destroyed the sales documentation but simply misplaced 
it  which wasnt unreasonable given the time since the transfer took place. But it said that at 
the time all its transfers went through a robust checking process and were subject to a full 
transfer analysis  which followed the completion of a transfer questionnaire. Zurich thought 
its recommendation would have been suitable and that the transfer would have followed the 
guidelines set out by the regulator at the time. It said that this was its recognised sales 
process and as Mrs D had been unable to demonstrate that it hadnt been followed it had no 
reason to conclude the transfer wasnt in her best interests. 
The investigator reiterated that under the conduct of business sourcebook (COBS) Zurich 
had a responsibility to retain the transfer documentation indefinitely. But he also said that the 
regulators default position was that a transfer ought to be seen as unsuitable unless the firm 
could clearly demonstrate that it was in consumers best interest. In this case he didnt think 
Zurich could do that and thought it was less than likely that a transfer of 33 years service 
within a defined benefit OPS would be suitable. 
So as no resolution could be found the complaint was passed to me for a review.  
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said the complaint should be upheld giving the following reasons 
to support my findings:
I first considered if Mrs Ds transfer ought to have fallen under the industry wide 
pensions review but concluded that she was beyond the age for women to qualify to 
receive phase two mailshots.
The lack of documentation that was available from the time of the transfer meant I 
had to make a decision on the balance of probability. 
The regulators guidance on future pension transfer and opt-outs said that Zurich 
should be able to refer back to the basis on which it justified its advice  so it hadnt 
fulfilled that regulatory requirement. However, Zurich said it hadnt destroyed the 
information but simply misplaced it, so I couldnt reasonably say the absence of the 
documentation automatically meant the advice was unsuitable. So I looked at the 
evidence that was available from the time.
The CETV that was transferred in 1998 was £119,070, however the deferred OPS 
annual pension was £9,867.81. This would suggest the CETV was low given our 
experience of other CETVs and crucially suggested that a critical yield of more than 
the mid-range growth rate (9% at the time) was more likely than not to be required 
over the remaining time to Mrs Ds retirement age. 
In addition, Mrs D had 26 years of service in the OPS and was unlikely to want to 
take too much risk in investing it for as little as 10 years. The funds that were used to 
invest in the PPP were of a low to medium risk profile  so would be unlikely to 
provide the growth that would have been needed to exceed the OPS benefits.
Mrs Ds deferred OPS annual income at age 65 was revalued to £23,949.66. 
It was unlikely she would risk such an income unless it was demonstrated that she 
was very likely to be better off financially. I wasnt persuaded this could have been 
demonstrated to her. 
Id also noted that Mrs D had joined another OPS at the time of the advice and I had 
seen evidence to show that the PPP was transferred into it in 2005, but the CETV 
was based on additional years of service  which was in line with having belonged to 
a defined benefit scheme.  So I thought, as Mrs D did eventually transfer the benefits, 
it would have been possible to transfer benefits from one OPS to another in 1998. I 
thought that if such an option had been discussed it was likely to have provided a better financial outcome for Mrs D and was likely to be an option she would have 
chosen to take. 
Zurich should undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance.  
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs D accepted my provisional decision. Zurich, although disappointed with the outcome, 
accepted it  although it said reserved the right to limit the redress to the maximum award 
amount, if applicable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And as both parties have broadly accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
depart from my findings.
Mrs D left membership of an OPS in 1996 and a year later she joined another OPS. In 1998 
she met with Zurich and as a result transferred the benefits of the first OPS into a new PPP. 
Its accepted that Zurich carried out the transfer although it doesnt retain any paperwork or 
sales documentation from the time of the advice. So in order to determine if Zurichs advice 
was suitable Ive considered the other evidence that I have been provided with, and have 
made my decision on the basis of what I think was most likely to have been the situation in 
1998. I did consider if Mrs Ds transfer ought to have been included in the industry wide 
pension review  but Im satisfied that it didnt automatically qualify.
Was is likely the advice was suitable?
Zurich doesnt have any of the point of sale paperwork from 1998. It says the documentation 
has been mislaid which isnt unreasonable given the passage of time since the advice was 
given. But Zurich did have an obligation to be able to revisit the basis for its recommendation 
indefinitely, as explained in the regulators guidance on future pension transfer and opt-
outs, so Zurich hasnt fulfilled its regulatory requirement there. But that alone doesnt make 
the advice unsuitable, so Ive gone on to consider what the information I have seen would 
indicate to be the most suitable course of action at the time.
Mrs D was 50 at the time of the advice, with 26 years service in the first OPS and 10 years 
to her state pension age and a further five years to the normal retirement age of the OPS.It 
would appear that Mrs D did retire at age 60.
The CETV for the OPS was £119,070, however the deferred annual pension from the OPS 
was £9,867.81  which was revalued to £23,949.66.at age 65. This would suggest that the 
CETV was low at just over a multiple of ten, which was unlikely to be able to provide the 
same benefits as the OPS without significant growth within the PPP. 
The assumed mid-range growth rate as prescribed by the regulator at the time was 9% - and 
just about to be reduced to 7%, so I think it was more likely than not that any critical yield 
calculation  over such a reduced investment horizon, would most likely have needed to be 
higher than the mid-range figure in order to have a chance to make the returns that would be 
required for the transfer to be in Mrs Ds best interest. 
In addition, the investment strategy that was recommended to Mrs D for the PPP was largely 
cautious with over 50% invested into a gilt fund. Ive not been able to determine what was discussed at the time to determine Mrs Ds attitude to risk (ATR), but based on the strategy 
that was implemented, I think its likely that she wouldnt have had the appetite for the risk 
that would have been required in order for the PPP to exceed the OPS benefits. 
Mrs D had amassed around 26 years service in the OPS and could potentially look forward 
to around £23,000 per year in retirement as a result. She also had guaranteed benefits being 
accrued from her other OPS. So I think its likely Mrs D would have required significant 
demonstration of the likelihood that the new PPP would provide her with greater benefits 
than the OPS. I dont think Zurich would have been in a position to do that, particularly in 
respect of the amount of risk that Mrs D would have needed to take in order for that to be a 
possibility. Im not persuaded the advice to transfer was suitable or in Mrs Ds best interest.  
What should the advice have been? 
At the time of the advice Mrs D had joined a new OPS, which Im satisfied was a defined 
benefits scheme. I say that because when the PPP was later transferred to the OPS it 
provided additional years of service which is consistent with it being a defined benefit 
scheme. So, based on further guidance from the regulator at the time which said, the 
process should include procedures: to ascertain whether the prospective investors new 
employer (if any) has arrangements to accept transferred benefits, I would have expected 
Zurich to have looked into that possibility at the time and to have analysed whether it was 
beneficial for Mrs D to transfer the OPS benefits into her new OPS. 
Of course, I accept that Zurich is unable to demonstrate what its analysis looked like at the 
time and its not now possible to show whether such a transfer would have been in her best 
interests at that point. Ive also taken into account that Mrs D hasnt referred to any such 
discussion in her complaint. But, on balance, Ive decided its more likely than not that a 
transfer from one OPS to the other would have benefitted Mrs D financially and would have 
been in her best interests. 
Given that she ultimately held all her previous benefits in the new OPS, I think that also 
demonstrated that, with all the benefits of each option explained and shown to her, Mrs D 
would have preferred to hold benefits in a guaranteed scheme rather than an investment 
backed one.  
Based on the information Ive been provided with Im not persuaded that a transfer was in 
Mrs Ds best interest in 1998. Im also not satisfied she wouldnt have been better off by 
transferring her OPS benefits into the OPS she joined in 1997  which she already belonged 
to when she met with Zurich. So I think Zurich should carry out the calculation Ive set out 
below in order to determine if Mrs D has suffered a financial loss because of the advice
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs D, as far as possible,
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider she would
have remained in the occupational scheme. 
Zurich must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This will be slightly different, due to the conversion of Mrs Ds PPP funds being translated
into further defined benefits in 2005. But Zurich will need to make an appropriate actuarial
adjustment to account for this.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the mostrecent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly
following receipt of notification of Mrs Ds acceptance of the decision.
Zurich may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Ds
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Ds SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mrs Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mrs D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs D within 90 days of the date
Zurich receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Zurich
to pay Mrs D.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Zurich to pay Mrs D the compensation amount 
as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,0000, I additionally require
Zurich to pay Mrs D any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Zurich to
pay Mrs D any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend
that Zurich pays Mrs D the balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated
as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mrs D.
If Mrs D accepts my decision, the money award is binding on Zurich. My recommendation is 
not binding on Zurich. Further, its unlikely that Mrs D can accept my decision and go to court 
to ask for the balance. Mrs D may want to consider getting independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept any final decision along these lines.My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ds complaint against Zurich Assurance Ltd and direct it to undertake the above 
calculation.
Zurich has stated that it will require Mrs Ds authority to approach the OPS trustees for 
information to carry out the calculation, so Mrs D should provide the necessary authority to 
Zurich where necessary. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman