DRN-3116470
The complaint
Miss B complains that NewDay Ltd irresponsibly lent to her.  
What happened
Miss B was approved for three NewDay credit cards which I will refer to as A, B and C.
NewDay increased the credit limits on all three cards, which I have detailed below.
Card A  approved August 2017, with an initial £600 credit limit:
February 2018 £600 to £1,600
July 2018 £1,600 to £2,350
November 2018 £2,350 to £3,100
Card B  approved November 2017, with an initial £900 credit limit:
May 2018 £900 to £1,800
November 2018 £1,800 to £2,800
Card C  approved December 2018, with an initial £900 credit limit:
April 2018 £900 to £1,800
Miss B complained to NewDay that they irresponsibly lent to her. She said she previously
had a default, late payments and they should have never increased her credit limits. Miss B
said that her credit score was very low at the time of application, they accepted her for three
different credit cards and her debt with them rose to £7,700 in approximately a year from the
first account opening.
NewDay did not uphold Miss Bs complaint. They said as a responsible lender, when
deciding to offer credit, they consider a range of information available to them. This consists
of information provided by Credit Reference Agencies, account behaviour with NewDay, if
she already had an account with them, as well as the information she provided on her
applications - including Miss B saying she earned £27,000 gross annual income.
NewDay also said that they had seen she had two defaults registered on her credit file 28
months prior to her making her application for A. They also saw that she had an adverse
public record that was showing 37 months prior to her application. But as a second chance
lender, their cards are aimed at customers who are trying to rebuild their credit rating. They
said with this in mind, it is not unusual to see customers with a poor credit history open an
account with them. Miss B brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld Miss Bs complaint. He said Miss B was making minimum payments
up to the credit limit increases. Our investigator said that while contractual payments were
still being made, once the increased limits were applied, Miss B interest payments increased
because she continued to only make minimum payments. He recommended that NewDay
needed to refund all interest and charges on all three accounts from the date of the first limit
increase up to when a repayment plan was set up and interest was stopped.
NewDay asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. They said that Miss B made late
payments on just seven occasions over the three accounts. One of these was confirmed to
be because she had changed jobs. The late payment fees were all charged well after the
credit limit increases took place, not before.
NewDay also said that making minimum payments would not in itself be an indication that
Miss B would be struggling financially and their risk and affordability data does not indicate
she was experiencing financial strain before the credit limit increases, or indeed afterwards
due to NewDay's lending decisions. 
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to approve or increase the credit available to Miss B, NewDay needed to
make proportionate checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable
for her. Theres no prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I
expect lenders to consider include - but are not limited to: the type and amount of credit, the
borrower's income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as
the consumer's personal circumstances. Ive listed below what checks NewDay have done
and whether Im persuaded these checks were proportionate.
Acceptance for the three NewDay credit cards  initial credit limits:
Ive looked at what checks NewDay said they did when initially approving Miss Bs
application for all three cards. Ill address the credit limit increases later, as the first credit
limit increase was after the third account was approved. NewDay said they looked at
information provided by credit reference agencies and information that Miss B had provided
before approving her application.
Im satisfied that the account opening checks were proportionate. I say this as although three
applications were approved within a short period of time  August 2017 to December 2017,
the information that NewDay obtained prior to approving the applications was proportionate
for the credit limits which were initially given.
The information showed that the highest unsecured borrowing which Miss B had at the time
was £1,500. This was when she was approved for B credit card. Miss B had declared annual
income of £27,000 at the time, so it would appear that the three initial credit limits may be
affordable for Miss B as the total of these three limits were for £2,400 which was less than
10% of her gross income.
But thats not all NewDays data showed. The data also showed that Miss B had adverse
credit data in the form of two defaults and a public record. So NewDay would have been
aware that Miss B had previously not maintained her agreements. But the data also showed
she had no accounts in arrears, no repayment plans and that the adverse credit data was
over two years old.
February 2018 increase on credit card A:
NewDay will have been able to see how Miss B had been using her credit cards for a limited
period of time before the first credit limit increase in addition to information they obtainedfrom credit reference agencies. This would have shown that Miss Bs accounts were ran
generally well. But Im not persuaded that the further checks that NewDay did were
proportionate in February 2018.
I say this as the increase of the credit limit on Miss Bs credit card A nearly trebles from £600
to £1,600. In the previous six months, Miss B went from having no credit with NewDay to
having three credit cards and a fairly substantial credit limit increase on her first card. As this
was a lot higher than the credit limit prior to the increase in February 2018 and in light of
Miss Bs previous credit issues, then Im persuaded that as part of a proportionate check to
validate Miss Bs income and expenditure then they should have requested information from
Miss B to discuss her finances, for example, one of things they could have requested were
her recent bank statements.
I asked Miss B if she would provide her bank statements so I could see how she managed
her money at the time. Miss Bs bank statements show that she had an overdraft on her
account and often used the overdraft. So I looked at her income and outgoings, which Im
persuaded that NewDay should have done as part of a proportionate check to make sure the
credit limit was affordable and sustainable for Miss B.
Miss Bs bank statements prior to the first credit limit increase show that in total for the three
month time period beforehand, she had more outgoings than income. This should have
alerted NewDay that Miss B may not be able to afford a credit limit increase at this time as
over a prolonged period of time her outgoings exceeded her income and she had a reliance
on unsecured borrowing in the form of her overdraft. So Im persuaded that had NewDay
have looked at this information then they shouldnt have increased her credit limit on credit
card A at this time.
April, May, July 2018 credit limit increases across all three NewDay credit cards:
Again, NewDay will have been able to see how Miss B had been using her credit cards for a
longer period of time before the credit limit increases listed above in addition to information
they obtained from credit reference agencies. This would have shown that Miss Bs accounts
still were ran generally well. But Im not persuaded that the further checks that NewDay did
were proportionate for the credit limit increases listed above and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the increases from April-July 2018 and the credit limits rise rapidly over a short
period of time. The credit limits are increased across the three cards in three of the following
four months. In March 2018, her combined credit limit across all of the three cards were
£3,400. But the increases in April, May and July 2018 meant the combined credit limits were
£5,950.
As the increase to the credit limits are relatively high  card B and C are double the original
credit limit and card As credit limit is increased by nearly half the existing credit limit then
again, Im persuaded that as part of a proportionate check to validate Miss Bs income and
expenditure to assess the affordability and sustainability of potential higher repayments, then
NewDay should have requested information from Miss B to discuss her finances, for
example, one of things they could have requested were her recent bank statements.
Miss Bs bank statements prior to the April 2018 credit limit increase show that in total for the
three month time period beforehand, she had more outgoings than income by £671.45. This
should have alerted NewDay that Miss B may not be able to afford a credit limit increase at
this time or in May or July 2018, as over a prolonged period of time her outgoings exceeded
her income and she had a reliance on unsecured borrowing in the form of her overdraft.
Miss Bs bank statements also show that Miss Bs salary stopped as she became self 
employed in June 2018. Ive considered whether it was fair for NewDay to increase Miss Bscredit limit when she had a major change in circumstances.
Ive considered whether it is fair to hold NewDay responsible for something which they
werent aware of  that Miss B had went from an employed position to a self employed
position. Ive looked at the terms and conditions of her accounts and these say you must let
us know if your circumstances change in a way which is likely to change our assessment of
your financial standing. But Ive also considered that NewDay should have carried out
proportionate checks when increasing her credit limit regardless of whether she had
changed employment type or not. Im persuaded if NewDay made further proportionate
checks such as obtaining Miss Bs bank statements prior to increasing her credit limits then
this is when this new information would have come to light.
Im persuaded that if NewDay were aware that Miss B had become self employed in June
2018 then as part of a proportionate check they would try and contact her to assess the
affordability and the sustainability of how she would be able to make payments when she
was self employed. So Im persuaded that had NewDay have looked at her bank statements
for example as part of a proportionate check at this stage then they shouldnt have increased
her credit limit on her three credit cards in April, May and July 2018.
November 2018 credit limit increases across credit cards A and B:
Finally Ive looked at the credit limit increases in November 2018 as the total credit limits rise
by £1,750. Prior to the increase the total on all three cards was £5,950. So in the space of 15
months, Miss B has had no credit with NewDay to having three different credit cards totalling
£7,700 with NewDay. Im not persuaded that the further checks that NewDay did were
proportionate from November 2018 either and Ill explain why.
The increase to the credit limits for card A is £750 which is nearly a third higher than the
previous credit limit and the increase to the credit limit for card B is over half of the previous
credit limit, so again, Im persuaded that as part of a proportionate check to validate Miss Bs
income and expenditure to assess the affordability and sustainability of potential higher
repayments, then NewDay should have requested information from Miss B to discuss her
finances.
Miss Bs bank statements prior to the November 2018 credit limit increase show that in total
for the three month time period beforehand, she had more income than outgoings by
£979.47. So it may look like Miss B did have affordability to raise her credit limits. But this is
not all that the statements showed. The statements show that Miss B still has a heavy
reliance on unsecured borrowings as she is often using her overdraft. When she is in credit
this is often for a short period of time and therefore this should have alerted NewDay that
Miss B may not be able to afford a credit limit increase at this time as over a prolonged
period of time she had a reliance on unsecured borrowing in the form of her overdraft rather
than disposable income. So Im persuaded that had NewDay have looked at this information
then they shouldnt have increased her credit limit on two of her credit cards in November
2018.
Ive considered what NewDay have said regarding Miss B previously managing her NewDay
accounts generally well, making late payments on seven occasions over the three accounts
of which one of these was confirmed to be because she had changed jobs and the late
payment fees were all charged after the credit limit increases took place. But her wider
financial circumstances showed that the increases to her initial credit limits were not
affordable or sustainable at the time they were approved.
All three cards increased quite quickly in a short space of time. But Miss B was normally only
making the minimum repayments which indicate that the borrowing was unsustainable. Thereality of paying the debt back just by making minimum payments would take years and
would mean Miss B wasnt able to pay off the debt in a reasonable time. And Miss B had to
occasionally borrow in the form of her overdraft to make her repayments to her NewDay
credit cards. So it follows I will be asking NewDay to put things right.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final
Decision. Miss B accepted the provisional decision. NewDay did not accept the provisional 
decision and made a number of further comments which I will summarise below.
NewDay said they are not required to ask for evidence of income and outgoings in the form 
of bank statements and the checks they performed were in line with the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC).
They said that when the credit limits had been increased, they reviewed internal and external 
information and Miss B had been managing her accounts well, often paying more than the 
minimum payment and there were no signs of financial difficulty with her other accounts 
which were being reported by credit reference agencies.
NewDay said their data showed that prior to the increases on the credit cards after June 
2018, the information they had was that Miss B had disposable income of £900 per month.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what NewDay have said regarding they are not required to verify Miss Bs 
income and outgoings using her bank statements and that they have followed the CONC 
rules. But the CONC rules also state under CONC 5.5A.21 that the extent and scope of the 
creditworthiness assessment, and the steps that the firm must take to satisfy the 
requirement that the assessment is a reasonable one, based on sufficient information, are 
dependent upon, and proportionate to, the individual circumstances of each case.
So, as I mentioned in my provisional decision, due to the individual circumstances of this 
case, as part of a proportionate check to validate Miss Bs income and expenditure then Im 
persuaded that NewDay should have requested information from Miss B to discuss her 
finances since credit card A nearly trebles from £600 to £1,600 and in the previous six 
months, Miss B went from having no credit with NewDay to having three credit cards and a 
fairly substantial credit limit increase on her first card. Miss B had previously defaulted on 
two accounts with lower default balances than what the card was being increased to (a total 
of £800), so Im still persuaded that as part of a proportionate check, NewDay should have 
requested information from Miss B to discuss her finances. This does not have to be from a 
bank statement but an example I used was her bank statements. 
Ive considered what NewDay have said about the information they used to assess Miss Bs 
affordability and that the information that NewDay had was that Miss B had a £900 a month 
disposable income. But looking at Miss Bs bank statements, this isnt an accurate reflection 
of Miss Bs finances. As mentioned in my provisional decision, Miss B was often using other 
borrowing (her overdraft) to make her NewDay monthly repayments and she had prolonged 
periods of time where her outgoings exceeded her income. And as Miss B was often only 
making minimum payments after the credit limits were increased then this would take years 
to pay the outstanding balance and would mean Miss B wasnt able to pay off the debt in a 
reasonable time.In summary, NewDays response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and my 
reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know NewDay will be 
disappointed with the decision, but I hope they understand my reasons.
  
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intended to ask NewDay Ltd to rework Miss Bs accounts 
to ensure that from the following dates, interest is only charged on the following amounts to 
reflect the fact that no further credit increases should have been provided. 
Card A From February 2018 £600
Card B From May 2018 £900
Card C From April 2018 £900
I said this as since Miss Bs credit limits were increased, Miss B had more outgoings than
income and/or a reliance on unsecured borrowing in the period of time before the credit
limits were increased. So as the credit limit increases shouldnt have been approved, I 
intended to ask NewDay to refund any fees and charges from the dates the first increases 
were approved as shown in the table above.
If the effect of removing interest, fees and charges over the initial credit limits result in there
no longer being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments
and returned to Miss B along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance remains
after all adjustments have been made, then NewDay Ltd should remove any adverse
information from Miss Bs credit file. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons 
given previously.  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. NewDay Ltd should rework Miss Bs accounts in line with what I have 
set out under the above section called Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman