DRN-2712120
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL/Amex) didnt 
adequately explain why her payment had been received by them a day late which caused a 
later payment to also be received a day late and for interest to be applied to her account.
What happened
In July 2020, Mrs B noticed that she had been charged interest on her Amex account. Mrs B 
called Amex to ask about this and was told that it was because the payment had been 
received by Amex a day late. The Amex advisor agreed to reimburse the interest amount, 
but no further explanation was given.
The next month, in August 2020, Mrs B again noticed that interest had been applied to her 
account. She called Amex again, and was again told that this was because the payment had 
been received a day late. It was explained to Mrs B at this time why this was happening, 
which enabled Mrs B to ensure that it didnt repeat moving forwards. But Amex wouldnt 
reimburse the interest charged on this occasion, because their policy only allows interest 
reimbursements to occur once in a 12-month period.
Mrs B wasnt happy with what had happened and felt that if things had been properly 
explained to her in the first instance, she could have taken steps to ensure that she wasnt 
charged interest in the second instance. So, she made a complaint.
Amex looked at Mrs Bs complaint, but they felt that information had been made available to 
Mrs B such that she could have taken steps to avoid the issue repeating itself, so they didnt 
uphold her complaint.
Mrs B wasnt satisfied with Amexs response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that information had been 
available to Mrs B such that she could have taken steps to avoid the payment being received 
late by Amex, so they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that this complaint concerns what was or wasnt explained to Mrs B by Amex on the 
phone call that took place following the first late payment in July 2020, it would have been 
useful to have been able to have listened to a recording of that call, as it would have 
provided definitive answers as to what exactly was said.
Unfortunately, Amex have been unable to provide a recording of this telephone call, as they 
only retain call recordings for a period of six months. This means I have had to consider 
other sources of information as well as other relevant considerations, when reaching a 
decision here.
The basis of Mrs Bs complaint is that she wasnt provided with a reasonable explanation of 
why her payment had been late on the phone call she made in July 2020. However, the 
notes of the call recorded on Amexs system suggest that the relevant explanation was 
provided to Mrs B at that time.
In circumstances such as this, where the version of events provided by opposing parties 
differs, I have to decide whether one version of events is more likely than not to have 
happened, on balance, and in light of all the information and evidence available to me. 
Its difficult to make such a decision here. I have no reason to doubt the testimony of Mrs B. 
Similarly, I have no reason to doubt the legitimacy of the note recorded by Amex at the time 
of the call. Ultimately, I do not know what happened on this call.
However, this call wasnt the only source of information available to Mrs B. Indeed, notice of 
when payments were due on the account was provided on the monthly statements, as well 
as being available to Mrs B via online access to her account. And Mrs B has confirmed that 
she had online access to her account.
So, its difficult to conclude that Mrs B shouldnt have been aware when the payment on her 
account was due, which means its similarly difficult to consider upholding this complaint in 
her favour. Mrs B has explained that she set up a monthly reminder on her phone to pay the 
account on the day that she thought the payment was due. But this meant that Mrs B was 
relying on information she had inputted into her phone herself to confirm when the payment 
was due, rather than relying on information provided directly by Amex, such as that on her 
monthly statement. 
It also must be noted that the payment was received a day late by Amex in July, and that if 
Mrs B wasnt sure why this was the case when the initial phone call with Amex ended, she 
could have contacted Amex again to inquire about this or checked the payment due date on 
her statements or via her online account.
Im aware that Mrs B feels that Amex should reimburse the interest charged for the second 
instance of her payment being received late in August, just as they reimbursed her in July. 
But Amex have explained that their policy if to only allow one interest reimbursement per 12-
month period. 
Amex are entitled to have such a policy, and in light of everything Ive considered above, I 
dont feel that Amexs application of this policy has led to an unfair or an unreasonable 
outcome here. And I say this because information on when the payments were due on the 
account was available to Mrs B, and because, ultimately, the responsibility for ensuring that 
those payments are made on time rests with her.
It follows then that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Amex to take any further 
action at this time. I realise this wont be the outcome that Mrs B was wanting, but I hope she 
can understand, based on what I have explained, why I have reached the final decision that I 
have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman