DRN-3767262
The complaint
The estate of Mr J has complained that Standard Life Assurance Limited (SL) failed 
to settle his personal pensions death benefits into Trust, which has led to an 
inheritance tax (IHT) liability.
What happened
Mr J held a personal pension (PP) with SL. 
In 2009 Mr J wrote to SL requesting that it cede the benefits of his policy to a trust. 
SL replied to this letter advising it needed to see trust documents before it could 
process his request. SL didnt receive a response to this letter and sent a reminder in 
2010, but again didnt receive a response.
In 2012 Mr J sent another letter requesting his benefits be placed into a Will trust 
hed created. SL responded to this confirming that its legal advisers had accepted 
Mr Js letter as an expression of wish but stated if a death claim was made it would 
need to see a copy of the will.
Mr J sadly passed away on 17 September 2016. 
When Mr Js estate submitted a death benefit claim under the policy SL incorrectly 
told Mrs J that Mr J had failed to notify it in writing that he wanted the proceeds paid 
to a trust. SL exercised its discretionary powers when settling the claim and settled 
the policy with a value of £73,754.78 to Mrs Js bank account in her capacity as one 
of the executors for the estate and the surviving spouse. 
Mrs J then sadly passed away on 1 August 2019.
The executors for both Mr and Mrs Js estates raised a complaint with SL as while 
they were in process of settling Mrs Js estate an IHT liability arose due to the funds 
that were paid out from Mr Js policy with SL. 
The executors have said that SL shouldnt have paid the funds directly to Mrs J as 
Mr J had created a Will trust which it had been notified about and acknowledged 
previously. 
SL has agreed that it did not follow the correct discretionary decision-making process 
when the claim was originally reviewed in 2016. Specifically, it had failed to request a 
copy of the Will and had it done so it could have considered Mr Js 2012 expression 
of wish for the benefits to be paid into the Wills trust. So because of this SL directed 
its Bereavement Team to fully reinvestigate the settlement of the claim. It was to 
review all the information that should have been considered when the original 
decision was made in 2016 and consider whether the decision of where to pay the 
monies would have been different.
The outcome of this review was that it couldnt conclude it would have made a 
different decision if the correct process had been followed in 2016. It stated this was 
because even if it had noted the expression of wish for the benefits to be paid to the 
trust, it would have still asked Mrs J if she wanted the funds paid to the trust or her 
directly as the surviving spouse. 
It also felt that Mrs J was aware of the trust she could have requested that SL pay 
the benefits to the trust. But as she didnt do this its likely Mrs J wanted the funds 
paid to her personal bank account as she had told SL initially in 2016. SL also noted 
that it couldnt retrospectively change the discretionary decision for the purpose of 
mitigating a tax liability.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and found that while SL had made a 
mistake when originally considering the distribution of benefits, it had taken the 
expected course of action in reviewing its original decision. And as our service 
doesnt have the power to change the discretion exercised by a business in such 
cases, he couldnt ask SL to do anything more in this instance.
The executors disagreed with the investigators findings and so the matter has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
I must make my decision by considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the case. And, in so doing, I am required to take into account relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what 
I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to not uphold the complaint.
SL has acknowledged that when processing the claim in 2016 there were certain 
failings on its part specifically relating to how the benefits were paid.
However, just because a business has made an error it does not automatically mean 
that it must pay compensation. Our service would only direct that a business take 
action or make a payment if were satisfied its actions have directly caused a 
financial loss. 
The pension in question here was a PP, and the terms and conditions of this policy 
confirm that SL held discretionary powers in relation to how death benefits were 
paid. 
This means that while it can take note of an expression of wish that the policy holder 
may have submitted, this isnt legally binding on it and it can exercise its powers as it 
deems fit when settling a claim. SL has agreed that it should have done more in 2016 when processing the death 
benefit claim, and it agreed to reassess its decision in light of these failings. 
The outcome of its reassessment was that it couldnt conclude it would have taken 
different action in 2016 even if it had requested a copy of the will as it should have 
done. 
SL has provided comprehensive reasons for why it reached this outcome, and our 
service doesnt have the power to change this decision. This is because of the 
discretionary powers SL possess as trustee of the policy benefits. 
All our service can do is make sure that all relevant evidence was considered and 
that it took this into account in its decision-making process. Which Im satisfied is the 
case here. 
I realise that the executors for the estate feel that when SL initially responded to their 
complaint it agreed it had made mistakes and would take action to put this right. 
While I appreciate that the executors feel this is an admission that SL shouldnt have 
paid the benefits to Mrs J and it should therefore be liable for the IHT charge Mrs Js 
estate now faces, this simply isnt what SL agreed to.
The final response letter clearly highlighted that it cant guarantee the scheme 
administrator will change the initial outcome. SL only agreed to review its initial 
decision, which it did do. 
Therefore, because of this I dont think SL acted incorrectly and I am satisfied it 
doesnt need to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr J 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman