DRN-3790305
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy Santander UK Plc hasnt reimbursed a transaction he reported as 
fraudulent.
What happened
Mr A contacted Santander after he discovered a £4,000 card payment had left his bank 
account which he says he didnt authorise. He explained hed received what he now realised 
was a scam phone call from someone impersonating the bank and so hed passed over 
personal details that had enabled them to make this payment. 
Santander didnt agree to refund Mr A or uphold his subsequent complaint about this.
When Mr A first came to us, he set out that he had not been affected financially as the 
money was to be put away as saving and had come from his son. Our investigator 
questioned him more on what he meant by this, and we also received further information 
from Santander about what Mr A had told them had happened. 
On a call with Santander, Mr A explained that the money was sent to him from his sons 
bank account. He said that the money was moved by his son to his account, as his sons 
account had been compromised by fraudsters, so the money was moved to keep it safe. 
While the case was with us Mr A explained that the loss of these funds had a great impact 
on his other finances and has meant hes now in arrears with other accounts and having to 
borrow money from family and friends.
The paperwork we held showed that the money wasnt received from the account Mr A told 
us it was, but instead from an electronic money institution (EMI). And that when it left Mr As 
account, it was paid to a firm Mr A had paid before and also received funds back from in late 
2021.
At this point our investigator issued an assessment explaining that it didnt seem the money 
lost in this case was Mr As. She didnt consider it was fair to ask Santander to reimburse 
Mr A for a loss which wasnt his. So she didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr A responded setting out that he felt Santander was responsible. He said his sons bank 
account had been compromised and all the funds in this had been used before his son 
noticed. The only account his son had that the fraudsters hadnt accessed was the EMI 
account, which is why Mr A received these funds. He said he hadnt used the firm that the 
£4,000 was paid to since 2021. He also added that he had loaned his son this money many 
months back, so while it was sent to him as safe keeping, it was also his money. He asked 
for an ombudsman to reconsider his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im in agreement with our investigator that we first need to establish if Mr A has suffered any 
loss before we can determine whether or not Santander has acted unfairly by not 
reimbursing him.
As set out above, Mr As testimony hasnt been consistent in this case. For example, its 
difficult to understand how this scam has caused Mr A so much financial difficulty if he was 
just saving the funds for his son. This isnt then money he would have expected to receive or 
be able to spend on the everyday things hes told us hes now fallen behind on. And his 
original testimony was detailed on which account the funds came from. But then later 
testimony set out that that specific account was emptied by fraudsters before Mr As son 
realised. So its unclear why Mr A originally told us hed received money from an account 
that had already been emptied.
Hes also told us the EMI account was the only one that wasnt accessed by fraudsters, but 
the statement for this account shows it only had £205.75 in it on the day of the scam. And 
that £4,000 was moved in before the £4,200 was sent out to Mr A. The details suggest this 
money came from an account in Mr As sons name, but I am unclear where the £4,000 
actually came from considering Mr A said his sons bank account was emptied before he 
realised hed been the victim of a scam.
I also have to consider that this money has been sent to a firm Mr A paid before. It seems a 
very strange coincidence that of all the people to pay, a fraudster would send money to 
someone Mr A has an existing relationship with. And he receives £4,200 in from his son, but 
the fraudster chose only to steal £4,000. Santanders records show the money was paid out 
within 5 minutes of Mr As son paying it in. This suggests that someone was watching the 
account and waiting for the payment, but then I would have expected them to take it all and 
drain the account, not leave Mr A some funds. 
Considering whats happened and the inconsistencies reported, I cant fairly say Santander 
has acted unfairly in not refunding Mr A. His original testimony to us, that he had no loss, 
seems the most persuasive to me. This was presented to us before he was aware of our 
stance and how what was said could impact our outcome. And this is the most consistent 
with what was reported to Santander too. I accept Mr A says he considers Santander is 
responsible here, but I dont agree. And whether or not Mr As son is able to recover the 
funds successfully from other firms doesnt change my view that Santander isnt responsible 
for refunding this money. Mr A is the customer in this complaint and I dont consider hes 
experienced a financial loss that needs to be put right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman