DRN-3330169
The complaint
B has complained (through its representative Mr O) about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc has 
dealt with its request for information regarding its account, failed to provide details of the 
advisor dealing with the request, and used an incorrect email address. 
B is a sports club. Mr O is one of its officers and brought this matter to us on the clubs 
behalf. 
B has an account with HSBC. 
What happened
Mr O wrote to HSBC in January 2021 requesting information regarding Bs account. No 
response was received and so Mr O sent an email chasing it up. 
It appears HSBC initially treated the email chaser as a complaint but later decided it was a 
request for information. And so the complaint was voided. Mr O says he didnt receive a 
response to his request. 
Mr O contacted HSBC in March 2021 to chase the information request again. He says HSBC 
told him the complaint was voided but he could raise a new complaint. Mr O told HSBC he 
had already made a complaint and didnt want to make another one, delaying matters for a 
further eight weeks. So a complaint wasnt raised, and the information request wasnt 
responded to. 
Mr O then raised further complaints with HSBC including the bank using an incorrect email 
address to communicate with B. Mr O asked HSBC for details of the advisor dealing with the 
complaint but says it wouldnt tell him.  
HSBC looked into things for Mr O. Initially it said it hadnt received a change of email 
address from B and the email address it used was provided at Bs account opening. It later 
said it had received a change of email request. But instead of replacing the old email 
address with the new one, it had added the new address to its system. HSBC offered B £100 
to reflect the failure in service and apologised.
Mr O referred Bs complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into things. He said 
HSBC had acted unfairly in some aspects of its handling of the information request and 
thought £100 was fair for HSBC to pay. 
Mr O didnt accept the investigators view on behalf of B. So the complaint has come to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator.  Im upholding 
the complaint Mr Os made on behalf of B. But I dont think HSBC need to pay B any more 
compensation than it has already offered. 
Its important to note my role here is to look at whether HSBC has acted within its terms and 
conditions and treated B fairly and reasonably. I am not able to address the wider issues of 
how HSBC organise its internal processes as thats not my role. I can see Mr O has raised a 
number of issues and requested evidence for various things. I dont intend to address each 
one separately. I want to assure Mr O I have considered the information he has provided. 
I understand Mr Os frustration. He has requested for some information from HSBC but he 
feels what he has requested has not been forthcoming. And so he has raised a complaint to 
try and obtain the information that way. 
Staff contact details 
HSBC have said it doesnt provide individual details of its staff as part of its policy. As 
previously explained I am unable to compel HSBC to change its processes as that is a 
business decision. 
So I am unable to say HSBC has done anything wrong in not providing handler details to Mr 
O.
Information request 
On 18 January 2021 an information request was made by B by email. The information 
requested largely related to documents concerning the business account registration 
process. I can see most of the documentation requested relates to events which happened 
from 2018 to 2020. 
HSBC has said the information requested was provided to Mr O in his capacity as an official 
of B under a Subject Access Request. This was sent to him in April 2020 and contained 
documents relating to the time period 2018 to 2020. Some of the information requested 
wasnt sent since B isnt entitled to it. HSBC explained that clubs fell outside of GDPR since 
they arent an identifiable individual. 
Having looked at the information provided to me Im satisfied HSBC has sent the information 
requested as far as it is required to. 
Incorrect email address
Mr O is unhappy HSBC used an email address belonging to a person no longer associated 
with the club. HSBC explained the email address was provided at account opening. And 
instead of replacing the email address with the correct one, it added the correct email to the 
file. Its not in dispute that a mistake was made when the correct email address was 
updated. So the issue I need to decide is what should be done by HSBC to put things right 
considering all of the circumstances. 
HSBC have acknowledged the mistake and taken steps to try and resolve the matter. It has 
amended Bs contact details on its system and offered to pay £100 to reflect the failure in 
service. And so while I can see Mr O isnt satisfied with the response received I think HSBC 
has done what I would have expected it to in order to correct the error. I agree mistakes have been made here but overall I think HSBC has done enough to 
acknowledge the impact of its mistake and tried to put things right. I think £100 
compensation HSBC has already offered is the right level to reflect the inconvenience to B. 
Since it is B that has the account, it is B that is entitled to bring the complaint and be 
awarded any redress. 
My final decision
For the reasons above Im upholding Bs complaint about HSBC UK Bank PLC and direct 
HSBC to pay B the £100 it has previously offered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B and B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman