DRN-4348973
The complaint
Mr C complains about Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (AIL) and their decision to decline 
the claim he made on his motor insurance policy after his car was deemed a total loss.
What happened
Mr C held a motor insurance policy, underwritten by AIL. Unfortunately, in December 2022, 
Mr C was involved in a road traffic accident. So, he contacted AIL to make a claim. The 
damage to Mr Cs car was inspected and following this, his car was deemed a total loss. But 
during the claim process, AIL noted that the cars MOT certificate had expired on 8 
December, 14 days before the accident took place. So, they thought Mr C had been driving 
without a valid MOT certificate and so, had breached the terms and conditions of his policy. 
And because of this, they declined Mr Cs claim.
Mr C disputed this decision. And he explained he had been driving to a local garage for the a 
MOT to be conducted, as hed been unwell with COVID-19 in the weeks before this which 
resulted in his initial MOT booked in for 8 December 2022 to be rescheduled.
AIL noted Mr Cs testimony. And they asked for evidence that showed Mr C had been 
suffering with COVID-19, and that MOTs had been booked in for 8 and 22 December. Mr C 
was unable to provide evidence regarding his health. And he was unable to show proof of 
booking before the 22 December, as he stated this was arranged verbally. But he did 
provide an email from the intended garage, stated an MOT had been arranged for 22 
December.
AIL considered the information Mr C supplied. But they didnt think this satisfied them that Mr 
C was definitely driving to an MOT appointment on the date of the accident and so, they 
maintained their decision to decline the claim. Mr C was unhappy about this, so he raised a 
complaint.
Mr C thought AILs decision to decline his claim was unfair. He thought the evidence 
supplied showed he was driving to an MOT appointment and so, he was driving legally at the 
time. Because of this, he thought AIL should reverse their decision and accept the claim.
AIL responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They felt theyd acted fairly, and in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy, when declining the claim. And they thought they 
had given Mr C reasonable opportunity to provide satisfactory evidence he was driving to an 
MOT, which they didnt feel they had received. So, they didnt think they needed to do 
anything more. Mr C remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to 
us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought the policy Mr C 
held made it clear he was required to have a valid MOT certificate when driving. And they 
were satisfied he didnt at the time of the accident. They also didnt think the evidence Mr C 
supplied satisfied them, beyond reasonable doubt, that he was driving to a pre-booked MOT 
appointment and so, they didnt think they could say AIL had acted unfairly when declining 
the claim. So, they didnt think AIL needed to do anything more.
Mr C didnt agree. And he resent the email he received from the garage he says was 
intended to complete the MOT, which stated an appointment was booked in for 22 
December 2022. Our investigator reaffirmed their view, explaining this email had already 
been considered. Mr C didnt agree and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr C. I recognise he paid for 
the policy, underwritten by AIL, to assist him both practically and financially in a situation 
such as the one he found himself in. So, when he became aware his claim had been 
declined and he wouldnt receive a payment for his car which had been deemed a total loss, 
I can understand why hed feel unfairly treated.
And I can appreciate how this would be made worse when he realised AILs reasoning, 
considering his testimony that he was travelling to an MOT appointment and that this was a 
rescheduled appointment due to his ill health around that time.
But for me to say AIL should do something differently, such as overturn their claim decision 
and accept it, I first need to be satisfied AIL have done something wrong. So, Id need to be 
satisfied that, when declining the claim, they failed to act within the terms and conditions of 
the policy Mr C held. Or, if I think they did act within these, Id need to be satisfied they acted 
unfairly in some other way. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
It's not in dispute that Mr C didnt have a valid MOT certificate in place at the time of the 
accident. Ive seen evidence that shows Mr Cs previous MOT ran out on 8 December 2022. 
And Mr C himself has confirmed this, explaining he had booked in an MOT for that date only 
for it to be rescheduled due to him having COVID-19 and so, was unable to attend.
Ive also seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mr C held. And these explain, within the 
general conditions section of the policy, that all reasonable steps must be taken to: (b) 
ensure your vehicle or trailer is in a safe and roadworthy condition before stating When 
required by law, your vehicle or trailer must be covered by a valid Ministry of Transport Test 
Certificate at the date of any accident, loss or theft.
The policy also explains that AIL will only provide the cover described in this policy if any 
person claiming indemnity has complied with all of its terms and conditions.
In this situation, I think its made reasonably clear that a condition of the policy was for Mr 
Cs car to have a valid MOT certificate at the time of the accident. And in this situation, it 
didnt. So, I dont think I can say AIL have acted outside of the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining the claim, as its made reasonably clear they will only provide cover if 
all of the conditions were met. And I dont think they were here.
But as Ive explained above, Ive also thought about whether AIL acted fairly. And I 
recognise Mr C doesnt think they have as hes explained he was travelling to a pre-booked 
MOT appointment at the time of the accident. So, while Mr C doesnt dispute he didnt have a valid MOT certificate, he thinks he was still driving legally in line with road traffic laws.
Ive seen AIL confirm to both Mr C, and our service, that they would consider indemnifying 
and accepting the claim taking this point into consideration, if Mr C was able to provide 
evidence to show an MOT appointment was pre-booked. And Ive seen AIL have given Mr C 
the opportunity to provide this information. So, I think AIL acted fairly, and took Mr Cs 
arguments into consideration, as Id expect them to do.
Ive then considered the evidence Mr C did supply. He was unable to provide evidence of his 
illness altogether, or evidence his original MOT appointment on 8 December 2022 was 
booked, and then rescheduled.
But Mr C was able to provide an email from a local garage he says was due to complete the 
MOT. This email was sent in January 2023, after the accident, explaining Mr C was booked 
in for an MOT on 22 December 2022. So, I can understand why Mr C thinks this information 
should be sufficient.
But crucially, I dont think it is on this occasion. To be able to show the appointment was pre-
booked, Id expect Mr C to be able to provide some form of information that shows the 
appointment was arranged prior to him travelling on 22 December. And Mr C has been 
unable to provide this.
While I appreciate Mr C may have arranged the MOT over the phone, I would expect Mr C to 
have received some form of written confirmation confirming this. Or, if the garage was able 
to confirm Mr C was due to attend an MOT on 22 December in January 2023, then Id expect 
Mr C to be able to provide some form of evidence from the garage, that shows it was booked 
into whatever system they use. And if neither of the above was possible, at the very least Id 
expect to see evidence of the calls between Mr C and the garage, where he says the MOTs 
were booked in verbally. But to this date, Mr C has been unable to provide this.
So, because of the above, I dont think I can say AIL have acted unfairly when deciding the 
information Mr C provided wasnt sufficient to show them, beyond reasonable doubt, that an 
MOT appointment was definitely pre-booked for 22 December 2022, when the accident 
occurred. And I also think its important to note that by 22 December 2022, Mr C had been 
able to obtain a valid MOT certificate for over six weeks, as law allows an MOT to be 
completed up to a month before the end of the previous certificate. So, while I do appreciate 
the unfortunate timing considering Mr Cs testimony, I do think he had the ability to ensure a 
valid MOT certificate was obtained before the accident occurred. Because of this, I dont 
think they need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr C was hoping for. And I appreciate Mr C is unlikely to 
agree, considering his testimony regarding his MOT appointment, and his reason for travel. 
But our service is an evidence-based organisation. And where necessary, we must take 
decisions on what we think is most likely to have happened, based on the evidence available 
to us. In this situation, I dont think I can say the evidence Mr C has supplied is enough to 
satisfy me, beyond reasonable doubt, that AIL acted unfairly when taking the decision they 
have.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about Accredited Insurance 
(Europe) Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman