DRN-3029041
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mr B says Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold that PPI policy to him. 
I know when PPI was sold to Mr B, Bank of Scotland was trading as Halifax. To keep things 
simple, Ill refer to Halifax for the rest of this decision. 
What happened
The PPI sold to Mr B was a total mortgage protection plan (TMPP). A TMPP typically 
comprised a number of different types of insurance products such as PPI, critical illness 
cover and life protection. It was possible to choose some or all of the products that were 
offered. In this case, PPI, critical illness and life cover were sold to Mr B. However, he has 
only complained about the PPI element of that cover, so thats what Ive looked at in this 
decision. 
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Bs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent materially disputed. So I havent repeated all of that information 
here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below. 
Mr B told us that the cover was sold to him on the telephone. But after considering the 
documentation thats available from the time, I can see the cover was actually sold during a 
face to face meeting in a Halifax branch. I cant know what was said during that meeting. So 
to help me decide whats likely to have happened, Ive relied on the contemporaneous 
documents provided by Halifax. Although Mr B couldnt recall how PPI had been sold, Ive 
still taken his comments about what happened at the point of sale into account. 
 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Halifax made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take 
out the PPI if he didnt want it.  Those representing Mr B didnt specifically argue that the 
optional nature of the cover was not made clear. But it was argued that the PPI was 
presented as part of a package with the mortgage. After taking account of the evidence 
before me, I cant reasonably say that was the case. I can see that a separate application 
had to be made for PPI, and Mr B had to provide background details about his health and his 
employment status. If PPI was presented as being part of the mortgage, I think Mr B would 
have queried why he had to make a separate application for it. The evidence Ive seen 
doesnt suggest he did. 
Ive treated this as an advised sale because the sale took place in a Halifax branch. Mr B 
could well have reasonably thought Halifax was recommending PPI after taking a detailed 
account of his personal circumstances. So, it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
To help me decide whether the policy was suitable, Ive looked at the terms and conditions 
of the cover. And Ive also thought about what we know about Mr Bs circumstances at the 
point of sale. I can see that if hed needed to make a PPI claim, Mr Bs mortgage 
repayments would have been covered for up to 12 months for each claim if he was off sick 
from work or if he lost his job. There was a 30-day waiting period. 
Mr B told us he wasnt entitled to any contractual sick pay from his employer. And he didnt 
have any other means with which to meet his mortgage repayments if he was out of work. I 
must stress that this mortgage was secured on Mr Bs home, so if he fell behind with those 
repayments, his home could have been at risk. In those circumstances, I can see how PPI  
could have been helpful to Mr B if he wasnt working. 
Ive next considered whether Mr B would have been affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations on the cover. Mr B told us he had been diagnosed with hay fever in 1989  but 
this was over 15 years before the cover was sold. The evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest 
that hed have reasonably needed to take time off work for this condition some 15 years after 
that diagnosis. Mr B also said hed had a whiplash injury, which caused him to be off work 
for a couple of days. The date of that injury is unclear. Mr B told us it occurred in June 2005, 
but Halifaxs records indicate he was injured in 2004. Either way, I dont  think I can 
reasonably say Mr B would have needed to take 30 consecutive days off work (which is the 
waiting period for this policy). So I dont think Mr Bs stated medical conditions rendered this 
policy unsuitable. 
Mr B was eligible for the cover. His representative argued that his work as an electrician was 
a high-risk occupation and so he would have been excluded from making a claim. I dont 
agree. I cannot see anything in the terms and conditions of the cover that would have made 
it more difficult for Mr B to claim because of the nature of his work. As far as I can see there 
was nothing unusual about Mr Bs employment or occupation that would have made it more 
difficult for him to claim. Overall, Im satisfied the cover probably was suitable for Mr B. Nevertheless, Halifax still had to provide Mr B with information about the cover. Its possible 
that information wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that Mr B chose to take it 
out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. As Ive set out above, the cover wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for Mr B, nor too dissimilar to what its most likely he reasonably 
thought he was buying from the information he was most likely given. I havent seen 
anything to suggest the cover was unaffordable. So it seems like it would have been useful 
for him at what would have no doubt been a stressful time for Mr B if he was out work. 
Because of this I dont think Mr B would have declined the cover had Halifax given him more 
or better information about it. 
I accept the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in that Mr B would have had to provide specialist medical evidence in order to 
make a successful claim. But I dont think hed have reasonably thought hed be able to 
make a claim without providing supportive medical evidence regardless. So in light of Mr Bs 
circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations, I remain of the view that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So I think he would have still 
thought he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr B would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit if Mr B was out of work. I also think the policy was sufficiently close to what its 
likely he thought he was getting. And in those circumstances, I think that he would have 
taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Bs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Halifax doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman