DRN-1805801
The complaint
Mr W complains that Canada Life Limited will not allow him to cash-in his annuity for a lump 
sum.
What happened
In 2010, Mr W took out a Canada Life annuity purchased on the open market option. The 
fund came from a pension built up with an employer. The fund was valued at just short of 
£9,000 and Mr W chose to take out a single life annuity which would pay £597.84 per 
annum. This also included a five year guarantee period. 
At the time Mr W was provided with documentation. And within this multiple warnings were 
included to say that once in payment the annuity couldnt be cashed-in. This was also 
included on the forms Mr W signed when he took out the annuity.
More recently in 2019, Mr W has asked that Canada Life allow him to cash-in his annuity. 
Hes aware that in some cases other providers have allowed this and that legislation does 
allow annuity providers to offer this at their discretion. Hes said the monthly payments of 
around £40 are of no real use to him and his wife and a lump sum would be much more 
beneficial.
However, Canada Life explained that it had taken a decision not to offer the cashing-in of 
annuities to its customers. It explained that it didnt think this would result in a fair or good 
outcome. And that it had made it clear at the outset that its annuities wouldnt have a cash-
in value.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but he didnt agree with Mr W. He explained that 
this decision was at Canada Lifes discretion and that it had been clear in its communication 
about this from the outset. 
Mr W disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look into the case. Mr W explained that at 
the time of taking out his annuity, he had thought he was going to get a lump sum. But then 
was told on leaving his employers scheme that in fact he couldnt have a lump sum and 
would instead have to take an annuity. He said since hes learned of pension freedoms and 
the present legislation, hes no longer happy to go along with the annuity, as he doesnt think 
its in his best interests. He thinks Canada Lifes decision is good for their business but its not 
a good or fair outcome for him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr W came to take his benefits in 2010, the rules didnt allow for benefits to be taken 
as a lump sum unless certain criteria were met. Mr W has said he doesnt understand 
exactly why but he was told that he couldnt have the lump-sum and would need to take an 
annuity. I think the situation Mr W has referred to, is that at the time in 2010, the value of all 
his pension funds needed to be under £18,000 (excluding the state pension) to be eligible to 
take his benefits as a lump sum. 
As Mr W hadnt met this criteria, he had to take an annuity. Mr W chose to go to Canada Life 
on the open market option, it couldnt offer him the option of the full value as a lump-sum. It 
had to abide by the legislation.
Since then legislation around annuities has changed and since the introduction of pension 
freedoms legislation, providers can now offer customers the opportunity to take the whole 
fund as a lump sum rather than taking an annuity. But this legislation didnt say annuities 
already in payment could be taken as a lump sum.
The government looked at introducing a secondary annuity market, where customers would 
be able to cash in their annuities. But, after consultation, the government didnt carry this 
forward, mainly because of concerns that it wouldnt be in consumers best interest to cash-
in annuities. And because of the complexities around valuing this and whether this would 
provide fair value to customers.
So, the current rules generally dont allow a customer to cash-in an annuity and take a lump 
sum payment. However, in instances where the value of that annuity is less than £10,000, it 
can be cashed-in if the provider offers this. As Mr Ws annuity was purchased for under 
£10,000 10 years ago, he understandably wants to take up this option.
Canada Life have said theyve chosen not to offer this and in the most part this reflects the 
stance taken by others in the industry. 
When Mr W took out the annuity, his pension was used to buy this annuity, so his pot no 
longer has a value. At the time it was made clear the annuity couldnt be cashed-in. And 
Canada Life have remained constant in this stance and in its communication with Mr W.
If Canada Life were to agree to cash-in the annuity, it would not be a simple calculation of 
the value of the fund in 2010 minus the value Mr W has now received to date. Instead it 
would be a calculation based on how much it would now cost Canada Life to provide an 
annuity of £597.88 based on current rates and Mr Ws circumstances now.
I can completely understand why Mr W would prefer this option. But as we are an impartial 
service and not consumer champions, I need to consider whether it would be fair and 
reasonable to say that Canada Life should offer this to Mr W.
The legislation isnt compulsory, Canada Life has been clear since the outset that it cannot 
be cashed-in. And whilst the monthly sum is fairly small it will still have some material 
benefit. So, I dont think there are any grounds to say Canada Life is treating Mr W unfairly 
or unreasonably in continuing to honour the original contract agreed by both parties in 2010.
I understand that Mr W would consider himself better off and get more use from a lump sum 
now than continuing with the monthly annuity payments. But I dont think Mr Ws 
circumstances are such that Canada Life is treating him unfairly in not agreeing to this. So 
far Mr W has had nearly £6,000 from his annuity and in the not too distant future he will have 
received the value of his pot back in annuity payments. This is despite the fact he took out a 
five year guarantee, which wouldve decreased the value of his annuity. In the 
circumstances, I cant say that it would be fair and reasonable to say that Canada Life has to 
do something differently here for Mr W. 
Mr W has made the point that it seems unfair that he is aware of other circumstances where 
providers have agreed to cash-in annuities. And that there doesnt seem to be any consistency. Mr W is correct there have been some instances where businesses have 
allowed individuals to cash-in annuities. But by and large the majority of businesses dont 
offer it but in certain circumstances some have made exceptions. And a minority of 
businesses have made offers more widely. But this is a product of the legislation, businesses 
dont have to offer this to everyone, its at their discretion.
If Canada Life changes its view in the future, Id expect it to reconsider Mr Ws case if he still 
wants it to do so.
I understand that Mr W will be disappointed with my decision but as Ive said I dont think 
there are grounds for me to conclude that Canada Life needs to do more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman