DRN-1193277
 
The complaint
Mr Q says Citygate Automotive Ltd (trading as Citygate Watford) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a single premium PPI policy taken out with a loan in 2009. Mr Q 
applied for the PPI at a meeting.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Citygate disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Qs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Qs complaint because:
Citygate recommended the policy to Mr Q but I dont think it was suitable for him. The 
policy would only pay unemployment benefit once the customer had been in 
continuous employment for twelve months. Mr Q has told me he had been working 
for his employer for seven months when he took out the policy, and before that he 
was a student. So if Mr Q had lost his job during the first five months of the policy, it's 
unlikely he would've been able to make a successful unemployment claim on it. As 
such, I'm not persuaded the policy was suitable for Mr Q, and I don't think 
Citygate should've recommended it to him.
 
I dont think Mr Q would have bought the policy if Citygate had made it clear it wasnt 
suitable. So, I think Mr Q has lost out because of what the business did wrong.
Ive taken into account Citygates comments, including what it said about the overall length 
of the loan, and the relatively short period during which Mr Q wouldn't have been able to 
make a successful unemployment claim on the policy. But I remain mindful that Mr Q 
wouldn't have been able to claim for unemployment benefit during the first five months of the 
policy. I think that period is too long, so I still don't think Citygate's recommendation to take 
the policy was suitable.
Citygate also mentions that the policy provided other benefits, in addition to unemployment 
benefit. I accept that's the case, but Mr Q was buying the policy on the basis that he would 
be able to claim for all of its benefits. I'm not persuaded that was the case, so I still think he 
has lost out because of what the business did wrong.Citygate has referred to Mr Q's eligiblity for the policy. It's not in dispute that Mr Q was 
eligible for the cover. But as I've already said, he would've had difficulty making a successful 
unemployment claim during the policy's first five months because he hadn't been 
in continuous employment for twelve months when he took out the policy. 
Putting things right
Mr Q borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve been. 
He paid more than he shouldve each month and it cost him more to repay the loan than it 
wouldve. So Mr Q needs to get back the extra hes paid.
So, Citygate should:
Work out and pay Mr Q the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he wouldve paid without PPI.  
Work out and pay Mr Q the difference between what it cost to pay off the loan and 
what it would have cost to pay off the loan without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr Q paid from when he paid it until 
he gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr Q made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Citygate can take off what 
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
If the lender that provided the finance for Mr Q's loan has already repaid any 
commission amount to Mr Q that relates to this PPI sale, that sum can be deducted 
by Citygate from the amount it owes him. 
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Citygate to take off tax from this interest. Citygate must 
give Mr Q a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Citygate Automotive Ltd (trading as 
Citygate Watford) to pay compensation to Mr Q in line with the instructions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
 
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman