DRN-2445306
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the decision made by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) to void his 
landlord insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2019, Mr H took out the policy with UKI through a broker. A year later, he made 
a claim for damage to the property. 
UKI turned down the claim and voided the policy (cancelled it from the start) because it 
thought Mr H hadnt made a fair presentation of the risk when taking out the policy. Unhappy 
with this, Mr H brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought UKIs actions in 
voiding the policy had been reasonable. 
Mr H didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr H would be considered a professional landlord, and that the relevant law 
to consider here is the Insurance Act 2015.
Mr H was required to make a fair presentation of the risk to UKI when taking out the policy. 
In other words, he needed to tell UKI everything he knew, or ought to have known, that 
would influence it in deciding whether to accept the risk or not. Alternatively, he needed to 
give UKI enough information to put it on notice that it needed to make further enquiries about 
potentially material circumstances. 
Mr H didnt carry out background checks on his tenant, and didnt confirm his tenants 
employment status. I agree with our investigator that the lack of background checks would 
be material information that would have influenced UKI in deciding whether or not to accept 
the risk.
Also, when Mr H took out the policy, he was provided with a quote which included a 
statement of fact. That explained that he had a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk, 
and that UKI had relied upon the information provided to calculate a premium and apply 
terms and conditions upon which the insurance cover was offered. Mr H was advised to 
check all the information and tell the agent acting on his behalf if any of the details were 
incorrect. It also said that if he failed to do so, that may mean the policy wouldnt be valid or 
a claim may not be paid. 
The statement of fact then listed a number of assumptions about the tenant/s. Once of those 
said:
At least one of the tenants signing any tenancy agreement with you are either employed or 
retired, or in receipt of a disability benefit at the point of signing the tenancy agreement.
We asked Mr H why he agreed with the assumption, and his representative says that he 
neither agreed nor disagreed. However, the statement of fact made it clear that if any of the 
information was wrong (which would include the assumptions), then he should contact his 
agent. Mr H didnt do this, and so the policy went ahead. I dont agree with Mr Hs 
representative that the word assumption is ambiguous.
As UKI made it clear on the statement of fact that Mr Hs tenants employment status was 
relevant, Im satisfied he ought to have known that this was information that would influence 
UKI in deciding whether to accept the risk or not. However, Mr H hadnt confirmed his 
tenants employment status, and so he shouldnt have agreed with the assumption.
Consequently, I think Mr H failed to make a fair presentation of the risk. I therefore need to 
think about what UKI would have done, had Mr H made a fair presentation of the risk. 
The policy was taken out via a broker, so I cant see the information that Mr H was asked 
when taking out the policy. But UKI says that Mr H/his broker would have had to agree to the 
assumption on the statement of fact in order for the policy to go ahead. And if Mr H/his 
broker hadnt agreed with that assumption, it wouldnt have offered the policy.
Im therefore satisfied that there was a qualifying breach of Mr Hs duty of fair presentation. 
As UKI wouldnt have offered the policy unless Mr H had agreed with the statement of fact, it 
was entitled to void the policy.
UKI also thought the breach was deliberate or reckless. For me to agree with this, UKI would 
need to show that Mr H knew that there was a breach of the duty of fair presentation, or he 
didnt care whether or not he was in breach of that duty. 
Given that Mr H hasnt been able to provide any explanation as to why he agreed with the 
statement of fact when he hadnt confirmed his tenants employment status, I think its 
reasonable to conclude that he didnt care whether or not he was in breach of that duty. 
Consequently, I think UKI was entitled to conclude that the breach was reckless and void the 
policy and keep the premiums.
UKI also said the policy included a condition precedent to liability where cover for the illegal 
cultivation of drugs would only be covered if certain conditions were met, including obtaining 
satisfactory references for the tenant from a previous managing agent or landlord or an 
employer. And that Mr H didnt obtain this information before letting the property.
However, as Im satisfied that UKI was entitled to void the policy due to a breach of the duty 
of fair presentation, I dont need to consider whether the claim fell under the above condition 
precedent to liability.
Mr Hs representative says that UKI failed to initially log the complaint as such. However, I 
dont have jurisdiction to consider complaints about complaint handling. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman