DRN-3212252
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo 
Finance Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 26 April 2021, Mr S was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with MotoNovo. The agreement was for £4,995; with 59 monthly repayments of £112.75 and 
a final payment of £113.75. At the time the car was just over five and a half years old and 
had done 48,319 miles.
Mr S said that he started to experience problems with the car shortly after taking possession 
of it  there was a lack of power and the car was misfiring. He returned the car to the 
supplying dealership for repair, but the faults were still there when the car was returned to 
him. Mr S complained to MotoNovo, who arranged for an independent engineer to inspect 
the car. MotoNovo said the independent engineer had said there were no faults with the car, 
so they didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S wasnt happy with MotoNovos response, and he referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said that, from the evidence hed seen, he was satisfied there was a 
problem with the car. Hes said that both a report from a garage (supplied by Mr S) and the 
independent engineers report identify a fault with the catalytic convertor. And, because the 
fault was identified within two months of Mr S taking possession of the car, he thought the 
fault wouldve been present or developing when the car was supplied to him. He also 
thought this made the car of an unsatisfactory quality.
Because Mr S had already taken the car back to the dealership for repair, and this repair had 
failed, the investigator said that Mr S should now be allowed to reject the car. Mr S stopped 
using the car in October 2021, because of the problems with it, and has since acquired 
another vehicle. So, the investigator said that MotoNovo should also refund Mr S all 
payments hed made since October 2021, plus statutory interest, and pay him an additional 
£150 for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused.
MotoNovo didnt agree with the investigator. They said that a fault code can be an indication 
of a fault, but it doesnt mean there is one. And the fault code doesnt prove there was a 
problem with the car when it was supplied. MotoNovo also said that Mr S had the car for two 
months before it was inspected by the independent engineer, and any fault couldve 
developed during that time. Because MotoNovo didnt agree with the investigator, this matter 
has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr S was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
MotoNovo are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale; and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless MotoNovo can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, its for Mr S to show that it was present when the car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr S took possession of it, and this made the car not 
of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask MotoNovo to put this right.
In an email dated 5 July 2021, MotoNovo confirmed that Mr S first complained to them about 
issues with the car on 19 May 2021  just over three weeks after taking possession of it. 
There were a number of issues raised, and these included the engine misfiring and that the 
revolutions of the engine were fluctuating. MotoNovo also confirmed that the car had done 
49,919 miles at this point  1,600 miles since supply. This email also confirms that Mr S took 
the car back to the supplying dealership on 16 June 2021. And the dealership replaced that 
spark plugs and cleaned and greased the brakes.
Ive seen a copy of the independent engineers report dated 25 June 2021. At the point of 
inspection, the car had done 53,445 miles. The report clearly states, we undertook a 
diagnostic test which produced only one fault code  P0420 catalytic convertor loss of 
efficiency intermittent fault. The report also says, we found no evidence of any significant 
issues that should give rise for concern and we would conclude that the vehicle was fault 
free and in a condition commensurate with its age and condition.
Its clear to me that this report is contradictory  the car cannot have a fault, have no 
significant issues (which implies non-significant issues), and be fault-free at the same time. 
Mr S has provided a report from a garage, dated 28 September 2021. At the time of this 
report, the car had done 60,252 miles. The report says there is a P0420 catalytic convertor 
effectiveness loss fault, which was possibly caused by a worn or blocked catalytic convertor. 
It also says there is a B132B-15 button backlighting fault.
Mr S first complained to MotoNovo about the engine performance within 30 days of the car 
being supplied to him. I appreciate that, in their comments on the investigators view, 
MotoNovo said that Mr S didnt complain until two months after supply, but this is clearly not 
the case. The independent engineer identified an issue with the catalytic convertor, and this 
has been confirmed by the garage report a few months later. And the independent engineer 
also said this was an intermittent fault, which may explain why it didnt show up on the very 
short road test that was carried out. Nevertheless, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied there is a fault with the car, 
which both the independent engineer and the garage report have confirmed was present. 
And, its my understanding that a fault of this nature, although intermittent, would present 
itself as an engine performance issue  which is what Mr S complained to MotoNovo about 
within the first 30-days.
MotoNovo have confirmed that the supplying dealership attempted a repair in June 2021, 
and the evidence shows that this repair failed, as a fault is still present. The CRA allows for 
Mr S to be able to reject the car in these circumstances. And, given the facts and 
circumstances, Im satisfied he should be allowed to do so.
Putting things right
Mr S says he stopped using the car on 9 October 2021, because of the faults. And hes 
provided a photograph of the odometer (taken in January 2022) which shows 61,741 miles. 
Because the garage report of 28 September 2021 shows a mileage of 60,252 miles, and this 
only differs from the current mileage by 1,489 miles (when Mr Ss average monthly mileage 
was around 2,400 miles); Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr S stopped using the 
car in October 2021.
Because Mr S had use of the car from late April to early October 2021, I think its reasonable 
that he pays for this. But any payments hes paid from October 2021 onwards should be 
refunded to him.
The investigator recommended that MotoNovo pay Mr S £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience hed been caused. The car had an intermittent fault that made driving difficult 
because of the lack of power. And it had to go for repair / reports on at least three occasions. 
Eventually, Mr S had to stop driving the car, and obtain a replacement, because the fault 
made it unreliable. Because of this, I think that the investigators recommendation is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
So, MotoNovo should now arrange to do the following:
end the agreement with nothing more to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr S;
remove any adverse information from Mr Ss credit file relating to this agreement;
refund all payments received from October 2021 to the date the agreement ends;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refund, calculated from the date Mr S made 
the payment to the date of the refund ; and
pay Mr S an additional £150 to reflect the trouble and upset hes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires MotoNovo to take off tax from this interest. MotoNovo 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ss complaint. MotoNovo Finance Limited must 
follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 Andrew Burford
Ombudsman