DRN-2331717
The complaint
Miss D complains that Experian Limited failed to update her credit file correctly after a 
complaint about a lender was upheld and it agreed to write off the outstanding balance.
 
What happened
Miss D complained that another business had lent to her irresponsibly. On 30 April 2019 the 
lender sent Miss D an email to confirm it had taken the decision to write off the outstanding 
balance of the loan and tell the credit reference agencies to remove any adverse information 
reported. 
On 28 May 2019 Miss D complained to Experian as the information about the loan on her 
credit file was still wrong. Experian contacted the loan provider and asked for confirmation 
that it could update Miss Ds records as she requested. 
The lender responded to confirm the default information could be removed but Miss D 
contacted Experian again to explain that the information still wasnt right. Experian 
responded on 11 July 2019 and said it was responsible for collecting and reporting 
information from the lender. Experian said that the lender was responsible for updating any 
errors but refunded a £14.99 monthly fee as a gesture of goodwill. 
After Experian deleted the default information, the original lender reported it again which 
meant it reappeared on Miss Ds credit file. Experian has been back to the lender several 
times and the information on Miss Ds credit file now correctly shows that the loan was 
settled in April 2019. There is no default. 
Miss D referred her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. In its file 
submission, Experian said it could have removed the second reported default from Miss Ds 
credit file slightly sooner and offered her £50 to apologise. The investigator thought 
Experians offer was fair as they didnt find that it has made errors in the information 
reported. Miss D asked to appeal so her complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Miss D has complained and I agree that once the original lender 
confirmed the loan was considered settled without a default, the information on her credit file 
should have been amended. The issue here is that Experian doesnt control the dates or 
specific information reported by a lender. In this case, Experian had no input into whether 
the account was reported as defaulted, settled or in arrears. Experians role is to report the 
information recorded by the lender. Based on the information Ive seen, thats what it did. 
When a consumer raises concerns about the information being reported by a lender I would 
expect Experian to take it seriously. Experian has provided evidence to show that each time 
Miss D raised a concern about the information reported, it contacted the lender to query it. 
Experian can only remove or amend information with specific permission from the business 
reporting it. Experian needed the lenders permission to remove the default and arrears and 
amend the settlement details and Im satisfied that, once that was provided, it made the 
necessary changes. 
The issue was complicated by the fact that after the original default was removed by the 
lender, the account was reported as being in default again. I appreciate that doesnt reflect 
what actually happened, but the incorrect default information wasnt provided by Experian. 
As Ive said above, Experian is responsible for recording the information provided by the 
lender. Im satisfied that the evidence shows the original lender told Experian to remove the 
default but later reported Miss Ds account as being in default again. I can see default 
information was wrong, but Im satisfied it wasnt Experians error that caused it to be 
reported. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss D but I havent been persuaded to uphold her complaint or tell 
Experian to increase the £50 settlement its offered. Whilst I do agree there were errors, Im 
satisfied the evidence shows that Experian reported the information it was given by the 
lender accurately. In addition, when Miss D raised concerns about the information being 
reported, Experian was quick to contact the lender to check whether her credit file could be 
amended. 
Overall, Im satisfied Experian has dealt with Miss Ds complaint fairly and that its offer of 
£50 is fair in all the circumstances. As a result, Im upholding Miss Ds complaint and 
endorsing Experians offer of £50. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Experian Limited to pay Miss D £50. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman