DRN-3997870
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Vitality Corporate Services Limited (Vitality) incorrectly cancelled 
his life and critical illness policy.
What happened
Mr B had a life and critical illness policy with Vitality which he took out a number of years 
ago. However, the policy was cancelled by Vitality in 2016 as it hadnt been able to collect a 
direct debit payment. It sent reminder and lapse letters in 2016.
Mr B says he never received any letters from Vitality and wasnt aware that the direct debit 
hadnt been collected or that his policy had been cancelled. He complained to Vitality and 
asked it to reinstate his policy but Vitality said it wasnt able to do this as it had followed its 
proper procedures.
Unhappy, Mr B referred his complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Vitality had done anything wrong. 
Mr B disagreed and said he was upset and distressed and wanted an Ombudsmans 
decision. 
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. And largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr Bs policy was cancelled as a result of a direct debit not being paid in 2016. Vitality has 
provided copies of the letters it sent to Mr B and screenshots from its system to show that 
the letters were sent to Mr Bs correct address. These letters confirmed that the direct debit 
had failed and that the policy would lapse if payment wasnt made by a specific date. 
Vitality cancelled the policy as no further contact or payment was made by Mr B. As Mr B 
hasnt been paying any premiums since 2016, I dont think its fair for me to ask Vitality to 
reinstate his policy so many years later. 
I note Mr B says he didnt receive Vitalitys letters. But as the letters were correctly 
addressed, I have to assume that they were sent to Mr B. There may be a reason why Mr B 
didnt receive the letters, for example, due to postal issues. But I cant hold Vitality 
responsible for any external causes.  
Im sorry to hear of Mr Bs health circumstances and the difficult and distressing situation he 
is in. And I appreciate he will be disappointed with my decision. But I have to make my 
decision based on the available evidence which indicates that Vitality followed correct 
procedures when cancelling the policy due to non-payment. So I cant fairly ask it to reinstate 
the policy.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman