DRN-3873699
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that Simplyhealth Access trading as Simplyhealth reduced the 
daily rate of the hospital benefit, when renewing their private health insurance policy in 2022. 
They would like the daily rate to return to what it was before the policy renewed.
What happened
For many years Mr and Mrs C have had the benefit of private medical insurance, which they 
agreed to renew each year. 
When renewing their policy in 2022, Simplyhealth reduced the daily rate of the hospital 
benefit. Previously, the daily rate had been £95 per day (up to maximum number of days) for 
the level of cover Mr and Mrs C were paying for. However, Simplyhealth had reduced the 
daily rate to £20 per day for all levels of cover, without reducing the premium.
Unhappy Mr and Mrs C complained to Simplyhealth. And when their concerns werent 
upheld, Mr and Mrs C complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C 
disagreed, so their complaint has now been passed to me to consider everything afresh to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Simply Health has an obligation to treat customers fairly. 
I know Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed, but I dont uphold their complaint. Thats because 
Im satisfied that Simply Health hasnt acted unreasonably by changing the hospital benefit 
when renewing the policy in 2022 in the circumstances of this case. Ill explain why.
Part 1 of the policy document (which sets out the terms effective from 1 July 2021) 
sets out a table of cover. And it reflects that if Mr or Mrs C were admitted to hospital, 
theyd receive a cash amount of £20 per day for each day/night (up to a maximum of 
20 days each policy year). Thats less the £95 per day they were entitled previously 
before the policy renewed. 
The insurance contract between Mr and Mrs C and Simplyhealth is renewable 
annually. That means each year when the policy is renewed a new contract is 
entered into between the parties. Insurers often change the terms and conditions of 
the insurance policy from time to time and these usually become effective on the next 
renewal date. The terms of the policy state that Simplyhealth can make changes to 
the policy as the renewal date. And that it will write to the policyholder at least 30 
days before the renewal date to tell them about the terms of the policy for the next 12 
months (including any changes to the policy rules, benefit levels or premiums).
Before the policy was due to be renewed in April 2022, and in line with the policy 
terms, Simplyhealth wrote to Mr C in February 2022 setting out important changes to 
the policy effective from when the policy next renewed and explaining why some of 
the changes were being made. Under the heading changes to your product for the 
year ahead its reflected: due to the rising costs of healthcare, weve reviewed our 
hospital cover benefit and made the tough decision to alter the entitlement. This may 
affect your policy. Please refer to you table of cover and terms and conditions for 
more information. I think that clearly and reasonably set out that changes would be 
made and to check the table of cover for the details of the change.
From documents provided by Simplyhealth, Im satisfied that its most likely 
information was sent to Mr and Mrs C about the change to the hospital benefit before 
the policy renewed. If Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with the change in benefit, they 
couldve chosen not renew the policy. Alternatively, they couldve opted to cancel the 
policy in line with the policy terms after it renewed.
I know Mr C says he needs the hospital benefit for taxi fares to travel to and from 
hospital. Hes unhappy that Simplyhealth has said the hospital benefit is for incidental 
costs of having to stay in hospital such as the cost of drinks for any visitors, the 
entertainment package and car parking. Im sorry that Mr C is upset by how 
Simplyhealth has positioned the purpose of the hospital benefit but I dont think what 
its said is unreasonable. He may have used the hospital benefit to pay for taxis but 
that benefit can be paid regardless of how he travelled to and from hospital.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman