DRN-3295640
The complaint
Mr F complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money he lost when he was the victim 
of a scam.
What happened
Mr F was called by someone claiming to be an investment broker and asked if he wanted to 
make money from bitcoin. Unfortunately, we now know the caller was a scammer.
Mr F was told he just needed to invest £250 to get started and was shown evidence of 
successful trades the caller had made. The caller then said that, if Mr F could invest more 
money, he guaranteed he would be able to pay off his mortgage in a year. And that, if Mr F 
borrowed money so he could invest more, he would be able to pay it back in two weeks.
Mr F then made a series of payments, firstly to a cryptocurrency wallet the caller helped him 
set up, and then transferred direct to bank account details the caller gave him. Ive set out 
the payments Mr F made below:
Date Amount Details
5 August 2020 £2.00 To cryptocurrency wallet
6 August 2020 £1,650.00 To cryptocurrency wallet
11 August 2020 £2,311.00 To cryptocurrency wallet
11 August 2020 £2,202.00 Bank transfer
14 August 2020 £7,650.00 Bank transfer
20 August 2020 £4,010.00 Bank transfer
After two weeks, Mr F asked if he could withdraw some of his money to pay back what he 
had borrowed. But he was told he couldnt, and the caller then stopped responding to his 
calls and texts. Mr F then realised it was a scam and contacted Monzo to report it.
Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code) but has explained it is committed to applying the principles set out in it. The 
CRM code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of authorised 
push payments scams, except in limited circumstances. Monzo investigated Mr Fs case but 
said one or more of the exceptions applied. It said Mr F had made the payments without a 
reasonable basis for believing they were legitimate, so he wasnt entitled to a refund under 
the CRM code. It did offer him £200 as compensation for delays in its response to his 
complaint. Mr F wasnt satisfied with Monzos response, so brought a complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked at Mr Fs complaint. They felt the CRM code didnt apply to 
the first three payments, as the cryptocurrency wallet they were sent to was in Mr Fs own 
name. They also felt Mr F had made the last three payments without a reasonable basis for 
believing they were legitimate. But they also felt Monzo had failed to meet its obligations 
under the CRM code by not providing Mr F with effective warnings when he made the last 
two payments. So they felt Monzo should refund 50% of the fifth and sixth payments, under 
the CRM code. They also felt Monzos offer of compensation for the delays in its response to 
Mr Fs complaint was fair. Monzo disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo 
should have reimbursed Mr F under the provisions of the CRM code and whether it ought to 
have done more to protect him from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The CRM code
As I mentioned above, Monzo has committed to follow the Lending Standards Board 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM code) although it isnt a signatory. The CRM 
code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push 
Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. And it is for the 
firm to establish that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care under one of the 
listed exceptions set out in the CRM code.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Does the CRM code apply to these payments?
Ive first considered whether the CRM code applies to all the payments Mr F made as a 
result of this scam.
The CRM code covers payments where a customer paid funds to another person for what 
they believed were legitimate purposes, but which were in fact fraudulent. But the first three 
payments Mr F made werent sent to another person, but to a cryptocurrency wallet in Mr Fs 
own name.I recognise that Mr F only set up the cryptocurrency wallet under the direction of the 
scammer and that the scammer also had access to the wallet. But I think the way the CRM 
code is written means that it doesnt apply to these first three payments.
The last three payments were all sent directly to bank account details Mr F was given by the 
scammer, and this account was not in Mr Fs name. So I think the CRM code does apply to 
last three payments and Ive gone on to consider whether Monzo should have refunded the 
money Mr F lost as a result of these payments, under the provisions of the CRM code.
Did Mr F have a reasonable basis for belief?
This was clearly a cruel scam and Im sympathetic towards Mr Fs position. But I need to 
consider not just whether Mr F believed what he was being told, but whether it was 
reasonable for him to do so.
Mr F says he was called by the scammer and asked if he wanted to make money from 
bitcoin, rather than their contact being the result of Mr F going out and looking for investment 
advice. And I think this should have caused Mr F some concern, as I think its unusual for a 
legitimate investment broker to be approaching potential clients in this way.
Mr F also says he was sent evidence of successful trades the scammer had made. But this 
evidence appears to just be screenshots of lists of completed trades, with no way for Mr F to 
confirm the scammer had made the trades themselves or that the trades were actually 
carried out. So I dont think this evidence should have been very convincing.
I also think what the scammer told Mr F about the returns on his investment was too good to 
be true. Mr F says he was told he could make enough to pay back anything hed borrowed 
within two weeks, which effectively means hed have doubled his money in that time. And he 
says he was told he could make enough to pay off his mortgage in a year, which would 
mean hed get back around ten times what hed invested after a year. I appreciate Mr F may 
not have invested previously, but I think a reasonable person would still find these returns 
unusually high  particularly over relatively short periods of time.
The scammer also doesnt appear to have given much of an explanation of exactly what kind 
of trading or investment was involved or why they were able to offer such significant returns. 
And Mr F doesnt appear to have asked for any evidence or done any checks into who the 
scammer was or who they worked for.
So I dont think Mr F had a reasonable basis for belief that the payments he was making 
were for genuine services or that the person he was paying was legitimate.
Did Monzo meet its obligations under the CRM code?
Even though I dont think Mr F had a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments, 
he may still be entitled to a refund of 50% of the money he lost if Monzo didnt meet its 
obligations under the CRM code  one of which is to provide effective warnings.
The CRM code says that, where firms identify APP scam risks, they should provide effective 
warnings to their customers. It sets out that an effective warning should enable a customer 
to understand what actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not 
doing so. And, as a minimum, the CRM code sets out that an effective warning should be 
understandable, clear, impactful, timely and specific.
The fourth payment Mr F made wasnt for a particularly large sum of money and didnt leave 
the balance of the account in a particularly unusual position. So I dont think Monzo was obliged to provide an effective warning in relation to this payment. But the fifth and sixth 
payments Mr F made were for much larger amounts, and were significantly larger than any 
other payments out of the account in the previous six months. So I think Monzo should have 
identified a scam risk and provided an effective warning for these fifth and sixth payments.
Monzos records show no warning was provided when Mr F made the fifth and sixth 
payments. But Monzo says that, as a warning was provided for the fourth payment, it has 
met its obligations under the CRM code.
As I said above, one of the requirements the CRM code sets out for effective warnings is 
that they be timely. And the fourth payment was made three days before the fifth payment 
and nine days before the sixth payment. So I dont agree the warning given for the fourth 
payment can be an effective warning for the fifth and sixth payments, or that Monzo has met 
its obligations to provide effective warnings as a result.
I also dont think the warning Mr F was shown for the fourth payment would have been 
effective if it had been shown for the fifth and sixth payments. The warning message Mr F 
was shown when making the fourth payment said:
Stop, dont pay. Its very likely this is a scam.
Remember:
Bank transfers arranged online or over social media are at a higher risk of fraud
Bank transfers arent protected in the same way as card payments
Pay by card if you can
You might not be able to get your money back if this does turn out to be a scam. Find a 
legitimate seller who lets you pay by card.
And after he clicked to continue with the payment, Mr F was then shown another warning, 
which said:
Are you sure?
Once you make a payment, its almost impossible for us to get the money back.
And while these warnings do explain the consequences of proceeding with the payment and 
give an example of steps Mr F could have taken to try to avoid the risk, they dont give any 
examples of what the scam might look or feel like. They dont explain possible warnings 
signs this could be a scam or how Mr F could identify whether it was a scam. And talking 
about a seller isnt relevant to the specific type of scam Mr F had fallen victim to.
So I dont think these warnings were specific enough to be effective in Mr Fs circumstances. 
And so I dont think Monzo has met its obligations under the CRM code in relation to the fifth 
and sixth payments Mr F made.
Overall then, I dont think Mr F had a reasonable basis for belief that any of the payments he 
was making were for genuine services or that the person he was paying was legitimate. But I 
think Monzo failed to meet its obligations under the CRM code in relation to the fifth and 
sixth payments. And so I think Monzo should refund 50% of the fifth and sixth payments, 
under the provisions of the CRM code.Should Monzo have done more to protect Mr F?
In addition to its responsibilities under the CRM code, when Mr F made this payment, Monzo 
should fairly and reasonably have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions 
or other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other 
things). And for the same reasons I think it should have given effective warnings, I think it 
should have identified that Mr F could be at risk of fraud as a result of the fifth and sixth 
payments.
And if Monzo had stepped in and asked further questions before processing the fifth and 
sixth payments, as I think it should have, I think its likely the scam would have been 
uncovered and Mr F wouldnt have been without his money. So I think Monzo should pay 
interest on the refund from the date the payments were made.
Delays
Monzo has offered Mr F £200 as compensation for the delays when it was initially looking 
into his complaint. And, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think this offer is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Monzo Bank Ltd to:
Refund Mr F 50% of the fifth and sixth payments he made as a result of the scam, for 
a total of £5,830
Pay 8% simple interest on this refund from the date of the payments until the date of 
settlement
Pay Mr F £200 compensation, if it has not already done so
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman