DRN-4179425
The complaint
Mr D has complained about QIC Europe Ltd. He isnt happy that it turned down a claim 
under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows -
Mr D made a claim under his home insurance policy after he lost his wedding ring. QIC 
initially declined the claim saying that it wasnt a specified item under the policy. When Mr D 
pointed out that the ring was actually specified under the policy it reconsidered the claim but 
said it hadnt been valued within the last three years which was a requirement of the policy. 
QIC declined the claim and as Mr D wasnt happy about this he complained to QIC and then 
this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr D but didnt uphold his complaint. He thought that 
the policy endorsement requiring a recent valuation of the ring was clear. And so, he didnt 
think QIC had done anything wrong in declining the claim.
As Mr D didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be partly upheld but I want to give both sides 
the opportunity to comment before finalising my decision. 
Although I can understand QICs position I think it has produced a harsh outcome in the 
particular circumstances of this case. I say this as it is clear that Mr D had possession of the 
ring before the claim  he had insured it with other insurers from the time he purchased the 
ring and has provided a picture of him wearing the ring recently. And it appears to only be 
worth slightly above the limit QIC has imposed (£2,000) for items of jewellery to be specified 
under the policy and so requiring a valuation.
As Mr D has highlighted it is possible to go on the jewellers website and gauge a value of 
what the ring is worth brand new if that is what is required so the actual valuation isnt too 
difficult to establish. And as Ive already outlined there doesnt seem to be any question that 
the ring was in Mr Ds possession and insured over a number of years, so Im satisfied the 
claim was genuine.
So, although I understand why QIC has turned down the claim and generally wants items 
like this valued and checked as per its endorsement. However, Id expect this to be made 
abundantly clear to the consumer when they took out the policy and I havent been provided 
with anything to show that this was made clear to Mr D. But either way I think the outcome in 
this particular case is unfair. As the endorsement outlines there is a little flexibility in whether 
a claim would be met or not.
The policy says If you make a claim for any watch or item of jewellery shown on the 
schedule with a replacement value of £2,000 or more you must provide a professional UK 
valuation from within the last three years. And goes on to say, We will not pay your claim, or 
the amount of the claim may be reduced, if you do not provide the proof we ask for.
I know QIC has given an example of when such a claim would be met (if it was valued just 
outside the three year deadline for example) but I dont think it would be fair to say this would 
be the only time a claim would be met. I agree with Mr D that the endorsement clearly says 
the amount of the claim may be reduced if he isnt able to provide the proof it has asked for. 
And as the value of the ring is around QICs proposed limit for this I think it would be fairer to 
pay the claim.
Given all of this, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case is for QIC to pay the claim up to the £2,000 limit it would pay out for without being 
specified under the policy. So, if the valuation of Mr Ds ring is more than £2,000 then QIC 
can limit its payment. And pay 8% simple interest for the time Mr D has been without the 
money.
Replies
Both sides responded to my provisional decision. Mr D accepted the position outlined while 
QIC didnt agree. 
QIC said ownership of the ring isnt in dispute in relation to Mr Ds claim which it accepted 
was genuine. And reiterated that the policy holder needs to know the value of the ring 
insured under the policy. Highlighting that high value items heightens the risk to the insurer 
which is why the endorsement is added and why the true value of the ring should be kept 
updated. 
It went on to say that another reason for a valuation to be gained every three years is to 
prevent situations like this. QIC says Subsequently, when a claim such as this one is 
declined, this approach then swings to focus on the lower value, in order to ensure cover. 
Therefore, a regular valuation would clear up any uncertainty regarding the value of the 
item. It said again that Mr D was asked a question about this and said the ring was worth 
£2,500 and said it was clear on the policy schedule that this was a requirement of the policy. 
And said it would welcome an approach that ensured consistency although it acknowledged 
it has some discretion in its decision making around cases like this as outlined above. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld. I know this will be 
a disappointment to QIC, but to do otherwise would produce an unduly harsh outcome in the 
particular circumstances of this case. 
As QIC is aware this Service judges every case on its merits and as QIC has highlighted 
there can be times when it doesnt follow a set approach in cases like this which seems 
reasonable. In this case it is accepted that Mr Ds claim is genuine and there isnt any doubt 
that he had the item before he made the claim. So the only aspect of this case up for consideration is the value of the ring and whether QIC has acted fairly in declining the claim 
as the value of it wasnt fully established within the last three years.
However, the ring seems to be only worth around the limit that QIC would expect a customer 
to flag under the policy. And there isnt any real issue in gaining a valuation for Mr Ds ring as 
it was brought from a well-known store and I understand it is still available now and I have 
looked at the website myself in looking to form a fair and reasonable conclusion to Mr Ds 
case. So, given this is QICs main sticking point and it has acknowledged that sometimes it 
steps outside of its own endorsement in order to act in a fair way I think it should pay the 
claim. I must highlight, as I did in my provisional decision, that I can understand QICs 
position (which is why I didnt deem it necessary to award any compensation in this case) 
but it has produced an unduly harsh outcome. 
I know QIC has highlighted that high value items heightens the risk to the insurer which is 
why the endorsement is added. But Ive looked at the valuations online and it is clear that the 
value of Mr Ds ring is roughly in line with the valuation placed so Im satisfied he has paid a 
premium in line with the heightened risk. 
Given all of this, I still think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular 
circumstances of this case is for QIC to pay the claim up to the £2,000 limit specified under 
the policy. I say this as the policy does say the amount of the claim may be reduced if Mr D 
isnt able to provide the proof QIC has asked for. So, if the valuation of Mr Ds ring is more 
than £2,000 then QIC can limit its payment. And it should pay 8% simple interest for the time 
Mr D has been without the money owed.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require QIC Europe Ltd 
to pay Mr Ds claim up to the £2,000 limit as outlined above. And pay 8% simple interest 
from the date of claim until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman