DRN-2632918
The complaint
Mr C complains that the car he obtained through a hire purchase agreement from BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Ltd (BMW Financial Services) was not of satisfactory quality.   
What happened
Mr C entered into a hire purchase agreement to buy a new BMW in November 2019. 
In January 2020, Mr C took the vehicle back to a dealership as an error
message had appeared. At this time the vehicle had driven around 700 miles. The issue was 
diagnosed as a fault with the petrol particulate filter sensor which was therefore replaced.
In February 2020, the issue came back, and the car was taken back to a dealership. The 
vehicle at this time had driven around 900 miles. The garage got in touch with BMW
as they couldnt diagnose the fault. Having had contact with BMW, the issue was
diagnosed as being with the petrol particulate filter, and it was suggested this may have 
been because Mr C wasnt driving enough miles. The vehicle was handed back to Mr C.
Mr C continued to suffer the same problems, so complained to BMW Financial Services. 
They responded on 23 March 2020, rejecting his complaint. They felt the issue was as a 
direct result of the low mileage being covered in the vehicle. It was their view that the vehicle 
was of satisfactory quality as the mileage being covered wasnt something they were liable 
for, and they had seen no evidence that Mr C had told the dealership he would be doing low 
mileage when obtaining the car. 
 
Unhappy with this response, Mr C brought his complaint to our service. Because of the error 
message and his concerns with the car, Mr C has not used the vehicle after February 2020, 
except for making sure the engine runs and the brakes dont seize. Mr C told us he had lost 
all faith in the vehicle as the engine doesnt feel smooth and full power isnt available on the
throttle. Hed therefore like to reject the vehicle and get something back for the monthly
repayments hes been paying.
The initial investigation here focused on the issue raised by BMW about low mileage having 
caused the problems, and whether this was the responsibility of BMW Financial Services. It 
concluded that Mr C was under informed and that BMW Financial Services were liable for 
this and should allow Mr C to reject the car and end the agreement. 
However, BMW Financial Services didnt agree with this. They felt that there was no 
evidence of Mr C informing the dealer about his expected low mileage and that for this type 
of vehicle it would be clear that low mileage could cause a problem. 
Mr C also disagreed with this view, as he felt that by the time it was issued, he had been 
making monthly payments for many months for a car which was off the road, and that he 
should receive some compensation for this. 
The case was then re-allocated here for a different investigator to look into it. Their view was 
that the car was of unsatisfactory quality. They felt there was evidence of problems with the 
petrol particulate filter, and a failed attempt to repair this problem, and this made the car of 
unsatisfactory quality. 
They felt that for this car, because it was a petrol engine, it should not need to cover a 
certain amount of mileage to avoid the filter being clogged, as might be the case in a diesel 
engine. They also referenced that there was no mention in the online manual for this model 
of any requirement to cover a certain mileage. 
Their view was that Mr C should be able to reject the car at no cost with nothing further to 
pay, have his deposit refunded, and to have a refund of payments from February 2020 as he 
had stopped using the vehicle from that point due to the issues. They also felt he should 
receive £150 for the trouble and upset caused. 
BMW Financial Services accepted that the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality but did not 
agree with the resolution proposed. They felt that the customer had usage of the vehicle for 
this period and it would not be being returned with zero miles, so they did not feel they 
should have to refund the monthly payments back to February 2020. They therefore asked 
for an Ombudsman to look at the case again. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have now accepted that the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality, I do not 
intend to go into all the details here. I will outline why I agree that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality, and move onto how to put things right for Mr C. 
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. BMW Financial Services as the supplier of the goods 
under this type of agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history.
BMW Financial Services supplied Mr C with a brand new vehicle. Therefore, I think its fair to 
say that a reasonable person would expect the level of quality to be higher than a second-
hand, more road-worn vehicle. And that it could be used  free from defects  for a 
considerable period of time.
Both sides now accept that there was an issue with the petrol particulate filter, which 
attempted repairs did not fix. I am satisfied that this fault with the car, as it was less 3 months 
old and had travelled only around 1000 miles, makes the car of unsatisfactory quality when it 
was supplied to Mr C. And as I mentioned above, BMW Financial Services have also agreed 
this now. This leaves the remaining point of dispute as the resolution required.    Mr C has told us that he hasnt used the car since part way through February 2020, when it 
was returned to him but again suffered from the same fault. He says he didnt feel safe 
driving it with the fault so stopped using the car. The car had travelled around 1000 miles at 
this point, and he has said that since then, he only occasionally starts it up and moves it a 
short distance before parking it up again, to ensure the car remains working. He has 
continued to make monthly payments during this period to BMW Financial Services, and 
also kept the car insured. 
Both parties have already agreed that Mr C can end the agreement and reject the car with 
nothing further to pay and should receive a refund of his £1000 deposit plus interest. On top 
of this, both parties agreed that a payment of £150 should be made for the trouble and upset 
caused to Mr C by the problems. I agree that these are fair actions for BMW Financial 
Services to take as part of the resolution. 
Mr C feels that he should also be reimbursed for the monthly payments he has made since 
the car has been off the road. BMW Financial services did not agree with this. They felt he 
had use of the car throughout, and that the car isnt being returned with zero miles on the 
clock, so they did not feel they should have to refund his monthly payments. 
I have considered the circumstances, and feel it is fair for Mr C to be refunded his monthly 
finance agreement payments, plus interest, from March 2020 onwards. This is the period 
when the car has been off the road. He has had to use another car as he lost faith in the 
safety of this vehicle and has provided evidence that the mileage is still only around 1,100 
miles. This confirms he hasnt been using the car other than occasional very short drives, to 
ensure the car continued to work and did not seize up from lack of use. 
I also confirmed to BMW Financial Services that I was considering finding that they should 
compensate Mr C for his insurance payments for the period the car has been off the road. 
He has had to insure another car to drive, due to this car not being of satisfactory quality. Mr 
C has paid to keep this car insured throughout, to fulfil his obligations while the contract has 
remained in place and his complaint has been ongoing. I am directing that the amount of 
these insurance payments, plus interest, should also be paid to Mr C by BMW Financial 
Services. 
From when the vehicle was off the road, his initial insurance policy had monthly payments of 
£42.00 per month due on the first day of each month from 1 March to 1 November 2020 
(inclusive), so 9 payments. He then renewed his insurance, and the second year policy had 
a first payment of £32.57 on 10 December, and then 11 payments due of £32.30 per month 
on the first of each month from 1 January 2021 onwards. Mr C has provided the evidence of 
these policies and costs, and that he is still paying the monthly payment.
   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited to:
- End the agreement with nothing further to pay.   
- Collect the car at no further cost to Mr C. 
- Refund Mr Cs £1000 deposit contribution. 
- Refund to Mr C all monthly finance agreement payments made from (and including) 
the March 2020 payment to the date of settlement. - Pay Mr C the amounts of the car insurance payments he has made for the vehicle, 
as detailed above, from (and including) the March 2020 payment to the date of 
settlement. 
- Pay 8% yearly simple interest on all the above amounts calculated from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. (If BMW Financial Services considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the interest part of 
my award, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate).
- Pay a further amount of £150 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr C by the 
problems with the car. 
- Remove any adverse information from Mr Cs credit file in relation to the agreement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman