DRN-3224942
The complaint
Mr K complains about the advice given by Better Retirement Group Ltd trading as FIDUCIA 
PROSPERITY (BRG) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational 
pension scheme to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was 
unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr K approached BRG in September 2018 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. 
BRG completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ks circumstances and objectives. 
BRG also carried out an assessment of Mr Ks attitude to risk, which it deemed to be highest 
medium  a score of seven on a scale of one to ten. But I can see in the suitability report Mr 
Ks attitude to risk is recorded as high medium risk - a score of six. Its unclear whether Mr 
Ks score was revised downwards or whether this is an error. Ill talk more about this later on.
On 21 September 2018 BRG advised Mr K to transfer his pension benefits into a SIPP and 
invest the proceeds in a bespoke portfolio with a third-party Discretionary Fund Manager 
(DFM.) The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were:
To provide flexibility of income throughout retirement.
Mr K had sufficient retirement income from his intended retirement age derived from 
variable sources including his state pension, income from his transferred pension 
scheme and continued earned income.
To generate a tax-free cash lump sum without the need to draw additional income to 
clear a business loan and to provide better overall financial security.
To provide lump sum death benefits for his family in both the short and long term.
Mr K accepted the recommendation and the transfer duly went ahead.
In September 2020 Mr K complained to BRG about the suitability of the transfer advice 
because given his circumstances he didnt think the transfer was in his best interests.
BRG didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. In summary it said the transfer advice was suitable. It 
said Mr K wanted to use the tax-free cash to pay off a loan saving him around £400 a month 
 the remainder increasing his savings. It said that given his objective, his assessed attitude 
to risk and the lifetime cashflow comparison, which showed that Mr Ks pension fund would 
provide an equivalent income beyond his life expectancy (assuming a growth rate of 5%) it 
recommended the transfer. 
It said that while it was clear its investment advice had gone wrong given the investment 
losses suffered and the DFM going into special administration, it said it was satisfied it acted 
in good faith.
Mr K referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and required 
BRG to pay compensation. In summary they said the transfer advice wasnt suitable 
because they didnt think the transfer was financially viable given the critical yield; they 
werent persuaded Mr Ks attitude to risk was truly high medium; they werent persuaded that 
Mr K wanted to control his pension given his lack of investment experience; they didnt think 
death benefits were important given Mr K was single with no dependants; and finally they 
said that there was insufficient consideration given to Mr K taking early retirement from his 
DB scheme which wouldve likely met his objective.
Despite BRG indicating that it intended to respond to the investigators assessment and us 
reminding it that it still had time to do so, BRG has said nothing in response. Because it is 
assumed that BRG disagrees with the investigators findings, the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator and my reasons are set out below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, BRG should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mrs Ks best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the 
evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests
Financial viability 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17 /9 as to
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers,
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case.
The closest discount rate to the time of this transfer which I'm able to refer to was published
for the period before 1 October 2017 and is 2.7% per year for two years to retirement. The
share returns that were used to compile this discount rate wouldnt have been significantly
different by the time of transfer and, if anything, the bond returns would have got lower. So, I
think it still gives an approximate guide to the upper end of potential future returns.
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
The critical yield required to match Mr Ks benefits at age 60 was 9.60% if he took a full 
pension  no figure was generated assuming a reduced pension with a tax-free cash 
withdrawal. I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount 
rate, Mr Ks recorded attitude to risk in the suitability report as a high medium  and also the 
term to retirement.
In my view there would be little point in Mr K giving up the guarantees available to him
through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside thescheme. But here, the critical yield was 9.6%. And even on the assumption that the critical 
yield figure would have been lower based on the more likely option of Mr K taking his full 
entitlement to tax-free cash and a reduced pension, the figure was still likely significantly 
higher than the regulators middle rate and higher than the upper projection rate  it was also 
several times higher than the discount rate. And while I have serious concerns about how 
BRG arrived at classifying Mr K as a highest medium investor given his apparent complete 
lack of any real investment experience, his age and the term to retirement (I think a more 
appropriate assessment would have been a score of four or five at best) even if I thought this 
was the level of risk Mr K was prepared to take with his pension, which for the avoidance of 
doubt I do not, I think it was clear he was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower 
overall value than his DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that 
attitude to risk.
Because the required sustained growth rate was significantly higher than the discount rate, I
think it is clear the transfer was not compatible with Mr Ks attitude to risk. To have come
close to achieving the level of growth required, in my view would have required Mr K to take
significant investment risk, which was greater than his recorded appetite and substantially 
higher risk than I think he was truly prepared to take. And even then I think its more likely 
than not that Mr K would have been worse off financially at retirement if he transferred out. I 
think the term to retirement was also a limiting factor here.
I can see that BRG argues that the critical yield isnt particularly relevant because Mr K didnt 
intend on purchasing an annuity. It also said it demonstrated that if the fund grew by 5% Mr 
K would be able to withdraw the same income as his DB scheme provided from age 60 to 
beyond his life expectancy. Ive considered this  but Im not persuaded by BRGs 
arguments. 
Firstly as I said above, there would be little point in Mr K giving up the guarantees available 
to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the
scheme while at the same time as being exposed to investment risk. And here BRGs 
income modeller does not in my view show that Mr K could reasonably take a sustained 
higher income than his DB scheme assuming a 5% growth rate  this appears to require an 
8% growth rate to avoid the risk of Mr K running out of money if he lived a long life. And this 
in my view was not a realistic rate of sustained growth taking into account what I consider 
was Mr Ks true attitude to risk, the discount rate and the regulators standard projection 
rates.
Secondly I dont think the importance of the critical yield figure should have been 
downplayed by BRG and the adviser, which I think is what happened here. The regulator 
required BRG to provide the rates of return required to replicate the benefits available to Mr 
K through his DB scheme. So, telling Mr K it wasnt really relevant to him undermined the 
analysis the regulator required it to undertake. And I think given the high critical yield figure 
in Mr Ks case, this should have acted as a clear sign that Mr K ought to retain his DB 
scheme and that transferring out was not likely to be in his best interests.
Overall, I think BRG ought to have told Mr K that it wasnt in his best interests to transfer out 
of the DB scheme because I think its clear that he would be worse off financially if he did so. 
And for this reason alone, I dont think the advice to transfer out was suitable. But I accept 
that financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice - there might be 
other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility  access to tax-free cash and income need
Mr Ks objective and the primary reason for the recommendation to transfer out of his DB scheme was to access his tax-free cash to clear debt  a business loan of around £20,000 
hed taken out around a year earlier  and to provide living support and comfort factor 
which I think the suitability report later clarified as increasing Mr Ks cash funds.
But I dont think this was a suitable reason to recommend the transfer. I say this because 
firstly Im not entirely persuaded that Mr K had a need to repay his business loan at this 
stage. Just because Mr K thought it was a good idea didnt mean that BRG had to execute 
what he thought he needed  it was BRGs role to determine what was in Mr Ks best 
interests. 
While Mr Ks monthly income and expenditure analysis recorded in the fact-find showed that 
he was likely spending up to his income  not an untypical consumer profile in my view - Im 
not persuaded this demonstrates Mr Ks loan payment wasnt manageable or that he was 
suffering financial pressure. I think its reasonable to assume that Mr Ks business loan 
lender wouldve carried out an affordability check and been satisfied with the result before 
granting the loan in 2017. Its not clear to me what had changed in the meantime to suggest 
it was no longer affordable  BRG didnt record in the advice paperwork that the reason for 
Mr K wanting to repay it was because of affordability issues or budgetary concerns. What is  
recorded is that Mr K intended to keep working and he didnt need any more income  so it 
appears he couldve continued to service the loan repayment from his earned income.
As such I think in acting in Mr Ks best interests the adviser should have explored the 
possibility of Mr K waiting to repay his loan. Given Mr K was only around two years from his 
DB schemes normal retirement age, it might have been possible for him to have serviced 
his loan from his income during this period before taking his full entitlement to his scheme 
benefits and using his tax-free cash at this point to repay the outstanding loan balance.
But even if I accept that repayment of the loan was a key objective and an immediate priority 
for Mr K, Im not persuaded Mr K needed to transfer out of his DB scheme to achieve it. I 
think there was a realistic alternative, which I cant see BRG properly considered  early 
retirement from his DB scheme. The scheme permitted early retirement from age 55. Taking 
his scheme benefits immediately wouldve given Mr K access to a lump sum, which he 
couldve used to repay his loan. And while Mr K might not have needed the income 
immediately, he was not accepting any risk in taking it.
I can see that the suitability report says that early access to Mr Ks scheme benefits would 
incur a severe reduction in his initial income... it goes on to say that this would make it 
financially unviable to retire early. Firstly Mr K had not indicated he wanted to retire early 
and stop working for example  so this appears at odds with whats recorded elsewhere in 
the advice paperwork. But that aside, I cant see that the adviser explored what the reduction 
in income would be  this appears to be an unsubstantiated statement. I accept there would 
likely be a reduction imposed by the scheme trustees. But Mr K would soon be 58, so only 
two years from his normal retirement age; the income although reduced would still be 
guaranteed and would escalate; any reduction imposed would be offset to a degree because 
he'd be receiving income for two years before it would ordinarily be paid; and despite the 
likely reduction, it still appears that Mr Ks overall target retirement income could still be 
achieved.
I think greater consideration and emphasis on this being a solution to meet Mr Ks objective 
should have been made by BRG before it went ahead and recommended he made an 
irreversible decision to transfer his DB scheme to a personal arrangement to help achieve 
things.
Turning to Mr Ks other objective of wanting the comfort factor of adding to his cash funds or 
savings by gaining access to an immediate lump sum  Im also not persuaded this was a 
compelling reason to transfer out of his DB scheme. No further explanation for Mr K wanting to add to his savings was given in the suitability report  in fact the advice paperwork records 
that Mr K was happy with the emergency funds he had. So its not clear to me why Mr K 
needed to do this.
More generally I can see that the recommendation to transfer was made because Mr K had 
demonstrated a potential need for flexible income. Mr K already had a degree of flexibility 
because he had an existing personal pension - so he could choose how to access these 
benefits in future. But I cant see any evidence that Mr K had a strong need for variable 
income throughout his retirement. Overall Im not persuaded this was a real objective  I 
think it was simply a consequence of transferring out to a different arrangement to meet Mr 
Ks need for access to cash.
Death benefits
I think the advice paperwork contains conflicting information about this objective and in my 
view paints a confused picture. For example death benefits was recorded as one of Mr Ks 
financial priorities on the fact-find. And the suitability report also records Mr Ks objective of 
wanting to leave a lump sum upon his death to his beneficiaries. But Mr K was single and he 
had no dependants. He also ticked a box on the fact-find to say because he had no 
dependants a lump sum on his death wasnt important.
I cant see why given Mr Ks circumstances the lump sum death benefits on offer through a 
personal pension would have been important to him  I dont think this was a true objective 
of Mr Ks. In any event, BRG should not have encouraged Mr K to prioritise the potential for 
higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Control and cutting ties with ex-employer
I think Mr Ks documented desire for ownership and control over his pension benefits was
overstated. Mr K was not an experienced investor and Ive seen nothing to show or suggest
that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his
own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr K  again it was simply a
consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
And I dont think severing links with his previous employer was an objective reason for 
recommending the transfer to Mr K. I consider it was for the adviser to distance themselves 
from any emotion or feelings Mr K might have had about his previous employer and base 
their recommendation on Mr Ks broader retirement objectives and circumstances at the time 
- albeit theres nothing to indicate that Mr K had any bad feeling towards his previous 
employer. I dont think severing ties with an employer was an appropriate reason to 
recommend a transfer.
Summary
I dont doubt that the immediate availability of tax-free cash, flexibility and control on offer 
through a personal pension arrangement would have sounded like attractive features to Mr 
K. But BRG wasnt there to just transact what Mr K might have thought he wanted. The 
advisers role was to really understand what Mr K needed and recommend what was in his 
best interests.Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr K was suitable. He was giving up a
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income to meet an objective that could likely have
been achieved by remaining in his existing scheme and taking his benefits early. And this 
wouldve been far preferable to Mr K in my view than giving up his only guaranteed 
retirement income. By transferring, Mr K was very likely to obtain lower retirement benefits 
and in my view, there were no compelling reasons which would justify a transfer and 
outweigh this.
So, I think BRG shouldve advised Mr K to remain in his DB scheme. 
I now need to consider whether, if things had happened as they should have, Mr K wouldve 
gone ahead anyway, against BRGs advice.
Having done so, I dont think Mr K wouldve insisted on transferring out of his DB scheme
and gone head in any event. I say this because Mr K was not in my view an experienced
investor who possessed the requisite knowledge, skill or confidence to take an investment 
decision to go against the advice he was given. So I think he relied solely on the advice he 
was given. At the time this pension was the primary source of Mr Ks guaranteed future 
retirement provision. So, if BRG had provided him with clear advice against transferring out 
of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt suitable for him, and that his objective could 
reasonably be met by taking benefits early from his DB scheme and not risk his guaranteed 
pension to do so, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. I think Mr K wouldve 
accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think BRG should compensate Mr K for the unsuitable advice, using
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
DFMs responsibility for the loss
BRG has made representations that the DFM caused some of Mr Ks loss. Its clear 
something has gone wrong and the DFM is now in special administration. So, Ive 
considered whether I should apportion only part of the responsibility for compensating the 
loss to BRG. 
But in the circumstances, I think it is fair to make an award for the whole loss against BRG. 
BRG should not have recommended Mr K transfer out of his DB scheme. And it was only as 
a result of BRGs involvement that Mr K transferred the funds held in his DB scheme. BRGs 
role was pivotal, since the eventual investments were fully reliant on the funds being 
transferred first. If that hadnt happened, Mr K couldnt have invested as he did. So, in my 
view, the entirety of Mr Ks loss stems from BRGs unsuitable advice to transfer away from 
his DB scheme. For this reason, I think holding BRG responsible for the whole of the loss 
represents fair compensation in this case.
Im aware Mr K may be able to make a claim about the DFM to the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS). As a scheme of last resort, its possible the FSCS wont 
pay out if a third party could also be held liable. This means requiring BRG to pay only part 
of the losses could risk leaving Mr K out of pocket. 
But I think its important to point out that Im not saying BRG is wholly responsible for the 
losses simply because the DFM are now in liquidation.
My starting point as to causation is that BRG gave unsuitable advice and it is responsible for 
the losses Mr K suffered in transferring his existing pension to the SIPP and investing as he 
did. That isnt, to my mind, wrong in law or irrational, but reflects the facts of the case and my 
view of the fair and reasonable position. With this in mind  and recognising also that Mr K 
wouldnt have lost out at all but for BRGs failings and that BRG benefitted financially from advising on this transaction  I think holding BRG responsible for the whole of the loss 
represents fair compensation in this case.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £300 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr K. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
BRG  thats the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and 
practical impact this matter had on Mr K. Taking everything into account, including
that I consider Mr K is now at the age when his retirement provision is of greater importance 
to him, I think the unsuitable advice has caused him distress. So I think an award of £300 is 
fair in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for BRG to put Mr K, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for BRGs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr K would have 
most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
BRG must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
Mr K couldve taken his DB scheme benefits without reduction at age 60. So, compensation 
should be based on Mr K taking benefits at his schemes normal retirement age of 60.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ks acceptance of the decision.
BRG may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ks 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ks SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ks pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr K as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr K within 90 days of the date BRG receives notification of 
her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes BRG to pay Mr K.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Better Retirement 
Group Ltd trading as FIDUCIA PROSPERITY to pay Mr K the compensation amount as set 
out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Better Retirement Group Ltd trading as FIDUCIA PROSPERITY should also pay Mr K £300 
to reflect the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Better Retirement Group Ltd trading as FIDUCIA PROSPERITY to pay Mr K any interest on 
that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only Better Retirement 
Group Ltd trading as FIDUCIA PROSPERITY to pay Mr K any interest as set out above on 
the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Better Retirement Group Ltd trading as FIDUCIA PROSPERITY pays Mr K the balance. I 
would additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be 
paid to Mr K.
If Mr K accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Better Retirement 
Group Ltd trading as FIDUCIA PROSPERITY 
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr K can accept my
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr K may want to consider getting
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman