DRN-4235966
The complaint
Miss C complains about the behaviour of Prestige Asset Finance Limited (Prestige) in 
relation to loans she took out with it.
What happened
I set out below Miss Cs version of events and also Prestiges version of the same events.
Miss Cs version of events
In July 2019 Miss C was in need of an urgent loan. Miss C had been a loyal customer of 
Prestige having taken out loans with it before, therefore she went to Prestige to see what 
finance it could provide if she agreed to pledge certain goods belonging to her as security for 
the loan. 
The total amount Prestige was willing to advance was £15,000. But it needed time to 
evaluate her goods and Miss C explains she needed £2,000 that very day. Therefore she 
agreed with Prestige that it would give her one loan for £15,000. However, it was also 
agreed that the payment would be staggered in that shed get £2,000 that day and £13,000 
later. 
Miss C tells us she was therefore very surprised to find out, at a later date, that in fact she 
had signed up for two loans, one for £2,000 (Ill call this Loan 1) and one for £13,000 (Ill 
call this Loan 2). Miss C indicates she was therefore misled by Prestige, she also suggests 
it took advantage of her at a difficult time. Both loans were ultimately paid off by Miss C.
In February 2020 Miss C again wanted a loan and as before she was willing to pledge 
certain goods she owned as security for the new loan. This time the loan amount was 
£5,000. The loan was due to expire in September 2020 (Ill call this Loan 3). 
However between February 2020 and September 2020 Miss C experienced a series of 
unfortunate and unexpected events. First the Covid-19 pandemic lockdown occurred which 
impacted badly on her business and consequently on her income. Then her mental health 
became impaired due to stress. Further, one of Miss Cs close family members died 
unexpectedly and she was grieving. Miss C had to pay for the funeral of her family member 
by herself. Therefore Miss C was not able to pay off Loan 3 in September 2020. 
Miss C told Prestige all about the changes in her personal circumstances. Miss C had 
expected forbearance and understanding from Prestige. In particular, she wanted it to 
extend the loan expiry date and stop applying interest to Loan 3. But instead without her 
knowledge or consent it renewed Loan 3 for a further seven month term.
Thereafter Prestige continually contacted her, to let her know it would sell her goods if she 
was unable to pay off Loan 3 on the expiry date which kept on changing. 
Whilst all of this was going on Prestige kept on adding interest to Loan 3 which Miss C 
believes was not permitted under the Covid regulations imposed by Prestiges regulator the 
Financial Conduct Authority (the guidance) (Ill talk about the guidance in the what Ive 
decided and why section below). However, Ill note here there was initial guidance issued in 
April 2020 and then subsequent updates were issued after this, but I when I refer to the 
guidance I mean all of the guidance collectively.
Also Miss C found the tone, content and frequency of the communications from Prestige to 
be inappropriate and designed to cause her stress. She indicates that it is her belief that 
Prestige piled pressure on her so that it could stop her redeeming her loan so that ultimately 
it would be able to sell her goods.
Prestiges version of events
Prestige responded by explaining its business model. It grants loans with a seven month 
term secured against the borrowers goods, monthly interest also accrues. When the 
agreement expires the borrower has two choices; they can either pay the interest due at the 
expiry date and renew the contract for a further seven months. Or the borrower can redeem 
the contract i.e. collect their goods. To do this they need to pay back the original amount 
borrowed and the interest due as at the expiry date. Therefore there is only one instalment 
payment due under the loan, but interest runs for the entire term of the loan until it is 
redeemed.
As to Loan 3 this had been renewed initially for a further seven months at Miss Cs request. 
Thereafter it renewed the loan eight further times also at Miss Cs request.  Prior to the 
expiry date it sends a letter to the borrower to let them know the expiry is coming up. Just 
before or just after each new expiry date Miss C would contact it asking for a renewal. This 
had been her usual pattern of behaviour with previous loans she had taken out with it, 
including Loans 1 and 2. Therefore it did not find this behaviour unusual, nor did it think it 
indicated that her financial affairs had taken a turn for the worse or that shed become a 
vulnerable consumer.
Prestige took into account the guidance and what Miss C told it about her circumstances 
when it granted these renewals. The final renewal was due to expire on 31 December 2021. 
Prestige advised Miss C on three separate occasions (10 November 2021, 21 December 
2021 and 24 December 2021) that no further extension to repay would be granted beyond 
31 December 2021. 
After it notified Miss C on 10 November 2021 Prestige began to receive more and more 
emails from Miss C sometimes up to five per day. The volume and content of the emails led 
it to believe that Miss C was now experiencing such distress and indebtedness that it 
reinforced Prestiges opinion that it was no longer in Miss Cs best interests to continue to 
renew the loan beyond 31 December 2021. As the loan was not redeemed and it did not 
consider it appropriate to renew again Prestige arranged to sell Miss Cs goods.
Prestiges stance is that it behaved appropriately at all times, and it is not in its best interests 
to sell a borrowers goods. It also strongly objected to Miss Cs suggestion that it acted in 
bad faith. For all of these reasons it declined to uphold Miss Cs complaint.
What happened once Miss Cs complaint was with us
Dissatisfied with Prestiges response, Miss C complained to our service.
Once Miss Cs complaint was with us we told Prestige that Miss C had told us she had been 
misled by it about Loan 1 and Loan 2 and that it took advantage of her. 
In response, Prestige told us, Miss C had been fully aware that she had entered into Loan 1 
and Loan 2. To support its stance Prestige pointed out that Miss C had signed separate 
agreements for each loan. Plus it had taken different security for each loan. Moreover, the 
terms and conditions of each of the loans were clearly set out in the loan agreements. 
In addition, Prestige indicated that it was significant that Miss C had redeemed each loan 
and had not complained about any of this at the time. Rather, she only complained when she 
brought her complaint to us and raised it as a new matter. When Miss C complained to it she 
just complained about Loan 3. Nonetheless it was willing for us to look at these limited new 
points about Loan 1 and Loan 2 as part of this complaint.One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She did not recommend that Miss 
Cs complaint ought to be upheld.
Prestige accepted our investigators recommendation, Miss C did not. In short, Miss C 
repeated her previous stance, expressed deep disappointment with our investigators 
recommendation and asked that an ombudsman review her complaint.
I reviewed Miss Cs complaint, and having considered the available evidence, I was minded 
to uphold Miss Cs complaint in part. That being the case, I thought it was fair to let the 
parties see my provisional findings and make further submissions (if they wanted to) before I 
made my final decision. Therefore, I issued a provisional decision and Ive set out below 
what I decided provisionally - and why. This forms part of my final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
New issues which I cant deal with in this complaint
Since the complaint has been with us Miss C has now also raised questions about the 
renewal of Loans 1 and 2 and a payment of £10,000 that she made towards all three loans 
which she says was misapplied. 
These appear to be new matters and have not been considered by Prestige in its final 
response to Miss C or investigated within this complaint. It follows that I am unable to look at 
these matters in this decision.
Loans 1 and 2
Miss C complains that she was unaware that she took out two loans she thought shed only 
entered into one loan for £15,000. It is not clear what difference it makes that it was two 
loans instead of one, for example Miss C has not been able to demonstrate that this 
arrangement disadvantaged her. Rather it seems she got the loan amounts she wanted 
using the security she had agreed to supply, albeit this was achieved via two loans as 
opposed to one.
In any event, Miss C had to sign both loan agreements. I think it is reasonable to assume, as 
a starting point, that when a person reads and signs an agreement  they understand the 
terms of the agreement and they are agreeing to be bound by them. 
I note also that Miss C only complained about the two loans when her complaint came to us.  
Had she not known of the existence of the two loans she would, on balance, I think have 
complained much earlier than this.
Therefore, for all of these individual reasons, it seems unlikely to me that the two loans were 
taken out without her knowledge or consent. It follows I dont uphold this part of Miss Cs 
complaint and I have no proper basis to tell Prestige it must do anything more in relation to 
this part of her complaint.
Loan 3The FCA introduced the guidance on 24 April 2020. This guidance, amongst other things, 
built on Principle 6 ('A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly'), and Principle 7 (A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading). It set out the FCAs expectations for firms to provide coronavirus related 
support for customers who were experiencing or reasonably expected to experience 
temporary payment difficulties solely due to coronavirus.  When implementing the guidance, 
the FCA pointed out, firms should take account of the particular needs of their vulnerable 
customers. Meaning that potentially firms would have to take extra care in relation to these 
customers.
A vulnerable consumer is someone who, due to their personal circumstances, is especially 
susceptible to harm, particularly when a firm is not acting with appropriate levels of care. It 
should be noted that being bereaved and/or experiencing temporary mental health 
difficulties, as was the case here, can both be a potential vulnerability.
The FCA expects firms to provide their customers with a level of care that is appropriate 
given the characteristics of the customers themselves. Therefore the level of care that is 
appropriate for vulnerable consumers may be different from that for others and firms should 
take particular care to ensure they are treated fairly. Moreover, firms should ensure they 
follow the relevant guides from the regulator on dealing with vulnerable consumers. The 
FCAs guides are a benchmark for the those providing consumer credit to consumers who 
may have vulnerabilities.
I find it likely that Miss C was a vulnerable consumer by reason of her mental health and her 
bereavement from September 2020. I am also satisfied that Miss C told Prestige by 
September 2020 about the circumstances that made her a vulnerable consumer, and it 
ought reasonably therefore have treated her as a vulnerable consumer. That means It 
should have taken account of the particular needs of Miss C as a vulnerable consumer when 
applying the guidance. Moreover, it should also have treated her as a vulnerable consumer 
even when the guidance no longer applied.
The guidance applied for part of the time that Loan 3 was live. And it seems her financial 
circumstances were impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. Therefore I would have expected 
Prestige to have followed the guidance. However, Miss C seems to think the guidance said 
that Loan 3 should have been put on hold and interest suspended until such time as she was 
able to make payment, no matter how long that took. That is not what the guidance said. 
When Loan 3 initially was due to come to an end the guidance that applied was the guidance 
issued in July 2020, it provided:
Where a customer who has not yet had a payment deferral is experiencing or reasonably 
expects to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of circumstances relating to 
coronavirus, and wishes to receive a full payment deferral, a firm should grant the customer 
a payment deferral for 3 months worth of payment unless the firm determines (acting 
reasonably) that it is obviously not in the customers interests to do so. 
Where a customer is granted a payment deferral on a pawnbroking agreement, the firm 
should implement this by extending the redemption period (irrespective of when the 
redemption period is due to end) for the period of the payment deferral or, if the redemption 
period has already ended, agree not to give notice of intention to sell an item of pawn for that 
period. If notice of intention to sell has been given, the firm should suspend the sale for the 
period of the payment deferral. References to payment deferral in this guidance should, 
where appropriate, be read accordingly. 
In other words, Prestige only had to extend Miss Cs redemption period for three months, 
instead it went further than it had to do and gave Miss C an initial further seven months. By 
the time that seven months was up, updated guidance was in force that potentially possibly 
gave Miss C the right to a further three month extension of the redemption period. But again, in any event Prestige went well beyond this and extended the redemption period a further 
eight times until December 2021.
Miss C is upset that Prestige did not waive interest during the periods where the redemption 
period was extended and the guidance applied, but the guidance did not oblige Prestige to 
waive the interest. Therefore, Ive no proper basis for saying that Prestige acted incorrectly 
in continuing to apply interest during the first redemption period extension.
Further, when I take account of Miss Cs vulnerable status I dont agree that Prestige did not 
do enough during the time the guidance applied. She indicates that she was struggling with 
her mental health and with her bereavement and what she needed at that point, as a 
vulnerable consumer, was temporary breathing space and sensitive communication and 
from what Ive seen she got both from Prestige at this stage. In other words nothing Ive 
seen shows that it treated her inappropriately at this point.
However, once the guidance no longer applied and Miss C continued to experience financial 
difficulties, Prestige was obliged to consider the normal forbearance provisions that a 
regulated business such as Prestige is obliged to think about when a consumer tells it that 
they are experiencing financial difficulties.
Miss C has suggested that Prestige acted improperly without treating her with appropriate 
forbearance, with the intention of ultimately taking ownership of the goods shed pledged. 
She also suggests that its communications put undue pressure on her. Ive looked carefully 
at the communications between them, and I think her characterisation of their 
communications and Prestiges behaviour cannot be substantiated. Rather it seems to me 
that Prestige contacted her when appropriate. And it was aware that her goods were 
important to her and kept this at the forefront of its thinking when dealing with her. So much 
so that I think it went too far, albeit with good intentions. I say this because it appears from 
those communications that it was obvious that Miss C had little realistic prospect of 
recovering the goods shed pledged and that there was significant equity in those goods that 
was depleted due to the successive redemptions.
I also take account of the fact that Miss C was vulnerable, and that Prestige knew this. or 
ought to have known. Miss C did, as Prestige indicates make contact with it before or just 
after expiry dates asking for more time, sometimes using emotive language but crucially she 
gave no indication of how she might pay off the loan. And I think bearing her vulnerability in 
mind, Prestige might reasonably have asked more questions about how the loan was 
ultimately going to be paid off because in the end Miss C could not pay off the loan, but she 
was so focused on safeguarding her goods she did not appear to recognise the 
inappropriateness of continuing to push back the redemption date. 
I take on board that making a decision about where Prestige ought to have drawn the line is 
not a science. But I think it should have been obvious to Prestige by 5 July 2021 that Miss C 
had little or no prospect of being able to pay off the loan and was so vulnerable that the 
appropriate course of action would be to sell the pledge. I therefore find it fair and 
reasonable that Prestige refund all interest that Miss C incurred from 5 July 2021 onwards.
I recognise neither party is likely to find my decision fair, Miss C because her position is that 
her pledge should never have been called in and Prestige because from its perspective it 
worked very hard to help Miss C retain the pledge and it explained clearly what it intended to 
do at every stage. However, I think Prestige did not act in Miss Cs best interests in 
extending the redemption period as often as it did. In other words I dont think it 
demonstrated appropriate forbearance. Rather I think its approach, after a certain point, 
made Miss Cs situation worse. 
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I currently intend to issue a final decision that Prestige Asset 
Finance Limited must refund all interest it charged Miss C from 5 July 2021 onwards.It must pay the total compensation within 28 days of the date on which Miss C accepts my 
final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the 
date of the final decision until the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple per year.
If it considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from that interest, it must send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment so that Miss C can reclaim the tax if she is able to.
Miss C should refer back to Prestige if she is unsure of the approach it has taken and both 
parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax 
treatment of this portion of the compensation. 
Both Miss C and Prestige chose to respond to my provisional decision, Ive summarised their 
respective responses below.
Miss C told us shed been ill and asked for more time therefore to respond to my provisional 
decision. Miss C was given more time to respond.
In her response, Miss C repeated her previous stance. Moreover, Miss C urged me to look at 
the new matters as part of this complaint. In addition, Miss C also told us that shed 
borrowed from friends and family to make her repayments to Prestige. She has not been 
able to fully pay back these informal loans, this in turn has caused her further distress. Miss 
C also sent us information she had already sent to us and some new information about the 
discussions shed had with Prestige about renewing and redeeming Loans 1, 2 and 3. Miss 
C told us, that from her perspective, Prestige had bullied her.
In its response Prestige also repeated its previous stance. In addition, Prestige made it clear 
that it objected to some of the things Miss C had told us about her complaint, it said what 
shed said in these instances was factually incorrect. It particular, it pointed out that:
With regards to Loans 1 and 2 it could never have staggered the payments to Miss C as she 
suggested as its systems and processes did not allow it to operate like that. Rather, Miss C 
had needed money urgently on the very day she applied for Loan 1. Miss C wanted to 
pledge several items. However it could only assess some of the items on that day, it needed 
more time to assess the remainder of the items before it could offer her loan secured on 
them. Therefore it had to do two loans. It gave her Loan 1 secured against the items it could 
assess on the day, in order that Miss C could get money immediately. And it gave Miss C 
Loan 2 once it had had a chance to assess the remaining items.
It pointed out that it was obliged to let a consumer know when a loan was coming up to the 
expiry date and that is all that it had done. In any event, it did not agree its communications 
with Miss C were inappropriate in tone or content. Neither did it agree that it had engaged in 
behaviour which was designed to force Miss C to allow it to sell her items.
Moreover, in its opinion Miss Cs communications with it had led it to believe the reason 
shed been unable to redeem Loan 3 was because she was overseas. It only became aware 
in September 2021 that Miss C might be vulnerable and because it thought she was 
vulnerable it felt obliged to renew Loan 3 at this point. It underlined that Miss C had 
threatened suicide at this point, and therefore [it] granted one last extension to give [an] 
opportunity for Miss Cs mental state to calm.
Prestige added if you decide not to [up]hold the original judgment [i.e. our investigators 
recommendation to reject the complaint] it then calls into question the whole pawnbroking 
industry as well as the standard contracts issued, and guidelines given to us by the FCA in 
respect of treating customers fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
I thank Miss C and Prestige for their respective detailed responses to my provisional 
decision. It has been particularly helpful that each of the parties took the time to set out their 
views on the reasoning and the redress which I set out in my provisional decision, so that I 
have been able to gain a fuller understanding of their respective positions and concerns. On 
another note, I regret to hear about Miss Cs recent illnesses, and I wish her a swift recovery.
Ive reviewed the file again and revisited my provisional decision and thought about the 
responses Ive received.
New issues which I cant deal with in this complaint
I recognise that Miss C wants me to deal with the new issues. But I have no power to do this. 
The reason for this, as I have already explained, is because these appear to be new matters. 
Miss C has not demonstrated that she raised these matters when she complained to 
Prestige. Therefore because these new matters were not raised originally by Miss C they 
have not been considered by Prestige in its final response to Miss C or investigated within 
this complaint. It follows that I am unable to look at these matters in this decision.
Loans 1 and 2
The new information that Miss C has sent in about her communications with Prestige only 
underlines that she knew about these two loans. In those communications she asks Prestige 
for the loan balances, she talks about what she is trying to do to pay off these loans, she 
thanks it for its help. Nowhere in these communications, which are detailed and span many 
months, does she express surprise about the existence of two loans or say she never 
agreed to this. I would have expected her to have mentioned these points in this 
correspondence if she did not agree to Loans 1 and 2. Therefore this information does not 
persuade me that Miss C did not consent to these loans.
Moreover, I have no reason to doubt Prestige when it says it could never have staggered the 
payments to Miss C in the way she describes because it just is not set up to do that. This 
further strengthens the finding I made about this point in my provisional decision. Namely, 
that on balance Miss C did consent to these loans. 
In addition, I am satisfied that Miss C did sign the separate agreements for Loans 1 and 2. I 
would not have expected her to sign two loan agreements if she thought she only had one 
loan. For this reason too Im satisfied on balance that Miss C did consent to these loans.
Loan 3
Prestiges response indicates it only ought reasonably to have been aware that Miss C was 
a vulnerable consumer in September 2021. I disagree. I say this because the information 
Ive seen demonstrates that Miss C told it about her mental health and how it was impairing 
her judgement and about her bereavement much earlier than this that is in September 2020. 
That said, nothing Ive received in response to my provisional decision, suggests that 
Prestige ought to have done more for Miss C taking into account of her vulnerability and the 
guidance and her financial difficulties before 5 July 2021. Indeed Prestige went further than it 
had to do when I take account of the guidance, even when I take on board that Prestige had 
to take particular care with Miss C as she was vulnerable, and it ought to have known this.As I have mentioned before the communications between Miss C and Prestige during the life 
of Loan 3 were detailed. There was a general pattern to this communication, namely Miss C 
would make promises to repay the loan close to the expiry date or having just missed it. 
Shed not really explain why shed not paid the loan off on the expiry date instead she would 
express the sincere hope that she could pay off the loan in future, but never explained how 
shed do this. 
The fact is that Miss C had to borrow from friends and family, to pay off the previous 
borrowing with Prestige. And the fact that Miss C has not yet been able to pay back those 
creditors in full underlines that she had no realistic and appropriate plan for repaying Loan 3. 
Rather, she continually put off the day of reckoning by asking to put back the redemption 
date, often using very emotional language. The fact that Miss C said she was overseas is 
not an explanation for why she missed expiry date after expiry date. 
All of this indicates to me that on balance shed no plan or means to pay off Loan 3 and that 
Prestige ought reasonably to have recognised this and questioned her further. I think on 
balance this would have revealed what was going on.
Therefore for these reasons and those I set out in my provisional decision, I think by 5 July 
2021 Prestige ought to have realised that Miss C just had no realistic prospect of being able 
to pay off Loan 3 and it should have called in the pledge.
I can well understand why Prestige became concerned when Miss C threatened suicide. I 
can also understand its motivations in wanting to keep Miss C calm. But nonetheless for the 
reasons Ive outlined I think it should have acted sooner than it did.
Miss C has used strong language to describe Prestiges behaviour towards her. I note at the 
time though she felt very differently. For example Miss C writes to Prestige and says, I love 
working with your company as I have been with you and the kindness you have shown 
towards me during this difficult time. Thanks for your support. Another time she says to it I 
have been a family member in Prestige not a client. All of this suggests to me that far from 
behaving inappropriately towards Miss C, Prestige behaved courteously and with 
understanding during a very tough time for her. Moreover nothing Ive seen suggests that 
Prestige wanted to force Miss C into a corner so it could sell her items, quite the opposite.
The underlying premise of pawnbroking contracts is that a contract will be renewed only 
where there is a realistic prospect of the consumer being able to redeem the contract on the 
new expiry date. Otherwise all that will be achieved is that any equity in the pledge will be 
unnecessarily and avoidably depleted. That principle is echoed in the FCA guidelines that 
apply to Pawnbrokers. Therefore for me to say that Loan 3 should not have been renewed 
from 5 July 2021 because, amongst other things, Miss C had no realistic prospect of 
redeeming the pledge, is within the spirit and letter of that premise. And it is in line with 
relevant guidelines.  I know that Prestige says otherwise, but I dont agree with it.
Ive not been persuaded by the responses to my provisional decision. It follows Ive reached 
the same conclusions for the reasons set out in my provisional decision (which forms part of 
this final decision) and also for the additional reasons Ive set out in this final decision.
I just want to take this chance to clear up any misunderstanding about what Miss C was 
entitled to under the guidance. The guidance talks about six months in total of payment 
deferrals. Prestige granted Miss C far in excess of this and nothing in that guidance would 
have entitled Miss C to more than six months of payment deferrals in total.
My final decision
My final decision is that Prestige Asset Finance Limited must refund all interest it charged 
Miss C from 5 July 2021 onwards.It must pay the total compensation within 28 days of the date on which Miss C accepts my 
final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the 
date of the final decision until the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple per year.
If it considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from that interest, it must send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment so that Miss C can reclaim the tax if she is able to.
Miss C should refer back to Prestige if she is unsure of the approach it has taken and both 
parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax 
treatment of this portion of the compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman