DRN-3112114
complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
2003. Miss L says the PPI was mis-sold. AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken responsibility 
for the sale. So to keep things simple Ill refer below to AXA, rather than any other business.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Miss Ls 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here. 
Miss L has told us shed been with her employer for two years and was entitled to less than 
six but at least three months full sick pay and didnt have anything else, like savings, to pay 
her card with if she couldnt work. From what shes told us I think it likely she wouldve also 
received statutory pay for redundancy.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. 
Miss Ls representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated complaint points and arguments theyd previously made.  
Miss L also requested a decision.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ls. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Miss Ls 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Miss L has said the PPI was just included with her card. But her card application form 
had a separate space for her to sign if she wanted the cover. She signed this, separately 
from signing for the card itself  and nothing on the form said she had to take the PPI or 
sign the space for it if she didnt want it. With all this in mind, I think it likely AXA made it 
clear Miss L didnt have to take the PPI and she chose to take it.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Miss L - so it didnt have to check the PPI was right or 
suitable for her. But it did have to give her enough clear and timely information so she 
could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found she chose to take it, and I dont think it likely she wouldve 
taken it without at least a broad understanding of what it covered - so it looks to me like 
she wanted this type of cover. She couldnt have claimed if her existing health issue kept 
her off work, but shed had it for years and she hasnt told us it ever kept her off work. So 
what I have doesnt make me think better information about this wouldve changed her 
decision to take the cover. And Miss L hasnt told us of having any other health issues 
the policy mightve made it hard for her to claim for. Also, nothing about her occupation 
or employment wouldve made it hard for her to claim. 
With all this in mind, I dont think the cover was fundamentally wrong for Miss L or too 
dissimilar to what its likely she thought she was buying from the information she was 
likely given. Bearing in mind her work benefits and lack of other means, it also seems 
like the benefit wouldve been useful for her if something went wrong. The application 
gave Miss L some information about the policy cost and, although it wasnt the whole 
story, taking into account all Ive said above I dont think Miss L wouldve declined the 
cover had AXA done more.
While the policy contained limitations or exclusions on claims relating to back and mental 
health conditions, in light of Miss Ls circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for her  and I think 
she wouldve still thought she had some good reasons to take it.
Overall, I consider Miss L wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what its 
likely she thought she was getting and given her circumstances I think it couldve provided a 
useful benefit at what couldve been a difficult time if shed lost her job or was too sick to 
work in the circumstances the policy covered. And, with all that in mind, I think she wouldve 
taken it in any event.
Miss Ls representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and that the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact on the chances of 
making a claim.
Miss Ls representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Ls individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Ls particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. This means AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my final decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss L to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman