DRN-1861769
The complaint
Mr H complains that the car he acquired under a conditional sale agreement wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. He has told Santander Consumer (UK) Plc he wants to reject the car.
What happened
Mr H entered into a conditional sale agreement in April 2019 to acquire a new car. He says 
that he experienced issues shortly after acquiring the car including problems with the car not 
accelerating as it should and cutting out and the parking sensors not working properly. 
On 30 July 2019, Mr H contacted the dealer. The car was booked in for investigation on 
19 August but unfortunately due to a health issue Mr H had to cancel this appointment and 
the appointment was rescheduled for 17 October 2019. At this time the dealer couldnt find 
any faults. 
Mr H provided a video to the dealer of the issue with parking sensors. He chased the dealer 
regarding the issues raised and then raised his concerns with Santander at end October 
2019. 
Santander arranged for an independent inspection to take place. This happened on 28 
November 2019. The inspection confirmed faults with the car, specifically issues with the 
acceleration and parking sensors but said these issues wouldnt have been present at the 
point of supply. Santander didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H continued to try to resolve his complaint but as this didnt happen he raised his 
complaint with this service in February 2020.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She said Mr H had bought a new car and raised 
issues shortly after. She didnt think these issues should have been present so soon and 
said the dealer had had an opportunity to repair in October 2019. She recommended that 
Mr H be allowed to reject the car and receive compensation, including a refund of payments 
for the time after Mr H stopped using the car.
After initially saying that further action wouldnt be taken, Santander then said that the option 
of a repair should have been offered in November 2019. Santander said that the dealer 
hadnt been able to carry out repairs as no faults had been found when it investigated the car 
and because of this it said the dealer should be given the opportunity to repair the car. It also 
offered to pay Mr H £200 for initially providing the wrong outcome to him and to refund the 
monthly instalments along with 8% interest for the time that Mr H was unable to drive the 
car. 
Mr H didnt accept Santanders offer and so this complaint has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mr H acquired a car through a conditional sale agreement with Santander. Under the 
regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), Santander can 
be held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Satisfactory quality takes into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car 
and what a reasonable person would expect taking into account all the 
circumstances. In this case Mr H acquired a new car and so it would be reasonable 
for him to expect the car to be free from faults, including minor defects, and 
sufficiently durable.
Mr H contacted the dealer on 30 July 2019. This was just over three months after 
acquiring the car. However, Mr H has explained that he had experienced the issues 
with the acceleration shortly after acquisition but initially thought it might be him 
needing to get used to the car. I dont find it reasonable that Mr H experienced issues 
so soon after acquisition of a new car.
There was a delay in having the car investigated by the dealer. However, in October 
2019, the car was returned, and several issues investigated, including Mr Hs 
concern about the acceleration and the parking sensors. The dealer couldnt find 
faults with the car. However, I note the comment about the acceleration issue being 
intermittent. Although a fault wasnt found at that time, as the car was returned for 
investigation and the issues were clearly explained, I find that the dealer was given 
an opportunity to investigate and repair at that time.
The issues were ongoing, and Mr H provided evidence of the parking sensors not 
working as they should and contacted Santander about the issues. Given the issues 
that were raised and the investigation that had happened, I find that Santander acted 
reasonably by having an independent inspection carried out. 
The inspection took place on 28 November 2019, around seven months after 
acquisition. This confirmed issues with the cars acceleration and the parking 
sensors:
"On two occasions we noted a lack of throttle response. This was noticeable on a flat 
road and also on an incline. On one occasion there was excessive lurch on light 
throttle application.....we noticed that the side parking sensors were only noted to 
activate when the vehicle was already close to objects"
Given the inspection report confirmed issues Mr H had reported being present from 
shortly after acquisition and didnt consider these items to be wear and tear, I find 
that further action should have been taken at this time. Santander accepted that it 
had the wrong outcome at this time but says it should be allowed the opportunity to 
repair the car rather than Mr H reject it.
I note the comments Santander has made, including saying that the dealer didnt find 
any faults and so couldnt carry out a repair. However, I find that Mr H did provide the 
dealer with the opportunity to repair in October 2019 and the issue continued after 
this. He acquired a new car which experienced issues shortly after acquisition and so 
I do not find it was sufficiently durable. Given this I find the fairest resolution is for 
Mr H to now be allowed to reject the car.As I find that Mr H should be allowed to reject the car I find that his agreement should 
be cancelled with nothing further owing and the car collected at no cost to him. I also 
find that the deposit paid should be refunded along with interest. Information has 
been provided to show that Mr H paid a total deposit amount of £3,000 with the 
remaining portion of the advance payment being a manufacturer contribution. 
Mr H has been caused inconvenience due to the issues he experienced,. He 
acquired new car and so should have been able to drive it without faults. Instead he 
had to return the car and then have a further inspection. Given this I agree with our 
investigators recommendation of £250 compensation for the inconvenience and 
upset Mr H has suffered. 
Mr H had use of the car until end March / early April 2020 and given the mileage 
covered to that date I find that he should be liable for the payments to that time. 
However, he has said that he hasnt driven the car since that time and has provided a 
photograph showing the mileage to be 12,727 miles  the same mileage as was 
provided in May 2020. Santander had previously offered to refund the monthly 
instalments for the time Mr H wasnt using the car and I find this fair. I also think that 
associated costs, such as tax and insurance, should also be refunded (subject to 
evidence being provided). 
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint, Santander should:
1. cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay;
2. collect the car at no cost to Mr H;
3. refund the deposit Mr H paid (I understand this to be £3,000);
4. remove any adverse information that may be recorded about the agreement from 
Mr Hs credit file;
5. pay £250 compensation for the trouble and upset he has been caused; and
6. refund payments Mr H has made since he stopped using the car (April 2020) along 
with associated costs  tax and insurance (subject to evidence of these costs being 
provided).
Items 3 and 6 are subject to 8% simple interest from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement.
If Santander considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Santander Consumer (UK) Plc should take 
the actions set out above to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman