DRN-3493194
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr A complain that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited unfairly declined a private 
medical insurance claim.
What happened
Mrs A and Mr A have access to a group private medical insurance policy. They claimed on it 
when they wanted their son (who was also covered under the policy) to undergo testing for 
suspected Hypogonadism  a condition where the body doesnt produce sufficient 
testosterone. Ill call their son X.
AXA authorised the claim and X underwent some tests. But when AXA was told X would 
need a Luteinising Hormone Releasing Hormone (LHRH) test, it requested further 
information and subsequently declined the claim. 
Mrs A and Mr A went ahead with the LHRH test, but complained about the way AXA had 
dealt with matters. 
AXA apologised and said it had authorised the claim in error. It said treatment for Xs 
symptoms and/or condition wasnt covered, but it would honour any treatment that X had 
undergone up until the point of its correct decline. When preparing its file for this service, 
AXA offered £250 in compensation too. 
Our investigator thought AXA had declined the claim correctly. They agreed it should have 
done so sooner, but while they acknowledged that delay had an impact on Mrs A and Mr A, 
they thought AXAs offer was fair.
Mrs A and Mr A said £250 was insufficient. They reiterated their original concerns and said 
they did not care much for the policy wording given AXAs failings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have considered all submissions, I will only focus on those matters I consider 
central to the outcome of this complaint. 
AXA has a responsibility to consider claims both promptly and fairly, and to not reject them 
unreasonably. Its declined this claim on the grounds that it relates to delayed puberty, and 
having looked at the relevant policy terms and the available medical evidence I dont think 
that was unreasonable. 
Without reciting everything, I note a GP referral letter which asks for X to be seen for 
suspected hypogonadism. The letter refers to X as having slightly low testosterone, as well 
as experiencing delayed/stopped secondary characteristics with delayed/stopped physical 
features and body hair. 
I also note a clinic letter which says X was experiencing delayed puberty. It sets out a family 
history of hypogonadism and says that following investigations, there would likely be a 
diagnosis of constitutional delay of growth in puberty. The letter also details that X has been:
growing slowly over the last few years and had not shown signs of pubertal progression. 
Turning then to the relevant policy terms, section 4.18 of the membership handbook says:
4.18 > Learning and developmental disorders
We do not cover any treatment, investigations, assessment or grading to do with:

physical development
Section 4.22 of the handbook also says:
4.22 > Natural ageing
We do not pay for treatment of symptoms generally associated with the natural process of 
ageing. This includes treatment for the symptoms of puberty and menopause including 
symptoms as a result of medical intervention.
So given the symptoms and suspected condition described above, I dont think it was 
unreasonable of AXA to conclude that the claim being made related to delayed puberty and 
therefore was not covered under the group policy. 
Mrs A and Mr A have set out their position at length and I am aware that they feel very 
strongly about AXA relying on terms which refer to treatment. They say X didnt actually 
undergo any treatment; he was simply undergoing tests. 
I think it important to highlight section 7 of the handbook which explains the following:
Certain terms in this handbook have specific meanings. The terms and their meanings are 
listed in this glossary.
Where weve highlighted these terms in bold they have a specific meaning.
 The terms marked with this symbol have meanings that are agreed by the Association of 
British Insurers. These meaning are used by most medical insurers.
Reading on, section 7 then continues to detail: 
diagnostic tests   investigations, such as x-rays or blood tests, to find or to help to find 
the cause of your symptoms.
treatment   surgical or medical services (including diagnostic tests) that are needed to 
diagnose, relieve or cure a disease, illness or injury.
So although I appreciate Mrs A and Mr As position, I still dont think it was unreasonable of 
AXA to decline the claim for the reasons it did.
That being said, I do think AXA should have realised that the claim wasnt covered sooner 
than it did. And I accept its delay in doing so had an impact.
Mrs A and Mr A were, for example, upset and concerned when they learned the claim wasnt going to be covered. They were frustrated that they hadnt been told sooner, and they were 
distressed when they had to decide whether to go ahead with the LHRH test or not. I 
empathise with that, and I think it was right of AXA to take steps that it did to put things right. 
I know Mrs A and Mr A think that AXA should be held responsible for more than the above, 
and certainly for the cost of the LHRH which I understand was over £3,000, but Im not 
persuaded I can fairly agree. At the point Mrs A and Mr A chose to go ahead with the LHRH 
they were aware that AXA wouldnt be covering it. I fully appreciate the reasons Mrs A and 
Mr A have given as to why they ultimately chose to go ahead. But I must bear in mind that 
they did so knowing it wouldnt be covered.  
AXA has already explained it will honour the treatment X had undergone up until the point of 
its declination. And, it has paid the admission costs incurred for Xs test too. I think that was 
the right thing for it to do at the time, and so I will not be interfering with its position on that.
Despite Mrs A and Mr As concerns about AXAs admitted failings, compensation is not 
designed to be used as a punitive measure. I have already explained why I will not be 
directing AXA to pay for the LHRH test, and for the reasons given above I think its most 
recent offer, of £250, is a fair and proportionate reflection of the impact of its failings had 
here. 
Putting things right
To put things right, and if it has not already done so, AXA should now pay £250 
compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. AXA PPP Healthcare Limited should put 
things right in the way I have described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman