DRN-3328302
The complaint
This decision follows on from a jurisdiction decision in which I decided that the issues we are 
able to consider in relation to Mr Fs complaint against UCB Home Loans Corporation Ltd 
are:
UCBs failure to give fair consideration to his request for a term extension;
UCBs decision to appoint Law of Property Act Receivers (LPARs);
the unfair rejection of an offer of £131,500 on the property;
difficulties communicating with UCB and its solicitors.
To avoid confusion, I will only refer in this decision to those matters, and not to any issue I 
have decided is not within our jurisdiction.
To settle the complaint Mr F would like UCB to accept a reasonable offer for the shortfall 
debt that is now outstanding.
What happened
I dont need to set out all the details of the complaint because the investigator has already 
done so, and all parties have a copy of those letters. In addition, our decisions are published, 
and so its important that I dont include any information that might lead to Mr F being 
identified. So for these reasons, I dont need to set out everything thats happened. Instead I 
will give a brief summary of whats happened.
In 2005 Mr F, along with another party, Mr T, took out a BTL mortgage with UCB, borrowing 
just under £148,000 over a 12-year term on an interest-only basis. In 2008 Mr F emigrated 
and the co-owner managed the property until he passed away in 2014. Since then the 
mortgage account has been in Mr Fs sole name.
In November 2017 UCB wrote to Mr F about the impending term end of the mortgage. Mr F 
put the property up for sale. December 2017 the mortgage term came to an end. Mr F asked 
for a three-month extension to sell the property. I understand Mr F had also looked into 
re-mortgaging, but the property was in negative equity so this wasnt possible. The property 
was subject to a tenancy which ran until February 2019.
It appears there were some communication difficulties, as UCB wrote to Mrs T, the widow of 
Mr T (who had died in 2014), but it does appear Mr F became aware of the letters sent to 
that address.
In April 2018 UCB wrote (again to Mrs T) stating that LPARs had been appointed. 
Mr F made a complaint as he didnt think this was fair. He thought UCB had acted hastily in 
appointing LPARs without first seeking an acceptable solution to the situation of how the 
mortgage would be repaid.
Thereafter Mr F communicated with the LPARs as well as UCB. In June 2018 hed had an 
offer of £131,500 on the property. This would leave a shortfall of around £20,000 which Mr F 
offered to pay in four instalments of £5,000. The tenants, however, refused access to the 
property to enable UCB to inspect it for valuation purposes, which it needed to do in order to 
consider the offer on the property. The LPARs did not, however, recommend to UCB that the 
offer should be accepted, as they thought the property was worth £140,000 on the open 
market. The LPARs suggested offering the tenants an incentive of £1,000 to vacate, which 
would allow the property to be sold with vacant possession, and would avoid the need to file 
a two-month notice to terminate the tenancy, followed by court proceedings.
The tenants vacated the property in October 2018, and the property was eventually sold in 
April 2019 for £126,000, leaving a shortfall of just under £40,000. Mr F was in contact with 
UCBs solicitors to negotiate payment of the shortfall, and was unhappy with the difficulties 
he had communicating with them.
Mr F complained to UCB. He said hed never missed a payment and so thought UCBs 
treatment of him was unfair. Mr F was unhappy that the offer hed put forward from an 
interested party of £131,500 wasnt accepted and he disagreed with what UCBs version of 
events in relation to attempts to gain access to the property. He offered £10,000 in 
settlement of the £39,000 shortfall.
UCB didnt uphold the complaint and directed Mr F to speak to its solicitors about the 
shortfall. 
Mr F brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at 
what had happened, but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr F disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Hes reiterated his concerns about how 
unfairly he believes UCB has acted in its handling of the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Term extension: Ive noted what Mr F has said about never missing a payment on the 
mortgage, and I do accept that during the course of the mortgage term, it wasnt in arrears. 
But its not correct that Mr F didnt miss a payment  because he missed making the final 
payment that was due at the end of the term in November 2017 to pay off the capital.
This is a breach of the mortgage conditions, and allowed UCB to take immediate 
possession. I note, however, that UCB didnt do so. Mr F says that he didnt receive any 
response from UCB to his letter sent in December 2017 asking for a three-month extension 
while he sold the property. But as more than three months passed until UCB appointed the 
LPARs in April 2018, and Mr F still hadnt sold the property, I dont think his position was 
made any worse, notwithstanding the difficulties he had communicating with UCB. The fact 
is that the property didnt sell within the three month extension Mr F wanted from December 
2017, so whether or not UCB had consented wouldnt have made any difference to this.
Appointment of LPARs: This is allowed in the mortgage terms and conditions, but I have to 
consider whether it was reasonable for UCB to appoint the LPARs when it did.
The mortgage debt had been outstanding since November 2017.  As a commercial borrower 
Mr F would, or should, have known that UCB was entitled to appoint LPARs in the event that 
the capital wasnt repaid at the end of the term. I dont think UCB acted hastily when it 
appointed the LPARs, as five months had passed since the end of the mortgage term. The 
property was in negative equity and so leaving the property unsold wasnt an option, due to 
the risk to UCBs security.In all the circumstances, I dont think UCB acted unfairly in appointing the LPARs when it 
did.
Rejection of offer: Mr F had found a buyer for the property in June 2018 who offered 
£131,500 for the property, with vacant possession (the tenancy wasnt due to end until 
February 2019). UCB wanted to inspect the property in order to be able properly to assess 
the offer, but the tenants refused access and so UCBs surveyor wasnt able to see the 
internal state of the property. UCB was also advised by the LPARs that they thought the 
market value was £140,000. 
As a result, UCB rejected the offer, which Mr F thinks is unfair, given that the property 
eventually sold for less than the amount of the offer he had. However, Im satisfied UCB was 
entitled to carry out its own assessment of the property value, and, given it wasnt able to do 
so, I find its decision to reject the offer (and after receiving advice from the LPARs) was 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
I dont think the property was sold at an undervalue. There were several comparables 
obtained by UCB, and the property was advertised with an invitation for the next 28 days for 
any interested party to make a higher offer before it was sold. For the sale of an investment 
property, I find this was reasonable in all the circumstances.
Lenders arent required to leave a property unsold in the hope that a higher offer might be 
made, particularly when, as in this case, there were substantial arrears of service charges 
and Mr F had stopped paying interest on the outstanding mortgage balance. UCB was 
entitled to assess the level of risk to which it was prepared to be exposed when it accepted 
the offer of £126,000 in April 2019. I note Mr F believes the property was worth more than 
that, but there was nothing preventing him from trying to sell the property for a higher price 
from the point when vacant possession was granted in October 2018 to when it was sold in 
April 2019. 
Communication difficulties: Mr F lives in a different time zone from UCB, and so it was 
difficult for him to speak to either UCB or its solicitors on the phone. In addition, UCB wasnt 
prepared to correspond by email. I appreciate that it was frustrating for Mr F that UCB would 
only correspond by post, but I dont think this was unfair.
As I said above, the delay in responding to Mr Fs letter about his request for a term 
extension didnt cause him any detriment, as he had more than the three months he needed 
to sell the property before the LPARs were appointed. Mr F was also unhappy that UCB 
wouldnt communicate by email. However, this isnt a secure method of communication, and 
so I dont think it was unreasonable for UCB to say that it wouldnt contact Mr F in this way.
Overall, whilst I agree there were some difficulties in communication between Mr F, UCB 
and its solicitors, due to the logistics of trying to liaise through different time zones, I dont 
think this had an impact on the overall position or that it has caused any financial loss to 
Mr F. 
My final decision
I acknowledge Mr F will be disappointed, but my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman