DRN-3179311
The complaint
Mr N complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) provided an overdraft to him that 
was unaffordable.
What happened
In May 2016, Nationwide approved Mr P for an overdraft, which was subsequently increased 
three times. Mr P says when the overdraft was approved, Nationwide checked his credit 
score but didnt carry out any further checks. He says he had trouble repaying the debt and 
had to borrow further money to make the repayments. He says he wants Nationwide to 
refund all the interest and charges he has paid and to amend his credit file. 
In September 2020, Nationwide looked into Mr Ns complaint and said it disagreed that it had 
been irresponsible in lending to Mr N. Unhappy with this, Mr N referred his complaint to our 
service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ns complaint, but didnt think Nationwide had 
irresponsibly by providing Mr N with an overdraft. She said she thought Nationwides checks 
were sufficient and didnt recommend Nationwide did anything further.
Mr N disagreed and said Nationwide had also approved lending for a credit card at the same 
time the overdraft application was approved. He said in that case, our service had found that 
Nationwide had lent irresponsibly, so we should reach the same conclusion in this case. 
As Mr N remains in disagreement, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
Whilst I understand Mr N also referred a complaint about the credit card to this service, this 
complaint only concerns the lending decision made when the overdraft was approved and 
any subsequent increases of it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
 including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered 
this approach while deciding Mr Ns complaint.
Mr N made an online application for an overdraft in May 2016. Nationwide approved an initial 
overdraft limit of £500. Following this, Mr N made further online applications to increase the 
overdraft to £1,000 in June 2016, £2,000 later in June 2016 and £2,250 in July 2016. 
Nationwide approved these applications.
Before approving these overdraft applications, Nationwide needed to make sure it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. This means it needed to carry out proportionate checks to satisfy itself that   
Mr N could afford to repay the amount it was lending. A proportionate check is dependent on 
a number of factors including  but not limited to  Mr Ns particular circumstances (e.g. his 
financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial 
difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit he was looking to obtain. 
At the time of the initial overdraft application, Nationwide obtained details of Mr Ns income 
and carried out a credit search. It has sent our service a copy of the information it obtained. 
Having reviewed the information, it suggests that an overdraft amount of £500 was 
affordable for Mr N. 
However, Im mindful that the following month, Nationwide approved two further overdraft 
increase requests from Mr N of £1,000 and then to £2,000. And it increased the overdraft to 
£2,250 following another request from Mr N the month after this. Given there was a short 
period of time between the three follow up applications, I think Nationwide should have taken 
a closer look at Mr Ns circumstances before agreeing to the increases.
Ive looked at Mr Ns statements in the lead up to the applications being made. Having done 
so, I dont think there was anything concerning during this period of time. I can see Mr N 
made regular payments into his account. And his use of the overdraft facility was 
significantly less than the overdraft limit at the time Nationwide approved each of the 
increases to the overdraft limit. Ive seen nothing in the transactions in the lead up to the 
overdraft increases which could indicate to Nationwide that Mr N may be in financial 
difficulty. In fact in the month following the last overdraft increase, I can see significant 
income was paid into his account and this continued for a number of months. This income 
was in excess of the amount Mr N had declared as his income. So there was no reason to 
for Nationwide to further question the information it already obtained, which suggested the 
overdraft limit increases were affordable. 
From this, Im satisfied the information available to Nationwide suggested that Mr N would be 
able to repay what he borrowed within a reasonable amount of time at the time it approved 
the overdraft increases. 
Ive also looked at further information Nationwide received after it had approved the overdraft 
increases from a credit reference agency. This information indicated Mr N had a historic 
bankruptcy. Further checks this service carried out show Mr N was in an IVA at the time he 
made the overdraft applications. But Nationwide wasnt aware of this information, as it wasnt 
included in the credit check information it obtained at the time it made the lending decisions. 
It has said had it known this, it wouldnt have approved any lending to Mr N. 
Having thought about this and bearing in mind the particular circumstances here, I dont 
think Nationwide did anything wrong on the occasions it lent to Mr N. And I dont think it 
needed to do anything further at the time it received the information about the bankruptcy 
from a credit reference agency. 
I accept that a bankruptcy is the most significant record of a potential borrowers previous 
difficulties with credit. And this quite right ought to warrant increased scrutiny on an 
application. But what is crucial here is that the reported bankruptcy wasnt recent and it had 
taken place some years before. Additionally, Mr N was maintaining his account well and he 
was receiving significant credits into the account at the time and for a number of months 
after. And, in my view, this was stronger evidence of his ability to repay what he owed at that 
time, rather than the historic bankruptcy which was an indication of his inability to repay his 
debts a number of years previously. 
So as Mr N was maintaining the account well, given the particular circumstances here, I 
dont think that any historic bankruptcy should have overridden the other available evidence 
which demonstrated that Mr N could comfortably afford to repay his overdraft. Mr N has also 
provided us with his bank statements with another provider showing the months leading up to the overdraft. These again show significant income being paid into the account. So even if 
Nationwide did carry out further checks, its likely these would have shown that Mr N would 
be able to repay the amount it lent within a reasonable amount of time, without any difficulty.
Ive also looked at Mr Ns use of the account to see whether Nationwide should have 
become aware that Mr N may be in financial difficulty. Having done so, I dont think there 
was anything to indicate this. This is because around February 2017, Mr N had nearly used 
all the available overdraft allowance, but his income stopped being paid into the account and 
his expenditure out of the account stopped around this time. I note that there were some 
sporadic payments in some months in the years following this. But from around February 
2017, Mr N started making regular monthly payments into the account to pay off the 
overdraft. He cleared the balance in July 2020. Mr N clearly had other accounts as he was 
transferring money in from and to different accounts. I dont think his decision to stop using 
the account would in itself indicate there was a problem. And I think by making regular 
payments to clear the overdraft, it was likely Mr Ns intention to repay it. 
So overall, while I accept Mr N has had a complaint regarding lending on a different product 
upheld, I dont think there is anything in this case to suggest that Nationwide ought to have 
realised that Mr N shouldnt have been lent to or that he was in any financial difficulty.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman