DRN-4330821
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the service provided by West Bay Insurance Plc (WBI) after cancelling 
his motorbike insurance policy. 
  
What happened
Mr C took out motorbike insurance with WBI in March 2021. During the application process 
Mr C was asked about modifications to his motorbike. Mr C has explained he wasnt aware 
of any, and so didnt provide any information.
 
In June 2021 Mr C tried to make a claim under his policy following an incident involving his 
bike. WBI didnt pay Mr Cs claim. WBI voided Mr Cs policy on the basis of careless 
misrepresentation. Mr C complained about WBIs decision to void his policy. WBI responded 
to Mr Cs complaint on 4 August 2021 rejecting it. WBI also explained You have the right to 
refer your complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, free of charge  but you must do 
so within six months of the date of this letter. 
In May 2023 Mr C tried to take out insurance with WBI, but WBI refused to reinsure Mr C. Mr 
C complained to WBI about its decision not to sell insurance to him. Mr C was informed an 
internal marker had been placed on his file due to the original misrepresentation, and WBI 
would not look to reinsure Mr C because of this. Mr C was unhappy with this response, and 
brought his complaint about his policy being voided in May 2021, and being refused 
insurance in May 2023, to this Service for investigation. 
  
The investigator said that we couldnt look at Mr Cs complaint about his policy being voided, 
as this complaint hadnt been brought to us in time. The investigator also explained WBI had 
acted reasonably in its decision not to reinsure Mr C. Mr C rejected these findings. As the 
complaint couldnt be resolved it has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Decision to void Mr Cs policy
The rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. In my decision, Ive explained what this means for Mr C's complaint.
We operate under a set of rules laid down by Parliament under the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000, published by the Financial Conduct Authority and known as the DISP 
rules. These set out the extent of our powers, including the time limits that apply to our 
complaints.
DISP 2.8.2 says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant 
its final response
unless:
3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 
2.8.2 was as a result of exceptional circumstances; or
5) the respondent has consented to the Ombudsman considering the complaint...
WBI hasnt consented to our Service considering the merits of Mr Cs complaint about 
events that happened in 2021. I need to determine whether the complaint was made in time.
WBIs FRL was dated 4 August 2021. It stated that Mr C had six months within which 
to refer his complaint to this Service if he remained dissatisfied. And it made clear that it 
wouldnt consent to this Service considering the complaint if it was made outside of the six 
month timeframe required. Mr C didnt contact us until May 2023 which is well outside the 
six-month timeframe. So, according to the rule Ive referred to above, hes made his 
complaint too late.
The only way I can set aside this time limit is if there were exceptional circumstances for 
Mr C not being able to refer the complaint to us. But the bar for exceptional circumstances 
is a high one  the example given in DISP is someone being incapacitated. Mr C hasnt 
given any reasons for the late referral of this complaint and so Im not persuaded exceptional 
circumstances apply here.
For the reasons explained, I dont think we can consider this part of Mr Cs complaint. I 
understand that this decision may be disappointing for Mr C and Im sorry that we cant help 
him on this occasion. 
Marker placed against Mr C 
Mr C says he doesnt agree with WBIs decision not to reinsure him. Having reviewed the 
evidence I dont think WBI need to do anything in settlement of this complaint. I can 
understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr C but I hope my findings go 
some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Mr C is frustrated that WBI wont reinsure him because of the information held on an internal 
system about his previously voided policy. Whilst I appreciate Mr Cs upset, WBI hasnt done 
anything wrong in recording Mr Cs information from his previous policy. It is for WBI to 
decide whether to offer insurance, and on what terms. And I dont think WBIs explanation to 
Mr C about why it wont be able to reinsure him is unreasonable or unfair.  
WBI has confirmed that Mr C would still be able to seek new insurance elsewhere with other 
brokers and other insurers. Mr C would be required to disclose that he had a policy declared 
void and a claim declined. The information provided by WBI is reasonable, and in line with 
what wed expect. 
My final decision
My decision is that we cant consider Mr Cs complaint about West Bay Insurance Plc 
voiding his motorbike insurance policy because it was made too late. For the reasons provided I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about West Bay Insurance Plcs 
decision not to reinsure Mr C.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman