DRN-2438756
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complained that they were mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy by Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) trading as Norwich & Peterborough 
Building Society. YBS is responsible for answering this complaint so for simplicity Ill just 
refer to YBS from now on. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs K took out the PPI alongside a mortgage in 1994. The policy started in July 1994 
and was cancelled when the mortgage was repaid in December 1998. Mr and Mrs K said 
they took the mortgage and PPI out via a postal application, and that they had to take the 
PPI to get the mortgage. They also said it wasnt suitable for them. YBS couldnt confirm the 
sales channel, but said that PPI would not have been compulsory, and that Mr and Mrs K 
would have been given information about the cover so they could choose whether to take it. 
The policy provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mr and Mrs K at a 
monthly cost of £36.40. YBS said the monthly benefit would have been £560. If Mr and Mrs 
K had made a successful claim, the policy couldve paid out for up to 24 months per claim for 
accident and sickness, and up to 12 months per claim for unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs K disagreed, and 
asked that it be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ks case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
This is a difficult case to decide given the lack of information from Mr and Mrs Ks PPI sale - 
YBS was only able to send in a computer record confirming the start and end dates of the 
PPI policy, and a sample copy of a PPI information leaflet and application form from the time 
of the sale. Having said that, the absence of documentation is unsurprising given that the 
mortgage was repaid around 22 years ago, in December 1998, and businesses are not 
required to keep records indefinitely. 
I should also say at this point that Mr and Mrs K have referred to receiving information from a 
broker (one of their employers), but as Mr and Mrs K have referred to the mortgage 
application being by post, and have complained that it was YBS that sold the PPI, I have 
taken it that their mortgage application was made directly to YBS rather than through a 
broker. YBS has also not referred to the mortgage application being submitted through a 
broker (although I accept its records are very limited). On this basis I have considered the 
complaint against YBS.
As Ive said, Mr and Mrs K said the sale took place by post, and they had to take the PPI to 
get the mortgage. On the other hand, YBS said PPI was an optional product in relation to a 
mortgage application. As there is so little information available from the point of sale, I have 
also taken into account what we know about other YBS sales of PPI at about the same time. 
We also asked YBS about the mortgage products on offer at the time of Mr and Mrs Ks sale, 
and it said there was a product with a discounted rate, where a condition of the discount was 
taking insurance, and another mortgage product without the discount and where no 
insurance was required. In my experience it was not unusual for lenders to have, as part of 
their offering, discounted or fixed rate mortgages where an insurance product had to be 
taken for a period of time in order to obtain the fixed or discounted mortgage rate. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs K said. I accept that they are adamant that they 
had to take the PPI, but I think its quite possible that this couldve been a condition of the 
mortgage product they took. This, in itself, would not be enough for me to uphold their 
complaint - I can see no reason why they wouldnt have been able to choose a different 
mortgage product from YBS, without insurance. Looking at the only document I have from 
the time of the sale  the PPI information leaflet  I cant see anything that suggests that PPI 
was compulsory. Ive also kept in mind that I havent seen problems with PPI being 
presented in this way in other, similar YBS sales. 
Having carefully considered what both parties have said, I dont think I can fairly say its most 
likely that Mr and Mrs K had to take PPI to get a mortgage at all, which is what Id have to do 
to be able to uphold the complaint on this point  I simply dont have enough evidence that 
this is what happened. 
Ive also looked at what Mr and Mrs K said about the policy being unsuitable for them. Ive 
no evidence to suggest that the PPI was recommended for them, so YBS didnt have to 
make sure it was suitable. But YBS should have given them enough information for them to 
make an informed decision about it. 
Mr and Mrs K said this was a postal application, so I cant be certain what information they 
were given about the PPI, but as the PPI application form seems to be part of the 
information leaflet it seems likely that they wouldve received this leaflet at least. The leaflet 
sets out brief details of the exclusions, and I cant see that Mr and Mrs K wouldve been 
affected by any of these. There are also some cost details, along with an example of a 
premium calculation, so I think Mr and Mrs K wouldve had some idea of the cost of the 
cover. And Ive no evidence to suggest the premium was unaffordable for them.
Mr and Mrs K told us that Mr K wouldve been entitled to sick pay from his employer of six 
months full pay followed by six months half pay, and Mrs K wouldve been entitled to six 
months full sick pay. They said they had savings they couldve relied on, and an investment 
that they couldve cashed in. However, the policy couldve paid out for up to 24 months in the 
event of sickness or accident  much longer than their sick pay wouldve continued  and 12 
months in the event of either losing their job. I can see no reason why Mr and Mrs K wouldnt 
have been able to claim on the policy, and I think it couldve provided a useful benefit to 
them if either was unable to work  they couldve used their savings for their other living 
expenses, and would have avoided having to cash in their investment. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs K, as I can see they feel strongly about this, but my 
conclusion is that, on the evidence I have, I cant fairly say the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman