DRN-4358492
The complaint
Mrs T had complained  that Pinnacle Insurance plc (Pinnacle) has rejected her claim for the 
cost of treatment for her pet cat on the ground that the condition claimed for was pre-
existing.
What happened
Mrs Ts cat, who Ill refer to as B, was insured with Pinnacle from 24 August 2022. On 1 
November 2022, B fractured his left hind leg when jumping. He was seen a few days later by 
his vet who undertook tests and x-rays. When he didnt improve after rest and pain relief, he 
was also seen by an orthopaedic consultant. Mrs T submitted a claim to Pinnacle for the 
costs of the tests and x-rays.
Pinnacle rejected Mrs Ts claim, maintaining that the claim was due to the symptoms of Bs 
condition occurring prior to our policy commencing. The policy says it will not cover:
Any condition or symptom, or anything related to it, that you were aware of or has been 
noted and/or checked by a vet, before this policy started.
Having seen Bs medical records, it referred to an incident some four months previously 
when B had been seen by the vet for a sudden swelling on the same leg which was causing 
lameness. Bs vet diagnosed this as an infection probably caused by an insect bite. The vet 
prescribed antibiotics and anti-inflammatories and Bs condition resolved within 48 hours and 
his lameness had improved within a week. No further treatment was required.
Bs vets client care advisor originally stated that the two incidents were linked. However, a 
subsequent statement was provided by Bs treating vet who said she had consulted with all 
the vets involved in Bs diagnosis and treatment, including having spoken to the orthopaedic 
consultant who assessed B. Having done so she didnt believe that the episode of lameness 
in July was related to Bs lameness in November. Her reasons for saying so were that (1) B 
was sound frorn the beginning of August until November, and (2) there was no evidence of 
chronicity in his radiographs which wouldve been expected to have been seen if the 
November injury had started in July.
Pinnacle provided a statement from its vet. This suggested that it was highly unlikely that the 
July 2022 episode of lameness and the November 2022 episode were not related. It said 
that both incidents were specifically related to the pathology of Bs left tarsus (ankle). It also 
provided the opinion of another specialist vet as to Bs condition in November, but this didnt 
make any reference to any previous condition. Attempts by Pinnacle to obtain clarification 
from this specialist as to any connection with a previous condition have not been successful. 
Pinnacle therefore hasnt provided any further grounds for maintaining that the fracture in 
November was connected to Bs lameness in July.
Mrs T wasnt satisfied with Pinnacles rejection of her claim and brought a complaint to this  
service. Our investigator was persuaded by the recent statement from Bs vet that the July 
and November episodes of lameness werent linked. In his view Pinnacle should reconsider 
Mrs Ts claim and that it should pay her £100 compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience.
As Pinnacle doesnt accept our investigators view, Mrs Ts complaint has been passed to 
me for a review and a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mrs Ts complaint and Ill explain why.
It is for Pinnacle to provide evidence that, on the balance of probabilities, it has acted 
reasonably in rejecting Mrs Ts claim on the ground that the condition claimed for was:
Any condition or symptom, or anything related to it, that you were aware of or has been 
noted and/or checked by a vet, before this policy started.
I dont consider that it has done so.
 
Pinnacles vet has expressed the view that it is highly likely that the July and November 
episodes of Bs lameness were related as both episodes were specifically related to the 
pathology of his left tarsus (ankle). In this vets view, B is likely to have a bilateral limb 
deformity due to a growth plate disruption which left his left leg predisposed to injury. 
Pinnacles specialist who also provided comment on Bs condition did not make reference to 
any previous incident of lameness and consequently didnt comment on any connection 
there might be between the July and November episodes. Pinnacle hasnt been able to 
obtain any further comment from him.  
Following a further evaluation of Bs radiographs, Bs treating vet and others, including the 
orthopaedic consultant who also examined him, gave their view that Bs lameness in July 
wasnt connected to the lameness that he suffered again in November. In the view of Bs vet, 
Bs lameness in July was due to an infection probably caused by an insect bite. There was 
no suggestion, even after a further evaluation of the radiographs, that there was an 
underlying concern about Bs pathology.
But even if the July and November episodes were connected by an underlying congenital or 
developmental issue with Bs rear limbs, for the policy exclusion to apply either Mrs T 
wouldve had to be aware of this condition or symptom in July before the policy started or 
that it had been noted and/or checked by a vet at that time. There is no evidence that either 
Mrs T or Bs primary vet had any knowledge of this.
 
Im therefore of the opinion that Pinnacle has acted unfairly in rejecting Mrs Ts clam.
I also agree with our investigator that compensation of £100 is appropriate in the 
circumstances for the distress and inconvenience that Pinnacles rejection of her claim, with 
little explanation as to its basis for doing so, has caused her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im upholding Mrs Ts complaint.
I require Pinnacle Insurance plc:1. to settle Mrs Ts claim subject to any other terms and conditions of her policy.
2.  to pay Mrs T interest on any sum paid to her at the simple rate of 8% from the date 
of her claim until payment is made to her.
If Pinnacle Insurance plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs T how much its taken off. It 
should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
3. to pay Mrs T compensation of £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman