DRN-2811489
The complaint
Mr N complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited wont reimburse him for the cost of repairs 
to the car he obtained thought a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
Mr N obtained a second-hand car in September 2020, financed through a hire purchase 
agreement with MotoNovo.
Both parties are familiar with the background to this complaint which was set out in detail by 
our investigator. So I wont repeat it again here. In brief summary, Mr N wants compensation 
and his costs reimbursed following the repairs that were needed around two months after he 
obtained the car.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that it 
was likely that there was a fault with the fuel pump when the car was supplied and that 
MotoNovo should reimburse Mr N with £254.95 plus interest. She also thought it should 
refund two months payments and pay Mr N £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Mr N agreed with our investigators conclusions. MotoNovo didnt agree. It said, in summary, 
that:
There was no fault with the fuel pump when the car was test driven.
Mr N did not give the supplying garage an opportunity to inspect the car  he did not turn 
up at the supplying garage on 13 January as agreed.
The repairs that have been carried out were unauthorised.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of goods is satisfactory. As such, in order to uphold this complaint, I would have 
to be persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a breach of contract
has taken place.
In deciding whether a car is of satisfactory quality, some of the factors to consider are its age 
when it was supplied, how much mileage the car covered since it was supplied and how long 
after supply the fault materialised.
The car was around six years old when it was supplied in September 2020 and its mileage 
was around 70,000 miles.
The fault has already been repaired so its not possible now for an expert to say, with any 
certainty, if the fault which caused the car to go into limp mode and required the fuel pump to 
be replaced was present when the car was supplied. In cases like this, where the evidence 
is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Having done so, I find Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator for the following 
reasons:
I think it more likely than not that the dashboard light which came on during the test drive 
was a warning light, rather than a low fuel indicator. After the car broke down, it required a 
new fuel pump. And I think its likely this was connected to the warning light.
The car broke down around two months after it had been supplied. It required the fuel pump 
to be replaced. The car had been driven around 6,000 miles by this point and it was 
second-hand, so its reasonable to expect some wear and tear. But, even taking this into 
account, I wouldnt have expected the fuel pump to need replacing so soon after the car had 
been supplied.
For this reason, I find, on balance, that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied.
It follows that MotoNovo is responsible for putting this right. Ive taken into account that the 
supplying garage was not given the opportunity to inspect the car or fix the fault. But I dont 
think Mr Ns actions were unreasonable. He told us he did not want a round trip of over 300 
miles to return the car to supplying garage, particularly as the country was in a lockdown 
situation. And he expected the repairs to be carried out under warranty  which is why he 
took the car to a local garage which was approved by the business that supplied the 
warranty. I agree with MotoNovo that it would have been better if Mr N had sought its 
authorisation to carry out the repairs. But he didnt realise he needed to do this and, in the 
circumstances, was more concerned with getting the repairs carried out quickly so he could 
use the car.
Some of the repair was covered by the warranty. And some of the costs involved in the 
repair, such as a replacement cam belt, Mr N agrees were due to normal wear and tear. But 
hes provided evidence to show that he had to pay £254.95 towards the replacement fuel 
pump and I think this should be reimbursed, plus interest.
He didnt have use of the car for around two months, so MotoNovo should refund payments 
for December and January, plus interest.
Mr N had to pay for insurance on a family members car so that he still had use of a vehicle. 
Ive taken into account that, had he returned the car to the supplying garage, its most likely 
he would have had use of a courtesy vehicle. But to reimburse him for some of his additional 
costs and to cover the trouble and upset hes been caused, I think compensation of £150 is 
fair and reasonable.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that MotoNovo Finance Limited should:
1. Pay Mr N £254.95 to reimburse him for the cost of repairs to the car, plus interest at 8% 
simple from the date he paid the invoice to the date its reimbursed. *
2. Refund the monthly hire purchase payments for December 2020 and January 2021, plus 
interest at 8% simple. *
3. Pay Mr N £150 compensation.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires MotoNovo to take off tax from this interest. MotoNovo 
must give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman