DRN-3782004
The complaint
Miss B complains about her insurer, AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA). Her complaint is about 
paying for two home contents insurance policies she says were renewed without her 
knowledge or consent. One policy was with AXA and one was with another insurer (L).
References to AXA include their agents who handle claims.
This decision only covers Miss Bs complaint about her policy with AXA. It doesnt cover the 
policy she had with L (who Miss B says refunded her 50% of the premiums shed paid)
What happened
Miss B had a home contents insurance policy with L that she took out in 2018. She didnt 
receive any policy documents about renewal of the policy. Thinking her policy hadnt been 
renewed and not wishing to be without cover, she took out a new policy with AXA in 2019. 
AXA phoned Miss B in 2021 to check everything was in order with the policy, saying 
because of the Covid Pandemic theyd renewed policies without confirmation to 
policyholders. Miss B said shed not received policy documents or renewal confirmation from 
AXA. She checked her bank account and discovered premiums had been collected for both 
policies (through direct debits) by both AXA and L.
Miss B contacted AXA and L to tell them about having had two policies. L told her that both 
they and AXA would have to refund half of the respective premiums shed paid for both 
policies, under the arrangements covering situations where there had been dual insurance. L 
refunded Miss B half of the premiums shed paid for her policy with them. However, AXA told 
Miss B her policy with them was different to the policy with L, as it included additional 
elements of cover that werent included in the policy with L. So, theyd only refund part of the 
premiums shed paid for her policy with them (in respect of basic contents cover) and not the 
premiums in respect of the additional elements of cover not included in the policy with L. 
They refunded £147.76 (Miss B had paid a total of £528.40 in premiums for the two years of 
the policy). Miss B thought she should receive half of the total premiums (£264.20) so 
thought AXA should refund a further £116.40.
Miss B was unhappy at not receiving what she thought should be half of the total premiums 
shed paid for her policies with AXA, so she complained to this service. She said she hadnt 
received policy details from AXA and the first she knew about the renewal of her policy was 
when she had a courtesy call from AXA. She said AXA had taken the premiums for the 
policy from her account for both years without her knowledge or consent. She didnt accept 
AXAs view that the policy with them was different to the policy with the other insurer  as 
she thought it covered the same items. She wanted to be refunded the £116.44 - being the 
balance of 50% of the two premiums shed paid for her policy with AXA (£528.40) less the 
partial refund of £147.76 AXA had made to her. 
 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought AXA acted fairly in saying theyd 
only refund half of the premiums paid for the basic contents element of the premiums Miss B 
had paid for her policies with them. Looking at the policy schedules for Miss Bs policies with 
AXA, he noted cover for a high-value work of art and for unspecified personal belongings. 
The proof of insurance document provided by L didnt indicate they provided these additional 
elements of cover. So, AXA had acted fairly in not making a refund of those elements of 
premium for the additional elements of cover. But if Miss B could provide evidence her 
policies with L did include similar additional elements of cover to those in the AXA policies, 
the investigator thought it was reasonable for AXA to say theyd consider an additional 
refund of premium in respect of those additional elements.
Miss B was unhappy at the investigators conclusions, saying shed asked L to provide 
copies of the policy documents and schedules - but shed not received them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether AXA have acted fairly towards Miss B.
In considering the complaint, the key issue is whether AXA have acted fairly in only 
refunding part of the premiums Miss B paid for the policies she had with them. Miss B says 
AXA should have refunded half of the premiums shed paid (not just a refund of part of the 
premiums) as shed been refunded by L. AXA say the policy Miss B had with them had 
additional elements of cover not included in the policy with L. So, they acted fairly in not 
making a refund in respect of the premiums paid in respect of those additional elements of 
cover.
In considering the case, whats not in dispute is that Miss B had two separate policies for her 
home contents insurance, one with AXA and one with L. And both AXA and L accept that the 
arrangements where a consumer finds they have two policies for the same type of cover 
mean the consumer should receive a refund of half of the respective premiums paid for the 
two policies. And in Miss Bs case, L have refunded half of the premiums she paid for her 
policy with them. 
But AXA say the evidence about the cover provided under their policy is that there are 
additional elements not included in the policy with L. Specifically, cover for a specified high 
value piece of art and for unspecified personal possessions. Looking at the policy schedule 
for the AXA policy, I can see these additional elements of cover. To date, the only 
documentation provided by Miss B about the policy she had with L (a proof of insurance 
document) doesnt indicate the same additional elements of cover in the policy with L. 
Based on this, I cant conclude AXA have acted unfairly or unreasonably in only refunding 
half of the same element of cover (basic contents cover) as that in the policy with L. Thats 
because if the additional elements of cover provided in the AXA policy arent included in the 
L policy, then its reasonable for AXA to say Miss B hasnt paid twice for the same cover  so 
shouldnt receive a refund of premium for that additional cover.
Miss B says its unfair her complaint to this service hasnt included consideration of whether 
the two policies (with AXA and with L) do include the same elements. Because she hasnt 
been able to obtain copies of the detailed policy schedules and terms and conditions from L. 
I can understand why Miss B thinks this, but I can only consider her complaint on the basis 
of the information and evidence available.
 
AXA have indicated they would reconsider Miss Bs case (and any additional refund) if she 
can provide evidence her policy with L included the same additional elements of cover as 
her policy with AXA. I think this is reasonable.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman