DRN-3944577
The complaint
Mr P complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund the money he 
lost in a scam.
What happened
Mr P says he met an individual Ill call J on social media, and they messaged two or three 
times a week for over a year, during which time they developed a friendship. The 
relationship wasnt romantic, and Mr P and J never met.  J told Mr P that her partner was 
controlling and abusive. 
Mr P says he no longer has all his messages with J. He said his phone was water damaged 
and then that he blocked J and deleted all messages as he was so frustrated by what 
happened. But Mr P has been able to provide some screenshots of his messages with J 
around the time of the scam. 
On 19 April 2022 J asked Mr P if he would lend her money to enable her to get away from 
her abusive partner. J said shed pay the money back when she figured things out. As funds 
needed to be hidden from Js partner, Mr P paid funds into what he thought was Js mums 
account. Mr P made two payments on 19 April 2022, for £1,000 and £2,500.
After hed made the payments Mr P said J didnt update him. He contacted NatWest to say 
that he was the victim of a scam on 21 April 2022. NatWest considered Mr Ps claim but 
didnt agree to reimburse him. It said it provided Mr P with a warning when he made the 
payments, and that Mr P hadnt taken enough steps to satisfy himself that Js request for 
funds was genuine. NatWest contacted the bank that received Mr Ps funds and was able to 
recover £1,455.22, which has been returned to Mr P. 
Mr P was unhappy with NatWests response and brought a complaint to our service. He felt 
NatWest should have reimbursed him under the CRM Code and that it failed to protect him 
when he made unusual payments. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Mr Ps complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld on the 
evidence she had. She didnt feel that Mr P had built up a trusting relationship with J and 
said Mr P had transferred funds to someone he didnt know. The investigator also said that 
Mr P had no reason to believe that his payments to J would ensure she could break free 
from the abuse she said she was suffering. 
Mr P didnt agree with the investigators findings, so his complaint has been passed to me to 
consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
NatWest should have reimbursed Mr P under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it 
ought to have done more to protect him from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that: 
- The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code that do not apply to this case. 
Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of Mr P 
and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns NatWest has raised about the 
legitimacy of the transactions Mr P made are enough to support its position that it may rely 
on an exclusion to reimbursement set out in the CRM Code. I dont think Mr P had a 
reasonable basis for believing that the person he transacted with was legitimate and will 
explain why. 
Mr P has explained that hed messaged J for a while but didnt know any personal details 
about her because she was nervous about providing any information in case her violent and 
abusive boyfriend found out. So, when Mr P made the payments to J, he had no way of 
verifying if J was who she said she was or if he was providing funds for a legitimate purpose. 
In the circumstances, I consider Mr P took a risk based on the trust he had in J. 
Mr P never met J and says they struck up a friendship after communicating about gym 
related things. The only messages Mr P has been able to provide were from the time of the 
scam, so Ive not been able to consider how the relationship developed. But, on balance, Im 
not persuaded Mr P had a reasonable basis to believe J was who she said she was, and the 
payments were for were legitimate reasons, based only on trust after exchanging messages.  
The CRM Code says that where firms identify authorised push payment scam risks in a 
payment journey, they should take reasonable steps to provide Effective Warnings to their 
customers. Firms also have a duty to be on the lookout for unusual and out of character 
transactions in order to protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case I think NatWest acted reasonably in not intervening when Mr P made the 
payment requests, and I dont consider it needed to provide effective warnings either. I dont 
consider the payments Mr P made were so unusual or suspicious in comparison to his 
normal activity that they ought reasonably to have alerted NatWest to the possibility that he 
may be at risk of financial harm. 
The amounts involved were relatively low and left Mr Ps account with a healthy balance. I 
appreciate the loss is significant to Mr P, but Im mindful of the balance that needs to be 
struck between identifying potentially fraudulent payments and minimising disruption to 
legitimate payments. Whilst banks have obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act 
in their customers best interests, they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction.
Recovery
When a customer reports a scam to their bank, Id expect the bank to get in touch with the 
bank that received the funds to try to recover the scam payments as soon as possible. In this 
case, NatWest contacted the bank that received Mr Ps funds as soon as he reported the 
scam. The receiving bank confirmed some funds remained and these have been paid to Mr 
P. So I am satisfied that NatWest did what it could to recover the payments Mr P made to J.
Overall
I have a great deal of sympathy for the situation that Mr P finds himself in and am sorry he 
has lost money in these circumstances. But, for the reasons Ive explained, Im not 
persuaded NatWest has done anything wrong and so it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me 
to ask it to refund Mr P the money he has sadly lost.My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman