DRN-3195175
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs F have complained about how Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) dealt with a 
claim under their home emergency policy.
  
What happened
Mr F and Mrs F contacted IPA when they found their toilet was leaking. IPA sent a plumber 
who made safe the leak. Mr F and Mrs F said the plumber told them he would get a part 
and then return to complete the repair. However, IPA then closed the job as complete.
Mr F and Mrs F contacted IPA to discuss the claim. IPA said the policy was designed to stop 
the emergency, not to carry out a permanent repair. Mr F and Mrs F disagreed, but IPA 
declined to carry out any further work. So, Mr F and Mrs F arranged for the repair to be 
completed themselves.
When Mr F and Mrs F complained to this service, our investigator upheld it. She said the 
policy allowed for permanent repairs to be carried out up to the £1,000 policy limit and that 
IPA therefore didnt deal with the claim correctly. She said IPA should pay the cost to Mr F 
and Mrs F of arranging the repair themselves, up to the policy limit, and pay £150 
compensation.
As IPA didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
IPA said that as there was more than one toilet at the property, it only needed to carry out a 
temporary repair. It also told this service: As the situation the customer was left in having an 
alternative facility we do feel that this wouldnt constitute a home emergency. However, in 
my view, IPA seems to have confused two separate issues here. I havent seen anything to 
suggest that IPA thought the toilet leak wasnt a home emergency covered by the policy. It 
sent a plumber on the basis that it was a home emergency. The issue was what level of 
repair should have been carried out and whether, once the initial repair was carried out, it 
should have done more.
In terms of the repair itself, the plumbers record said he: Made safe for now as other toilets 
in the property. According to IPAs records it then closed the claim because: leak has been 
isolated and there are other toilets in the property. Checked and not covered.
Ive read the policy terms and conditions. These said:
We will arrange for a tradesman to attend the home and carry out the work necessary to 
resolve the emergency. If, following an emergency, a permanent repair is necessary, the 
tradesman will carry it out provided it can be effected during the visit and the cost does not 
exceed the policy limit.
I didnt read anything that said the type or extent of repair carried out to deal with a leak 
would be based on the number of toilets in the property. What the policy said was that the 
emergency itself would be dealt with and, following this, consideration would be given to 
whether a permanent repair could be carried out. So, the emergency also didnt need to be 
ongoing for a permanent repair to be carried out. But what the plumber seemed to do was 
carry out the minimum repair possible, because of the number of toilets in the property, and 
IPA then told Mr F and Mrs F they werent entitled to anything further under the policy.
So, from what Ive seen, IPA didnt deal with the claim in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy. In the plumbers notes, he also listed another repair that should potentially be 
carried out to complete the repair. So, I think Mr F and Mrs F lost out because of the way 
IPA dealt with the claim. 
Mr F and Mrs F arranged for their own plumber to carry out a further repair. So, I think IPA 
should refund the cost of any additional repair carried out to deal with the leak.
Ive also thought about compensation. Im aware Mr F and Mrs F said they felt like IPA was 
suggesting they were lying about what the plumber told them he would do about carrying out 
a full repair. I dont know exactly what happened here, but this situation wouldnt even have 
arisen if IPA had correctly dealt with the claim. Mr F and Mrs F also seem to have been 
provided with confusing information about what the policy covered and, in the end, had to 
arrange for the work to be completed themselves. So, as a result, I also think IPA should pay 
£150 compensation.
  
Putting things right
IPA must refund the cost of additional repairs to deal with the leak, up to the policy limit, and 
pay £150 compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I uphold this complaint. I require Inter Partner Assistance SA:
To refund the cost, up to the policy limit, of any additional repair carried out to deal with 
the leak, subject to Mr F and Mrs F providing IPA with suitable evidence to show this.
To pay £150 compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman