DRN-2695393
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that as Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) refused to pay her 
claim under her pet policy as she has used up all benefit provided for the condition of her 
dog, it then mis-sold her this policy, as she thought it was a life time policy. 
References to RSA include all its agents. 
What happened
Mrs M bought this policy in March 2018 following two telephone calls with RSAs agent 
discussing the type of cover provided. Mrs M bought a maximum benefit policy which 
provides a benefit of £7,500 per condition until it is all used up. Thereafter there is no further 
benefit for that condition, assuming the policy renewed if the benefit wasnt all used up in the 
policy year. 
Very sadly, her dog developed a brain tumour and required treatment. Mrs M claimed for this 
but on the last claim she put in, RSA told that as she used up all her benefit for this 
condition, it couldnt pay her claim.
Mrs M was under the impression she had bought a lifetime policy for her dog and that the 
amount of £7,500 renewed each year. RSA said this policy wasnt a lifetime policy and so 
her claim couldnt be paid.
Mrs M complained that the policy was consequently mis-sold. RSA disagreed so Mrs M 
brought her complaint to us. The investigator didnt think the policy had been mis-sold or that 
RSA or its agents had done anything wrong. But Mrs M didnt agree so her complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
I do appreciate and so understand that Mrs M will be very disappointed with my decision. My 
role is to see if RSA or its agents did anything wrong in the sale of this policy, in its 
telephone calls with Mrs M concerning the policy, and in the documents, it then sent Mrs M 
after she decided to buy her policy. And I dont think it did.
All pet policies are sold on what is called an unadvised basis which means RSA. or its 
agent were under no duty to advise Mrs M, which type of pet policy best suited her needs. 
That was for Mrs M to decide for herself based on the information provided. 
Further the pet insurance market sells all sort of different types of pet policies. Lifetime 
policies where your pet is covered for life whatever conditions they might develop. They 
would normally have an annual benefit level which renews every year. Other policies will 
only cover a condition for 365 days and then cover for that condition ceases. Other policies 
like this one, provide cover for a condition until you use up the amount of that cover and then 
cover for that condition ceases. And there are other policies which will cover vet fees if they 
were used in treating an accident or injury only meaning there is no cover for illnesses. So, 
there is absolutely nothing wrong with RSA selling this policy to Mrs M as Mrs M has alleged. 
RSA is perfectly entitled to sell this type of pet policy. Indeed, its also normal for the market 
to develop and so there is nothing wrong with producing different types of cover and 
limitations so a consumer such as Mrs M has even more choice to decide what is the right 
product and indeed right premium level for her needs. There is simply no question that RSA 
was trying to hoodwink Mrs M or take advantage of her in any way.
 
It is the consumer such as Mrs M, who decides which type of policy she wants. As I said 
there is simply no duty for RSA to advise her on which might be best for her. 
 
RSAs only duty is to clearly describe what the benefits are in its policy. I consider on the 
documents it provided to Mrs M, it did this very clearly. This is because in the policy 
document which Mrs M received in March 2017, it mentions several of the types of cover I 
mentioned above. But nowhere does it say it provided a lifetime cover policy. 
Mrs M chose the Extra Cover option and her policy and welcome letter dated 28 March 2017 
clearly says her cover is the following:
Our Extra cover provides you with up to £7,500 of vet fees for each separate illness 
or injury your pet may need treatment for. Well pay towards these costs from the first
date your pet has any treatment and will continue to do so until your vet fee limit is 
used up [my emphasis]  so could be suitable for longer term conditions like 
Arthritis.
This doesnt say it was a lifetime policy. I think its clear that its benefit limit is clearly 
explained in that it only provides £7,500 worth of cover for a condition until that amount is 
used up. 
Mrs M had two telephone calls with RSAs agent before she bought the policy to discuss the 
policy and the premium amount. Ive listened to both of those calls. In the one dated 27 
March 2017, Mrs M phoned up to ask what the coverage meant as her quote was discussing 
two financial limits one of £4,000 and one of £7,500. The adviser clearly explained in the 
same terms as the policy documents which Mrs M went on to receive that it was a limit per 
condition. The premium amount was also discussed. Then Mrs M was directed back on line 
to complete her application. 
The next call recording was the next day because Mrs M said the quote that she was now 
looking at was much more expensive that it was the previous day. The adviser then decided 
to go through the features and benefits of the policy. Again, explaining it was a maximum 
condition cover. Mrs M did ask whether this meant it was a lifetime policy and the advisor 
said again it was a maximum condition cover policy, clearly explaining cover for a condition 
was only up £7,500. Mrs M then asked if this was year on year and the adviser clearly 
explained it would cover the condition for the next year if the amount wasnt used up. There 
was then some discussion between yearly or annual policies and this one and the adviser 
explained that if you had a claim for a condition and used up £500 in one policy year, she 
would still have £7,000 for the next policy year or whenever it was used up for that condition. 
And the adviser explained it wasnt a yearly or annual policy in that way.
I understand that Mrs M has listened to these call recordings herself and the investigator 
also discussed what was said and when, in greater detail than I will do here. With the benefit 
of hindsight, I can see that Mrs M was of the view there were only two types of pet policies available in the pet insurance market, annual ones which covered the condition for a year or 
lifetime policies which gave a benefit limit to be used each year whatever the condition and 
Mrs M most definitely didnt want an annual policy. But RSAs advisers never said it was a 
lifetime policy and nor indeed did the policy documentation say this was a lifetime policy. 
Within every insurance policy there is a whats called a 14 day cooling off period. This is 
required by law to allow the policyholder to read the policy documents and to have the 
opportunity to change their minds about wanting the policy, if they decide then its not the 
right policy for them. There is no penalty in cancelling the policy either during this time. But 
Mrs M didnt make any further contact during this 14 days cooling off period on the basis 
the documentation never said it was a lifetime policy. 
So, whilst I can appreciate there was a misunderstanding, my role is limited to assessing if 
RSA and its agents did anything wrong. And Im of the view that it didnt do anything wrong.
It repeatedly explained what cover its policy had on the phone to Mrs M and its 
documentation also clearly explained the limitations of its cover. Therefore, there is nothing 
to show me that RSA or its agents did anything wrong. 
My final decision
As I said, I do understand Mrs M will be deeply disappointed with my decision, but for these 
reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman