DRN-4519547
The complaint
Mr A complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Seat Financial Services (who Ill call
VWFS).
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint earlier this month. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
I dont think VWFS have been reasonable here and Im expecting to ask them to take some
further action. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr A acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our Service is able to look into complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier
of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into
account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr A. The car here was brand-
new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
The relevant legislation gives the business one opportunity to fix a fault that is present when
a car is supplied. There have been several, failed, attempts to fix the intermittent software
issues Mr A complains of and VWFS have now offered to allow Mr A to reject the car.
Theyve explained that in those circumstances, they will refund the unused portion of his
advance rental payment, and that they will provide a goodwill gesture of £380.16 which they
say is equivalent to a refund of 10% of Mr As finance instalments over the period of a year.
The fact that the car was supplied in an unsatisfactory condition is not in dispute and I wont,
therefore, consider that any further. What is disputed is whether VWFSs offer of redress is
fair and reasonable.
When a business agrees to reject a car and the finance is provided under a hire agreement
with no expectation or obligation of future ownership, we would expect the business to
provide a pro-rata refund of any advanced rental paid by the consumer. As VWFS have
offered to do that I dont think theyve been unreasonable in that regard.
Wed also expect the business to provide a refund of some of the rentals to reflect any loss
of use or loss of enjoyment the consumer may have experienced as a result of the fault.
Mr A says that their offer of £380.16 isnt sufficient. Hes provided a list of the functionality he
has lost during his period of hire and has explained that although the fault was intermittent, it
was present for about two thirds of the time.
VWFSs system notes show that Mr A complained to them about issues with the SOS call
system in October 2022. Email records show he was experiencing problems earlier than
that. He says the SOS call system failure started in October 2021 and has been present
intermittently since. Hes also explained there was a problem with the screen blanking out
from the start of his agreement and that he regularly had to reboot the system.
Mr A has explained that the SOS call system failure happens on all long drives and means
he cant use:
Satnav and route guidance.
Data and internet access (and privacy).
Hands Free Phone.
Music, media, and radio.
Air conditioning and temperature control.
Seat heating.
Autonomous parking assistance.
Lane following.
Speed sign detection.
Speed limiting.
Braking assistance.
Adaptive cruise control.
Android Auto and Apple CarPlay.
And voice controls.
I dont think a refund of £381.60 for problems that have, albeit intermittently, persisted for
much of his three year agreement, is sufficient to compensate Mr A for the lack of
functionality hes experienced. While hes clearly been able to drive the car and has
completed the mileage anticipated, I think his use has been impaired, and his enjoyment of
the car would have been impacted too. In those circumstances, I think a refund of 20% of all
finance instalments paid for the time hes had the car is reasonable.
Mr A has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to take the car back to the
dealership on several occasions, hes had to drive with distracting noises coming from the
SOS system, and some functionality stayed on and couldnt be switched off (e.g., heated
seats). He has also had to escalate his complaint to this Service when I think it could have
been resolved earlier. In those circumstances, I think VWFS should pay him £300
compensation.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to:
Allow Mr A to reject the car, collect it at no cost to him, and end the finance
agreement.
Provide a pro-rata refund of any unused portion of the advance rental paid. Add 8%simple interest* per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund 20% of all finance instalments paid in respect of the impaired use and loss of
enjoyment Mr A has experienced. Add 8% simple interest* per year from the date of
payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr A £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to his credit file in relation to this
issue.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest they must
give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if the consumer asks for
one.
Further comments and/or evidence
VWFS accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
Mr A explained:
The one point of detail I thought it would be wise to comment on is that the initial problems
were definitely connected to the non-performance of the SOS system. However even after 
the software was fixed to address this, as noted in the timeline I sent, the display freezing 
issues have continued and still to continue to this day.
Meaning the services noted in the judgement are still not accessible and the car continues to
provide no access to the functionality described. 
I believe that (the manufacturer) have attempted an over the air update as for a few days the 
display kept on asking me to update but I was unable to access the menus. It appeared to 
update itself but since then the display problems still re-occurred.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Mr As comments support the provisional view I had reached on this complaint. It 
seems problems have plagued him through his agreement, and it is therefore fair to apply 
the 20% refund to all finance instalments paid, as Id suggested. I dont think I have seen 
additional evidence that would lead me to change my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
My provisional decision, therefore, becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above, I uphold this complaint and to tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to:
Allow Mr A to reject the car, collect it at no cost to him, and end the finance
agreement.
Provide a pro-rata refund of any unused portion of the advance rental paid. Add 8%
simple interest* per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund 20% of all finance instalments paid in respect of the impaired use and loss ofenjoyment Mr A has experienced. Add 8% simple interest* per year from the date of
payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr A £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to his credit file in relation to this
issue.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest they must
give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if the consumer asks for
one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman