DRN-3382384
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy Fairmead Insurance Limited ( Fairmead) declined to provide a 
replacement retail voucher for a home insurance claim they settled in 2017. 
My references to Fairmead include their agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The key facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
Miss L hasnt complained about the way her claim was originally handled in 2017. So, Ive 
only considered if Fairmead acted fairly by recently declining to pay for a replacement 
settlement voucher.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
I appreciate it must have been very frustrating for Miss L to have lost her settlement 
voucher several times, only to later find it and discover it wouldnt be accepted by the 
retailer. But to uphold this complaint, Id need to be satisfied Fairmead have done 
something wrong and I dont think they have. 
Once Miss L received the settlement voucher, it was her responsibility to keep it safe 
until she had the opportunity to use it. Ive reviewed the copy of the voucher shes 
provided, and it says the expiry date was 10 September 2017. So, she should 
reasonably have been aware the voucher would need to be used relatively promptly 
and in any event by this date. 
Miss L has said she called Fairmead in 2018 asking for help with the voucher and 
they asked her to call back when she was in store and ready to use it. This 
conversation isnt reflected in the contact notes so it's unclear what happened. 
Fairmead also havent acknowledged it taking place. In any event, the advice 
appears to have been reasonable as if Miss L had called from the store, the parties 
would have been able to discuss the matter together and see if the voucher could be 
re-issued. Miss L has said Fairmead werent contacted again promptly after this 
conversation. So, I wouldnt reasonably have expected them to have done anything 
more.
Im satisfied Fairmead acted reasonably in May 2021 as Miss L explained the 
problem and they asked the retailer to re-issue the voucher. Unfortunately, the 
retailer declined this request. They said the voucher had long expired and due to a 
structural change within the business they no longer had any record of it. So, it 
couldnt be re-issued and the only way a new voucher could be provided was if a 
second payment was received. This conversation is detailed in Fairmeads contact 
notes, so Im satisfied its likely to be an accurate reflection of what they were told, 
and they took reasonable steps to try and help.
I know Miss L feels strongly that her settlement money has been stolen. I can 
understand why she feels this way and I appreciate this decision will leave her in a 
difficult position. That said, its not unusual for retail vouchers to expire and Fairmead 
paid for Miss Ls several years ago. The voucher also stated a clear expiry date and I 
wouldnt reasonably expect Fairmead to settle the same insurance claim twice. 
Finally, Im unable to consider how the retailer acted as they arent a party to this 
complaint and Ive no power to direct them to do anything.
My final decision
Miss L has my sympathies, but for the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman