DRN-3684639
The complaint
Mr M complains about Santander UK Plc and the termination of a call between them, which 
he feels was ended purposefully by the call handler.
What happened
Mr M had been in discussions with Santander for an extended period due to ongoing 
complaints that arose following his Data Subject Access Request. At the end of March 2022, 
Mr M called Santander again to discuss this and other questions he had about account 
access. But Mr M says this call was ended without his agreement by the call handler. Mr M 
was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr M was unhappy the call was ended without a satisfactory conclusion. He explained this 
not only wasted his time, but also caused him a financial loss as he needed to call 
Santander again at his own expense. So, he wanted to be reimbursed for this financial loss. 
Mr M also raised concerns about the length of time it took Santander to respond to his 
complaint.
Santander responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They listened to the recording of 
the call and didnt think there was any evidence that showed the handler terminated the call 
deliberately. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr M remained unhappy 
with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
While the complaint was with our service, Santander commented on Mr Ms issue regarding 
their complaint response, believing all complaints had been responded to within the eight-
week time period theyre allowed.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They recognised the call was 
ended mid-conversation. But after listening to the recording of the call, they didnt think they 
were able to say for certain that the call was ended purposefully by the call handler. Because 
of this, they didnt think it would be fair for them to say Santander acted unfairly, or that 
Santander should compensate Mr M for this. And our investigator explained our service is 
unable to consider complaints about a business complaint handling, as its an unregulated 
activity. So, they didnt think Santander needed to do anything more.
Mr M didnt agree. And he made comments about the quality of our investigators 
investigation, while also stating he had a copy of the call recording that showed the call was 
ended by Santander which he thought should be considered. Our investigator explained they 
had already listened to a recording of the call, so they didnt think this changed their position. 
Mr M remained unhappy, so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly what I can, and cannot, consider. I recognise Mr M has raised concerns about the 
way Santander handled his complaint and in particular, the length of time it took for them to 
acknowledge and respond. But complaints handling is an unregulated activity and so, falls 
outside of our jurisdiction and our remit. Because of this, Im unable to consider, or comment 
on, this aspect of Mr Ms complaint any further.
But I can consider Mr Ms complaint regarding the call, and its unexpected end. First, I want 
to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr M. I dont dispute his conversation with 
Santander ended unexpectedly, without receiving a satisfactory answer to the questions he 
raised. And I can appreciate why Mr M would assume this call was ended deliberately by 
Santander. So, I can understand why Mr M would feel as though he should be compensated 
for his loss of time, as well as the costs he incurred.
But for me to say Santander should do this, Id need to be satisfied they purposefully ended 
the call with Mr M. And in this situation, I dont think I can be certain they did.
Ive listened to the call recording Santander have provided. And I think its reasonably clear 
the conversation ended without Mr Ms agreement, as he was requesting an answer to his 
questions at the time. So, although I appreciate Mr M feels as though we should listen to the 
call recording he says he has in his possession, I dont think this would alter my decision as I 
would expect Mr M to have continued talking as he says the recording shows.
But I dont think this means Santander ended the call purposefully. There are several 
reasons why a call can disconnect, such as a technical issue or a loss of signal. So, for me 
to say Santander have acted unfairly, Id need to be satisfied that, on the balance of 
probability, the call was more likely than not ended by the call handler deliberately.
And in the run up to the end of the call, Ive heard the handler explain to Mr M that they are 
attempting to help his situation. And before that, Ive heard the handler place Mr M on hold to 
seek guidance on how best to answer Mr Ms questions and ensure he is speaking to the 
right person. So, throughout the call, I think the handler acted empathetically and fairly to Mr 
M and his situation. Because of this, I dont think there is any evidence available to me that 
suggests the handler did, or was likely to, end the call deliberately. And because of this, 
while I appreciate the inconvenience Mr M was caused, I dont think Santander need to do 
anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping for. And I appreciate he feels strongly 
about what he thinks is most likely to have happened when the call terminated. But it isnt my 
role to speculate, or say for certain, exactly why the call ended. Instead, its my role to 
decide whether I think Santander acted unfairly. And to decide this, Id need to be satisfied 
Santander deliberately ended the call. And I cant say they did so here.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 Josh Haskey
Ombudsman