DRN-3572271
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC did not do enough to protect him from the financial 
harm caused by an investment scam company.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr C complains he was the victim of an investment scam. He was in contact with a company 
Ill refer to as T and, between 28 October 2020 and 1 December 2020, he made 8 separate 
payments to T using his VISA debit card. The payments took place between 28 October 202 
and 1 December 2020 and totalled £18,850.
Believing hed been the victim of a scam, Mr C contacted Lloyds to tell it he wanted it to 
refund the money hed paid to T. But Lloyds said hed willingly made the payments and it 
was unable to treat the payments as fraudulent. It told him it had tried to request a refund via 
the chargeback scheme, but there was no valid basis it could make the request through the 
scheme rules. It suggested Mr C could complain about the company to the Trading 
Standards Agency.
Mr C wasnt satisfied and so he complained to Lloyds, arguing that if it had looked at the 
wider circumstances surrounding the disputed transactions, his loss could have been 
prevented. He said T had deceived him into transferring money for investment returns that 
were never delivered and that he wanted Lloyds to refund the payments hed made to T and 
for it to request a refund via the chargeback scheme.
Lloyds accepted there had been delays in responding to the complaint, offering him £40 
compensation. But it maintained Mr C had willingly made payments to T over a few months 
and it couldnt refund those payments or request a refund via the chargeback scheme.
Mr C remained dissatisfied and so he complained to this service, but our investigator didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. He said these were authorised payments and there 
were no adverse regulatory warnings about T. T was registered with Cyprus Securities and 
Exchange Commission (CySEC) as an investment firm authorised to provide investment and 
ancillary services. He concluded there was strong evidence that T had not been identified as 
a fraudulent company at the time Mr C made the disputed transactions or that it was 
operating as a scam. He added that there was no evidence Mr C was not of sound mind or 
incapable of making investment decisions when he made the transactions and as Lloyds 
wasnt under a duty to give investment advice, he didnt think it had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by not intervening to ask questions about the transactions.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with the outcome of his complaint and asked for it to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. Hes pointed out that banks are required to monitor accounts and payments to 
detect and prevent investment fraud. This might include contacting customers if it suspects a 
payment is being made to an investment fraudster and building up a watch list for investment 
fraud, including information from sources such as IOCSO (the International Organization of 
Securities Commissions) and the FCA (the UK Regulator).
He has suggested the payments made to T shouldve been flagged as a suspicious 
transactions because they were a payment or series of payments to a new payee and that 
Lloyds failed to implement appropriate safeguards.
He has also argued he is the victim of a misrepresentation because the goods or services 
werent supplied as described, therefore Lloyds should have requested a refund via the 
chargeback scheme. And he has said that even though T has a license from CySEC, it is a 
scam company as they are not authorised by FCA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that the payments were authorised by Mr C. This is because they were 
made by him using the legitimate security credentials provided to him by Lloyds. Mr C 
believes hes entitled to a refund because, even though he authorised the payments, he was 
the victim of a scam and Lloyds should have either done more to stop that happening or to 
help him get the money back.
Was there a scam?
Banks have various and long-standing obligations (many of which Mr C has correctly 
highlighted) to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests. But 
these are predicated on there having been a fraud or scam. So, my first consideration must 
be whether T was operating a scam as Mr C alleges.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered this, but Im not persuaded that at the relevant time T was operating 
a scam. I say this as at that time it was regulated by the Cyprus Securities and Exchange 
Commission (CySEC). It also had passporting rights through the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA)  which meant it could offer its services to UK customers as recorded on 
FCA website. The services being offered may have been high risk and I accept Mr Cs 
testimony that its likely there were some questionable sales and marketing techniques. But 
that doesnt in itself mean T was operating a scam. 
Crucially, there are no warnings on either the FCA or the IOSCO websites, and certainly 
none within a month of any of the transactions. Ive considered whether any of the other 
circumstances Mr C has described indicate T was operating as a scam and I dont think they 
do. Consequently, Im not satisfied Mr C has shown he was the victim of a scam and so 
Lloyds was under no obligation to intervene with the purpose of preventing a fraud or scam. 
ChargebackChargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess 
Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated card 
issuer (i.e. Lloyds) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to present) 
a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr C).
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme and Lloyds is bound by the card scheme operators (Visa 
in this case) rules. Being the victim of a scam doesnt automatically entitle the payer to a 
refund through the chargeback scheme. Lloyds has said it didnt raise a chargeback 
because there was no valid basis upon which to make a chargeback request. Mr C 
disagrees, arguing he was the victim of a misrepresentation by T. As this was an investment 
trading dispute, the only applicable misrepresentation option for Lloyds would have been if 
he was unable to withdraw available funds from his trading platform. But its not just enough 
to be unable to withdraw available funds, Mr C would have needed to have provided dated 
evidence that he had funds available in his trading account on the day he requested them. I 
dont see that he had this evidence and therefore, I dont think there was a reasonable 
chance of a chargeback succeeding based on misrepresentation and so Lloyds not raising a 
request is a reasonable exercise of its discretion.
Compensation
Lloyds has offered to pay Mr C £40 compensation for the time it took to investigate the 
complaint and Im satisfied thats fair.
Overall, Im sorry to hear Mr C lost such a significant amount of money. But for the reasons 
Ive explained I dont think Lloyds is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman