DRN-2750368
The complaint
 Mrs S, Miss S and Mr S complain that Hastings Insurance Services Limited provided poor 
advice when they wanted to buy motor insurance policies through it.   
What happened
As the facts are well-known to the parties, I wont repeat them here. The dispute is centred 
on the compensation, so Ill focus on the reasons for my view about that.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hastings accepted early on that Mrs S wasnt given the right advice when she called it to 
arrange new cover for herself, Mr S and Miss S on 1 August 2020. The advisor didnt tell her 
that only two cars could be put on a multi-car policy at the time, or that they had to be kept at 
the same address. Had he done so (or had a senor colleague made a timely intervention) 
Mrs S would have been saved a great deal of time and effort, and she and Mr S would have 
retained their original no claims discount start date. Mrs S would also have avoided the 
frustration of being told two days later what she should have done, by an advisor she found 
patronising, when she was sure shed followed Hastings original advice.
I think Hastings fell far short of the standard of service that Mrs S, Mr S and Miss S could 
have expected, but I also think it made a fair effort to put matters right. It apologised and 
didnt charge for the cancellation of Mrs S and Mr Ss two old policies, or for arrangement 
fees. I cant be sure what the difference in premium would have been between the policies 
Mrs S bought and those she would have bought had Hastings service been better. But I 
think it acted reasonably by taking 10% off the premium for all three new policies, when that 
discount could only have been applied to two cars had she got a multi-car policy. 
In my opinion, the extra £75 proposed by the investigator for distress and inconvenience (on 
top of Hastings £150 offer) is appropriate, as the overall sum is in line with the sum Id have 
required it to pay. The investigator has already explained that we dont require insurers to 
provide free future cover as part of our remedies, which is what Mrs S thinks would be fair.
Hastings disagrees with the increase in compensation and says it gave Mrs S the chance to 
have a multi-car policy later on, which Ive taken into account. But I can see why she didnt 
want to engage in the process at that point, given the amount of frustration shed faced so 
far and the avoidable time and effort shed already put in. So I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for Hastings to pay £225 compensation in total for distress and inconvenience.   
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Hastings Insurance Services 
Limited to pay Mrs S a further £75 compensation (£225 in total).  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S, Miss S and Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman