DRN-2386230
The complaint
Mr M complains that a caravan he took under a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse 
Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In June 2018 Mr M acquired a caravan under a hire purchase agreement which was to run 
for a little over three years. The agreement recorded that the cash price of the caravan was 
a little under £7,000 and that Mr M paid a deposit of £150. He was then to make monthly 
payments of a little over £200. 
Just over a year later, Mr M contacted Black Horse to say that there were problems with the 
caravan. Specifically, he said that there was damp in the flooring. Black Horse initially said 
that there had been no such issues at the time of delivery, but an inspection indicated that 
there was a significant damp problem. 
Mr M indicated that he wanted the caravan to be repaired. The cost of doing that, however, 
meant that it was uneconomical. Black Horse agreed that Mr M could reject the caravan  
that is, he could give it back and make no further payments. 
Mr M agreed to return the caravan, but thought that Black Horse should also return the 
payments hed made under the hire purchase agreement. Black Horse agreed to return the 
deposit Mr M had paid, together with interest at 8% a year, and to pay him £400 in 
recognition of the distress hed suffered and the inconvenience to which hed been put. He 
referred the case to this service. 
Two of our investigators considered the complaint. The first thought that Black Horse should 
refund 20% of all monthly payments Mr M had made  in addition to the existing offer. 
Neither Black Horse nor Mr M accepted that proposal. The second investigator noted that 
Black Horse had refunded the deposit (with interest) and paid Mr M a further £400. She 
recommended that, in addition, Black Horse should refund any monthly payments from July 
2019; Mr M hadnt had the use of the caravan after that date. 
Mr M didnt accept that proposal either. Having acquired a caravan that wasnt of satisfactory 
quality, he thought he should receive a full refund of all the payments hed made. Black 
Horse didnt respond the second investigators view, and so the case has been passed to 
me for review.              
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator did, and for 
similar reasons. 
As the second investigator explained, it was an implied term of the hire purchase contract 
that the caravan would be of satisfactory quality. That expression includes fitness for 
purpose and durability. Even though the caravan was 14 years old when Mr M acquired it, 
within a year it had developed a damp problem so serious that it couldnt be economically 
repaired. In my view, thats a strong indication that it wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
I must therefore consider how that should be put right. I dont believe it would be fair to 
require Black Horse to refund all the payments Mr M made under the agreement. He did, 
after all, have use of the caravan for a year.
Mr M did however make monthly payments in July, August and September 2019  after he 
was unable to use the caravan. I agree with the investigator that these should be refunded, 
since Mr M paid for something he couldnt use because of its condition. He should also 
receive interest on those payments at the contractual rate in the hire purchase agreement, 
since that broadly represents the cost to him of being without those funds. 
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mr Ms complaint in full, Black Horse Limited should 
refund all payments made under the hire purchase agreement on or after 1 July 2019, 
together with interest at the contractual rate from the date of payment to the date of the 
refund.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman