DRN-3620701
The complaint
Mrs H has complained to Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) about the difficulties 
experienced when trying to use her account.
Mrs H has been diagnosed with a form of dementia. A lasting power of attorney (LPA) is in 
place and Mrs S, her daughter, is one of the attorneys. Mrs S brings this complaint on behalf 
of Mrs H.
What happened
Mrs S opened a Self Select ISA for Mrs H via the online service on 12 January 2020. She 
created a regular subscription of £1,000 at the same time, to be invested in a Vanguard 
fund.
In June 2020 Mrs S complained to HSDL. She said shed been trying to
transfer ISA accounts from other providers to the Self Select ISA. And she asked how she 
could access the ISA in her name, reflecting her role as Mrs Hs representative.
HSDL explained that the LPA had been registered with the Halifax Banking Group before the 
Self Select ISA had been opened. And so they werent aware of it until Mrs S had raised the 
complaint. The complaint handler arranged for the relevant forms to be sent to Mrs S so the 
records could be updated. And she offered to send Mrs S £80 for the inconvenience caused 
to her. Mrs S didnt accept the offer and referred her complaint here. A complaint about 
Halifax Bank has been dealt with separately.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. She found that Mrs H should 
be compensated for the delay in registration of the power of attorney in the sum of £150. 
She also found that and that monies should have been invested sooner than they were. She 
found that Mrs H had lost out on investment opportunities.
HSDL didnt provide any information in response to numerous requests from this service. In 
response to the investigators view it said that in the event of an account being restricted, 
HSDL would continue to collect the regular subscription as scheduled. However when a 
restriction is in place on an account no trading is allowed, meaning that any scheduled 
regular investment plans would fail. The restriction would be lifted when Mrs H called 
advising that she wished to trade.
Mrs S accepted the recommendations in the view on behalf of Mrs H.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that there was some misunderstanding when Mrs S tried to register the LPA. HSDL 
confirms that once an LPA is received into the Halifax Bank centralised unit notifications are 
sent to all areas of the business where the customer holds accounts. Although Mrs S 
registered the LPA with the banking arm in December 2019, the Self Select ISA wasnt 
opened until 12 January 2020. Accordingly HSDL didnt receive the notification and were 
unaware of the LPA until Mrs S raised the issue in June 2020. I dont find that HSDL were at 
fault up to this point.
The LPA was registered with effect from 14 July 2020. Mrs S advised that she didnt want 
the account to be restricted. But things didnt run smoothly. Mrs S said HSDL advised her to 
attend a branch and cancel the regular payment. This then resulted in her being unable to 
transfer funds directly, and it took numerous calls to different departments over several 
weeks to try and resolve the problem. Mrs S said she was then advised she could only trade 
by phone; it was only some time later, after speaking to one of HSDLs agents, that she was 
advised she could trade online.
I find that the time taken by Mrs S in sorting this matter out would have impacted directly on 
Mrs H, as Mrs S had less time available to spend with her and care for her. I therefore find 
compensation is payable to Mrs H and Im satisfied the sum of £150 is fair in the 
circumstances.
ISA transfers and regular investments
I accept that when Mrs S set up the account she asked for Mrs Hs existing ISAs to be 
transferred from other providers to HSDL. It seems HSDL wrote to Mrs H asking for more 
information but Mrs S didnt see this correspondence as it was addressed to Mrs H. The 
transfers were delayed  but on the information before me I cant say that there would have 
been a loss as the transfers were done in-specie; therefore were invested throughout.
Nevertheless Im satisfied on the information Ive seen that there was a failing on HSDLs 
part with regard to the regular investment that Mrs S set up on the account. I should 
emphasise that HSDL has not answered questions posed by our investigator so the 
evidence is limited. That said, I have no cause to doubt Mrs Ss credibility. 
Mrs S set up a scheduled subscription of £1000 and chose for this to be invested in a 
Vanguard fund. It seems that the subscription was generally invested but that in March 2020 
the scheduled subscription of £1500 wasnt invested until 29 May 2020. I find its likely that 
that Mrs H would have lost out due to this delay. This loss would be quantifiable and Mrs H 
should be compensated as set out below.
A further scheduled subscription in June 2020 wasnt invested  but this may have been 
because the LPA had not been registered. It was invested with the July subscription. August 
and September subscriptions of £1500 each werent invested either although it seems likely 
that the instruction was still in place. 
When Mrs S realised what had happened she invested the monies in a different fund. It 
follows that it is not possible to say exactly what her loss might have been regarding these 
investments. But like our investigator I am satisfied that she missed out on an investment 
opportunity for which she should be compensated. I find that £200 is fair compensation.
I have no power to make any award to Mrs S, although I accept that she suffered 
inconvenience.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Halifax Share Dealing Limited to:
Pay Mrs H £350 in compensation
Compare the unit price for the Vanguard Investments UK Ltd Lifestrategy 60 
Percentage Equity Accumulation fund on 22 March 2020 to the unit price on 29 May 
2020; if theres a loss due to the late purchase, HSDL should credit Mrs Hs account 
with the appropriate units.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman