DRN-4106164
The complaint
Ms W and Mr W have complained about information recorded on their credit files by 
Barclays Bank UK Plc in relation to mortgage repayments. To settle the complaint, they 
would like Barclays to correct their credit files and pay compensation.
Mr W has dealt with the complaint on behalf of both parties.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Ms W and Mr W being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Ms W and Mr W had a mortgage with Barclays (which they have since redeemed). In 2020 
they entered into a payment holiday, which Barclays incorrectly reported on their credit files 
as missed payments. Barclays has now acknowledged that, due to the pandemic, the 
missed payments should have been recorded differently.
After the complaint was raised with our service, Barclays agreed to amend Ms W and Mr Ws 
credit files. This would show the following:
April 2020  OK (COVID HOLIDAY PERIOD)
May 2020  OK (COVID HOLIDAY PERIOD)
June 2020  OK (COVID HOLIDAY PERIOD)
July 2020  OK (COVID HOLIDAY PERIOD)
August 2020  OK (COVID HOLIDAY PERIOD)
September 2020  OK (COVID HOLIDAY PERIOD)
October 2020  AR  FOR ARANGEMENT
November 2020  AR  FOR ARANGEMENT
December 2020  AR  FOR ARANGEMENT
January 2021  AR  FOR ARANGEMENT
February 2021  AR  FOR ARANGEMENT
March 2021  AR  FOR ARANGEMENT
April 2021  ARREARS WITH NO ARRANGEMENT
May 2021  AR  FOR ARANGEMENT
June 2021  AR  FOR ARANGEMENT
July 2021  AR  FOR ARANGEMENT
August 2021  AR  FOR ARANGEMENT
September 2021  AR  FOR ARANGEMENT
October 2021  AR  FOR ARANGEMENT
November 2021  AR  FOR ARANGEMENT
December 2021  AR  FOR ARANGEMENT
January 2022  AR  FOR ARANGEMENT
February 2022  AR  FOR ARANGEMENT
March 2022  AR  FOR ARANGEMENT
April 2022  AR  FOR ARRANGEMENT
May 2022  AR  FOR ARANGEMENT
June 2022 - AR  FOR ARANGEMENT
July 2022 - AR  FOR ARANGEMENT
Barclays also said it would pay compensation of £200. The investigator thought this was a 
fair resolution to the complaint, as it was an accurate representation of the account conduct, 
and the compensation was fair and reasonable.
Ms W and Mr W werent happy with this. Mr W said that the compensation offered hadnt 
taken into account the significant impact on his mental health. Mr W also said that, after he 
and Ms W decided to re-mortgage to a new lender, Barclays caused delays with that 
application. Mr W said that he and Ms W had to make payments to Barclays for three 
months whilst the application was delayed. This cost them £8,200, and they want this 
reimbursed.
The investigator looked at this and obtained information from the new lender about why the 
application to it had taken so long. She was satisfied that this was because that lender had 
wanted further information, and that this wasnt anything to do with Barclays. 
Mr W asked for an ombudsman to review the investigators findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Barclays has accepted it made a mistake, I dont need to analyse what happened 
in order to determine whether or not the bank is at fault; all I need to do is to decide what 
Barclays needs to do to put things right.
Im satisfied that the amendment to Ms W and Mr Ws credit files proposed by Barclays will 
now give an accurate reflection of what happened on their mortgage account. The payment 
holiday during the pandemic should not have been reported as missed payments. There was 
also a month where no arrangement to pay was in place, but after that an arrangement was 
put in place. Im satisfied that the banks offer to put things right reflects the true position on 
the account. I therefore dont require Barclays make any further adjustment in the way it has 
agreed to amend the information recorded with the credit reference agencies.
In late May 2022 Ms W and Mr W applied through their independent financial adviser for a 
new mortgage from another lender. On 7 September 2022 a mortgage offer was issued for 
£324,695. 
Mr W says that delay by Barclays and inaccurate information on his and Ms Ws credit files 
meant that the application took far longer than it needed to, as a result of which they ended 
up paying more to Barclays between June-September 2022 inclusive. Mr W says this has 
cost him them additional £8,200. So Ive looked at whether there was delay in the application 
that can be attributed to Barclays.
I can see that the new lender confirmed on 30 May 2022 that it required evidence to show 
the account was up-to-date with no missed payments in the previous 12 months. I also note that Ms W and Mr Ws credit cards were also in payment arrangements, and the 
lender required an explanation for this too. The broker told the new lender that Ms W and 
Mr W were borrowing more than the amount needed to redeem the Barclays mortgage in 
order to cover debt consolidation.
On 3 August 2022 the lender asked for evidence: 
that the new contractual payments have been made over the last 12 months. We 
need evidence of what the new agreed payments were with Barclays so ideally we 
need a copy of an email/letter from Barclays at the time confirming what the new 
payments agreed were. We also need a 12 month payment profile for the mortgage 
showing all new agreed payments made for the last 12 months (we do have one on 
file but this is only covers up to September 2021). If we can get this we should be 
able to proceed on the basis that the new agreed payments were made over the last 
12 months
On 5 August 2022 the new lender said to the broker that:
 we require evidence of May, June & July 2022 mortgage payments being made 
at £2651.81. On the basis that these months have been made in full we would be 
happy to proceed
On 9 August 2022 the new lender was still chasing this information, and required missing 
bank statements to show payments made to Barclays.
On 10 August 2022 the new lender confirmed there were still outstanding matters, including 
missing payslips, an unpaid valuation fee, a new credit search to replace one that had 
expired, and that the product Ms W and Mr W had requested had expired, so a new product 
would need to be selected.
By 19 August 2022 the purpose of the additional amount Ms W and Mr W were borrowing 
above the amount of the Barclays mortgage had changed  and for the first time the lender 
was told this was for home improvements. The broker was asked to provide further 
information about this. There was also further information required about adult children 
possibly occupying the property, and about planning permission for an extension. The broker 
was able to provide answers to these requests by 25 August 2022.
However  and relevant to this complaint  the lender was also satisfied by 25 August 2022 
that there was evidence on file for the 12-month period up to April 2022 that payments had 
been made to Barclays in line with the payment arrangement, and that the bank statements 
it required for May, June and July 2022 had also been received.
Im satisfied, therefore, that looking at the history of the application that it wasnt delayed as 
a result of any error made by Barclays; rather the delay was caused by other outstanding 
information the lender needed about other issues, which wasnt provided until the end of 
August 2022.
Im therefore not persuaded theres any basis for Barclays to cover the difference between 
the mortgage repayments made to Barclays and what Ms W and Mr W would have made to 
their new lender between June-September 2022 inclusive. Thats because Im satisfied that, 
for reasons unconnected with Barclays, its unlikely the mortgage would have completed by 
June 2022 in any event.Putting things right
Barclays has already agreed to correct Ms W and Mr Ws credit files. The bank has also 
agreed to pay compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience, which I think is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. Ive taken note of what Mr W has said about the effect 
on his health. However, we dont award damages in the way a court would, and so, whilst I 
acknowledge the stress he has been under, Im not persuaded the compensation should be 
increased.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank Plc to pay 
compensation of £200 and to amend Ms W and Mr Ws credit files as detailed above. I make 
no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman