DRN-2939981
The complaint
Mr S has complained about how AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) handled a claim for malicious 
damage under a commercial insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr S rented out a property. The managing agent for the property carried out an inspection 
and found some damage to the front door and some gates.  Mr S contacted AXA to make a 
claim for malicious damage. AXA asked for various documents to show the conditions for 
making a malicious damage claim were met. However, the claim was ultimately closed 
because the tenants were still in the property, which affected the ability to progress the 
claim.  
Mr S evicted the tenants. He then found a range of damage to the property, so contacted 
AXA to progress the claim for malicious damage. AXA again asked for a range of documents 
and, when these were received, appointed a company to inspect the damage. However, 
because of the time it had taken to reach this point, Mr S had already arranged for most of 
the damage to be repaired. Following the inspection, AXA declined the claim as it said the 
damage was caused by wear and tear, which wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr S complained to AXA about the handling of the claim. When AXA replied, it said it was 
appropriate to decline the claim, but accepted that there had been some delays in its claim 
handling and in responding to Mr Ss complaint. It offered £75 compensation for the delays.
When Mr S complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He said 
it was reasonable for AXA to decline parts of the claim, as it was likely some of the damage 
was caused by general negligence by the tenants. However, he said the broken cistern lid, 
broken or missing kitchen unit door and damaged front door were likely to be the result of 
malicious damage. He said AXA should deal with these items as malicious damage, but as 
there was no evidence to show the damage happened at the same time, each item should 
be dealt with as a separate claim. He also said there wasnt currently reason to decide the 
damage to the garage door, gates and fridge and freezer drawers were malicious damage, 
but if Mr S was able to provide further evidence, AXA should continue to consider these 
items. Our investigator also said that there had been delays in progressing the claim, but the 
compensation offered by AXA was reasonable to address this.
As Mr S didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 23 June 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint in part. I said:
Mr Ss policy included cover for malicious damage. The policy doesnt define malicious 
damage, but we would normally say it was where the person intended to do harm. The policy 
covered one-off insured events, rather than wider issues such as a failure by the tenants to 
keep the property in good condition. 
Mr S has complained that there were delays in AXA considering the claim. He said this 
meant he had to pay to repair the damage himself and that by the time AXA sent someone 
to assess the damage most of it had already been repaired, so hadnt been able to assess 
the condition the property was left in by the tenants. So, Ive looked at whether there were 
avoidable delays. 
After Mr Ss tenants moved out, he contacted AXA to progress the claim. AXA asked for a 
range of documents as it needed to check whether the policy terms and conditions were 
met. Over a month later, Mr S sent some of the documents. A few weeks later, AXA 
contacted Mr S to say the quotes for the work he had provided werent in a readable format 
and that he still hadnt provided the formal identification proof. Mr S then re-sent the quotes, 
but still didnt include the formal identification proof. Mr S contacted AXA to check progress 
of his claim and was told he still hadnt provided the formal identification proof. A few weeks 
later Mr S forwarded an email to AXA that explained the identity checks carried out by the 
managing agent for the flat and that copies of identity documents were destroyed for data 
protection reasons. However, shortly after, Mr S provided proof of the tenants identities. 
AXA then reviewed the claim and arranged for Mr Ss property to be inspected. 
I can see this was a time-consuming process and that it took about five months to reach the 
point where AXA appointed someone to inspect the damage. I think there were points where 
AXA could have followed up on the claim sooner. But I also think it was reasonable for AXA 
to ask Mr S to provide the documents, to show that the policy terms were met, and it took 
some time for all of these to be sent. When all of the documents were received, AXA 
appointed a company to inspect the damage.
By the time AXA visited the property a lot of the damage had already been repaired. Mr S 
said he carried out the repairs because he needed to return the property to a rentable state 
as soon as possible. I can understand that, but it did mean that it was more difficult to 
assess the claim. Mr S provided photos of the damage and the person who carried out the 
inspection for AXA also took photos. Following this, AXA declined the claim as it assessed 
that the damage was due to wear and tear rather than malicious damage. So, Ive thought 
about whether this was reasonable.
I think that tenants being evicted could increase the likelihood that they would maliciously 
cause damage during the eviction process. So, Ive kept this in mind when Ive considered 
the damage. I can also understand, given the condition of the property after the tenants were 
evicted and the range of items that needed to be repaired, that Mr S thinks the damage was 
malicious. 
Ive read an inspection report from 2018 that described the condition of the property. The 
tenants who were later evicted lived in the property at that time. The report included a range 
of issues, such as:
Kitchen
Generally quite dirty
Blinds are very broken and tangled
Storage cupboard doors dark with dirt 
Lounge 
Walls are marked with pen and general scuff throughout 
Curtains are too heavy meaning curtain brackets are coming off walls and will probably 
fall at some point 
Master bedroom One of the curtain brackets has come away from the wall completely as either the 
curtains are too heavy or the tenant has used too much force
The blinds behind curtains are broken
Bathroom 
Generally needs a clean and smells of damp/mould although none has appeared on the 
walls as of yet
There are holes in the walls where a fitting (possibly a towel rail) has been either pulled 
out of the wall or was too heavy for the wall. The holes are not neat and have caused 
damaged to the wall so will need to be filled.
Bedroom downstairs/storage room
Walls marked 
Holes in walls from previous fittings
Garage 
Broken on one side and is slanting. Tenant claims that this was due to break in and all 
her items were removed from garage.
I think this report suggests a general lack of care of the property by the tenants and also 
some neglect. Im also aware that some of the damage Mr S claimed for seems to have 
been noted in this inspection report, which was carried out some considerable time before 
the tenants moved out.
Ive looked at all of the photos Mr S provided showing the issues he found in the property, 
even if I dont comment on them all here. This included items such as the curtain rail being 
pulled off the wall. Based on the inspection report, I think its more likely than not that this 
damage was caused by the curtains being too heavy, as identified by the managing agent. 
This wouldnt be considered malicious damage. 
Looking at the graffiti, in my view, it looks like a child has scribbled on the wall and also put 
stickers on it. That also wouldnt be considered to be malicious damage. Mr S said he also 
replaced the carpets because excrement was found on one of them. Carpets would normally 
be considered as contents and, from what Ive seen, Mr S only seemed to have buildings 
cover. But, regardless of this, there seems to be heavy staining on all of the carpets, which 
looks to have built up over time. So, I think the carpets were generally in poor condition and 
its likely Mr S would have needed to replace them anyway.
The photo of the toilet cistern shows that part of the top of it has broken off. I think it would 
require a fairly heavy blow to cause this damage, but I think its difficult to conclude that this 
was most likely malicious damage, particularly given the general lack of care the tenants 
seem to have shown more widely. I also havent seen anything that suggests to me that the 
damage to the kitchen cupboard was malicious damage, rather than the result of the lack of 
care the tenants seem to have shown for the property. 
Looking at the photos of the front door, these seem to show a large patch of damage around 
the door handle. Thinking about how this type of damage might be caused, I think its more 
likely than not that this was malicious damage. This is the only part of the damage that I 
currently intend to say that AXA should deal with. In terms of settling this damage, I 
understand that Mr S may have already replaced the front door. AXA would normally have 
the option to replace the door itself or to cash settle it for the amount it would have cost it to 
replace it. I havent seen anything that makes me think AXA needs to settle this in a different 
way to how it normally would. Im also aware that there is a £500 excess for malicious damage, so Mr S might wish to consider whether it is worth settling the damage for the front 
door under the policy.
Given the general lack of care that the tenants seem to have shown while they lived in the 
property, and the issues previously identified by the managing agent, I think there were 
always likely to be a number of issues and signs of neglect when the tenants moved out. But 
I dont think that meant it was malicious damage. Based on the evidence provided, I 
currently think it was reasonable for AXA to decline the majority of the claim for malicious 
damage, with the exception of the front door.
Mr S has also said AXA should pay for the loss of rental income. But given I think a 
combination of factors led to the delays in progressing the claim, which werent all down to 
AXA, and that the only damage I think formed part of the claim was the front door, I dont 
think AXA needs to cover the rent for the period that the property was empty. I also think 
AXAs offer of £75 compensation was reasonable to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the delays. So, I dont currently intend to require AXA to do 
anything further for either of these issues.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 23 July 2021.
Mr S accepted the decision, but asked for more clarity on the investigators view, which had 
said separate excesses would apply to each part of the claim.
AXA accepted the decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. Mr S asked for clarity on the investigators comment that a separate 
excess could be applied to each part of the malicious damage. This was because when the 
investigator looked at the circumstances of the malicious damage that he thought should be 
covered under the policy, he said there wasnt evidence to show that the damage happened 
at the same time. He said this meant they would be considered as separate events and a 
separate excess would therefore apply to each. However, to be clear, my decision is that 
AXA should only deal with one part of the claim, the malicious damage to the front door, 
which has a £500 excess. As highlighted in my provisional decision, given the excess, Mr S 
might wish to consider whether it is worth settling the damage for the front door under the 
policy.
  
Putting things right
AXA should settle the claim for malicious damage to the front door, subject to Mr S wanting 
to deal with this damage under the policy.  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint in part. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to settle the claim for the front 
door, subject to Mr S wanting to deal with this damage under the policy.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman