DRN-1132849
 
The complaint
 Mrs S complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Although the policy was sold by another business the complaint was set up initially against 
Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) as they were the underwriters of the policy and 
had accepted responsibility for these sorts of sales. So, the adjudicator sent out his view with 
the complaint set up against FICL. However, FICL has now transferred its insurance 
business to AXA France IARD (AXA). Therefore, the complaint has now been set up against 
AXA.
So, Ive only referred to AXA during this decision.
Background
Mrs S took out a store card in 1997. She was sold the PPI in connection with this card at the 
same time.
The PPI wouldve cost Mrs S no more than £1.50 per £100 of the monthly outstanding 
balance. And as I understand it, wouldve covered 15% of the monthly outstanding balance if 
Mrs S was off work sick or lost her job until the outstanding balance had been cleared. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld.
Mrs S didnt agree with our adjudicator and the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. I will go on to explain why.
Im satisfied Mrs S was eligible for the PPI based on her age and employment at the time of 
the sale. 
AXA had to make it clear to Mrs S that the PPI was optional and needed Mrs Ss consent 
before it could be applied to the account. Mrs S says she wasnt told that she was taking out 
PPI or that it was an optional policy.
I cant know for sure what happened during the sale and so Ive thought about what Mrs S 
and AXA have told us and looked to the documents from the time of the sale to help me 
decide what is more likely to have happened.In particular, Ive been given a copy of the credit agreement. This document has a section for 
PPI. I can see that the box to take PPI has been ticked. And it appears to me that if this box 
hadnt been ticked then PPI wouldnt have been applied to the account. By signing the form, 
Mrs S confirmed the selection. 
So, while I appreciate what Mrs S has told us, based on what Ive seen, I cant say that its 
more likely that PPI wasnt presented as optional or that Mrs S didnt choose to take it. 
From the information available to me and what I know of their sales practice at the time, I 
dont think AXA advised Mrs S to take the policy out. This means they didnt have to take 
adequate steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Mrs S. So, for example, they didnt have 
to ask about or consider Mrs Ss existing provisions or assess if the PPI was affordable for 
Mrs S.
But AXA did have to give Mrs S clear information so that she could make a proper choice 
about whether to take the policy out. I cant say that AXA gave Mrs S all the information as 
they shouldve about the costs/benefits of the policy or the main exclusions and restrictions. 
So, I have to go on and consider whether better information wouldve put Mrs S off taking the 
policy out. I dont think it wouldve. I say this because:
 
Mrs S cant recall if she was entitled to sick pay. In any event, the policy wouldve 
paid out in addition to any sick pay Mrs S may have received and potentially for a 
longer period of time. It wouldve covered 15% of her repayments every month until 
the outstanding balance had been paid off or she returned to work. And it wouldve 
provided the same cover if Mrs S lost her job. 
 
Mrs S didnt appear to have been affected by the more restrictive terms in the policy 
such as those relating to pre-existing medical conditions and unusual working 
arrangements. So, it seems like Mrs S could have made a successful claim under the 
policy if the need arose.
 
I havent seen any evidence which would suggest that the PPI was unaffordable for 
Mrs S.
 
Mrs S couldve cancelled the policy at any time without losing out financially if she 
thought she could no longer afford it or no longer wanted it.
 
So, based on what Ive seen, I dont think Mrs S was mis-sold this PPI policy. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint against AXA France IARD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman