DRN-3977922
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that when she made a claim on her pet insurance policy, Great Lakes 
Insurance SE deducted two excess payments.
What happened
Mrs P took out a pet insurance policy with Great Lakes in 2021. The policy was renewed on 
10 August 2022. In order to reduce the amount of the premium on renewal Mrs P agreed to 
pay 20% of claims made under the policy.
Mrs P made a claim for treatment her dog received in respect of a tumour on 6 and 10 
August 2022. Great Lakes deducted two excesses because the claim had extended over two 
policy years. After she complained to Great Lakes, it referred her to the policy documents 
which said that she would need to pay the excess every year. Mrs P thought as there was 
only one claim, she should only have to pay one excess. She also thought the policy terms 
regarding the excess were unclear.
Mrs P brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She thought 
Great Lakes had settled the claim correctly and that the policy terms were clear.
As Mrs P didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The treatment for Mrs Ps dog crossed two policy years.
Mrs P referred to the following wording in her policy:
We will pay up to £15,000 for all vets fees in any one year. This means that there is no limit 
according to the number of claims you make or the number of illnesses your pet suffers. 
Instead, claims will be paid until the £15,000 limit is reached that year.
When you renew your policy, the limit is reset so there is a new £15,000 to use again if it is 
needed. This is the case even if you made claims the year before. This means that valid 
claims can continue across years, as long as the limit is not reached.
I dont think this refers to the policy excess but rather the yearly policy limit. Further on in the 
policy below under the heading Your limits and excess it says:
You will need to pay your excess per year.
It went on to say that Mrs P had chosen to pay an excess of £69 and 20 per cent of claims. 
I think this was sufficiently clear that an excess is payable for each policy year. As the 
treatment spanned two policy years, two excesses were payable and in the case of that part 
of the claim that fell into the second year, a co-payment of 20 per cent of the claim. I realise 
the situation wouldnt have arisen if there hadnt been a short delay in treatment for reasons 
outside of Mrs Ps control. But its also something I cant hold Great Lakes responsible for.
I dont think Great Lakes has acted unfairly when it deducted the policy excess and co-
insurance share from the cost of the treatment in the second policy year. I also think the 
policy terms were sufficiently clear. So, I wont require it to do anything more in respect of 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman