DRN-3969085
The complaint
Mr H complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ), has rejected the claim he made under section 75 
and section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel 
system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier, creating an unfair relationship 
between him and Ikano.
Mr H is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In June 2017, Mr H purchased a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his 
home. Mr H financed the purchase through a fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano that was 
repayable over ten years, within the initial payment deferred for six months.
In January 2022, the CMC made a claim on Mr Hs behalf under section 75 and section 140 
of the Act to Ikano. The CMC said that the supplier had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mr H to enter into the contract and made Ikanos relationship with Mr H unfair 
on him.
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The financial benefits from the system would make it a self-funding system which 
would pay for itself through the income and savings it would generate. 
Ikano explained that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr H or that 
there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
The CMC then referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into what had happened and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
The CMC didnt agree with this. Amongst other things, it said that:
Mr H was told the system would be self-funding and the combination of the Feed-In 
Tariff (FIT) payments and savings would at least match the monthly loan 
repayments. 
Mr H says that the salesman was very pushy, there was no time to read anything and 
no detailed discussion about the content of the contract. 
The salesperson was likely to have been working on commission, providing an 
incentive to encourage Mr H to purchase the system.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75, and section 140 of the Act. 
Section 56 says that any negotiations between Mr H and the supplier are deemed to have 
been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Ikano. 
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit, 
meaning that if the supplier misrepresented what it was selling or breached the contract, the 
consumer can claim against the lender in the same way they couldve claimed against the 
supplier.  
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Section 140 allows the courts to consider whether a relationship between a creditor and 
debtor was unfair on the debtor, including looking at linked agreements, such as the sale of 
goods bought with a point-of-sale loan. 
Ikano had a duty to treat Mr H fairly when responding to his claim. So, I have the power to 
consider whether it did so and tell it to put things right if it did not.
Key documents
I think the key documents in this case are the credit agreement and contract. I have 
considered these alongside what Mr H has said in order to reach my decision. 
The contract sets out key information about the system, including its price, its expected 
performance, and estimated benefits. Im satisfied that it formed a central part of the sales 
process (as it appears to have been completed and signed during the sales meeting) and is 
therefore relevant, alongside Mr Hs recollection of the sale, when considering if there has 
been any misrepresentation.
The credit agreement clearly sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be 
charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly 
repayments.
Self-funding
Mr H says he was told the system would be self-funding in that the FIT payments and 
savings on his bills would exceed the monthly loan repayments. So, Ive looked at the 
contract to see if it said anything about this. 
The contract set out that the purchase price of the system was £7,000.00. It went on to show 
the estimated first-year benefits of the system as follows:I think the contract is clear that the systems purchase price was £7,000.00 and the total first 
year benefit was estimated to be between £256.42 and £355.19. This is much less than one 
tenth of the cost of the system, even before interest is taken into account. So, the contract 
seems to make clear that the system would not be self-funding on a monthly basis in the first 
year  even without taking into account the interest payable on the loan.
The signed credit agreement set out that the total amount payable if the loan ran to its full 
term was £9,008.17, and the monthly loan repayments were £73.60. 
I think it is clear from this that the system would not be self-funding, since the estimated first-
year benefit was insufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. 
Mr H says the salesperson was pushy, there was no time to read anything and  no detailed 
discussion about the contents of the contract. But the contract was only a two-page 
document and I think this, alongside the credit agreement, was an integral part of the sale. 
I think the figures on both documents would most likely have been discussed with Mr H. 
They were fundamental to what he was buying  being the costs and benefits of the system. 
The documents were both fairly straightforward and simple, with the relevant figures shown 
prominently and clearly. 
Overall, despite what Mr H has said, I think it is unlikely that the salesperson wouldve 
misrepresented the solar panel system in the way Mr H has alleged, while at the same time 
providing clear documents that contradict this. I have taken into account what Mr H has said, 
but I do not think his memory of events from many years ago is persuasive enough to 
outweigh the documentary evidence from the time of sale.
The CMC suggests the salesperson wouldve received commission completing for the sale. I 
dont know if that was the case. But even if it was, that would not necessarily mean that the 
system was misrepresented to Mr H. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mr H 
to enter into the contract for the system. And Ive found no reason to conclude that the 
relationship between Ikano and Mr H was unfair on him. So, I think Ikano acted fairly when it 
declined Mr Hs claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman