DRN-4108451
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs T complain that they were overcharged following the cancellation of their 
motor insurance policy administered by I Go 4 Ltd.
Reference to IGO4 includes its agents.
What happened
Mr T held a telematics motor insurance policy administered by IGO4 and underwritten by an 
insurer Ill call X. Mrs T was a named driver on the policy and has done most of the 
communication on the complaint. But for ease of reading, because the policy belonged to 
Mr T, Ill refer to him alone throughout this complaint.
While the policy was live, Mr T changed the vehicle three times. It was taken out with what 
Ill call vehicle A on cover. It was then changed to what Ill call vehicle B. But the same day 
Mr T changed his vehicle from A to B, he changed it back, from B to A because vehicle B 
wasnt ready for him to pick up. Around a month later, Mr T changed his vehicle again, from 
A to B. When the policy cancelled, vehicle B was the vehicle on the policy.
Mr Ts complaint relates to the fees hes been charged after the policy was cancelled. He 
thinks both X and IGO4 overcharged him for the change of vehicles.
The charges involving X have been dealt with in another complaint  so will not be 
addressed here.
Im also aware Mr T is unhappy with some of the data recorded by the telematics box. But 
this is a separate issue and doesnt form part of this complaint.
IGO4 said it had charged Mr T in line with its terms. It said it refunded him what it got back 
from X when the policy cancelled. And it said all the charges it applied were fair. It said Mr T 
changed the vehicle three times, but it agreed to only charge him for two changes.
Mr T didnt agree, he said he was only ever sent one replacement telematics box, and he 
had to fit that himself. So, he didnt think it was fair he was charged the change in vehicle fee 
 which included a new box and its fitting  twice.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ts complaint and recommended it be upheld. She thought it 
was fair that IGO4 charge one full change in vehicle fee of £120. But she thought it should 
only charge £35 for the other two changes combined, because no telematics box was ever 
sent or installed. She thought all the other charges applied at the point of cancellation were 
in line with IGO4s terms and were applied fairly.
Mr T didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it, Ill explain why.
Throughout the life of this policy, the vehicle was changed three times. Initially IGO4 
charged three change of vehicle fees of £120. This fee is clearly set out in the policy 
terms.
But in effect, Mr T only physically changed the vehicle once. One was in made 
preparation for a vehicle he didnt take ownership of at the time the change was 
made, and the other was to change it back to the vehicle he already had. And only 
one replacement telematics box was sent. This box wasnt fitted by an engineer and 
was instead installed by Mr T.
IGO4 already waived one of its £120 change fees, but that still leaves one remaining.
IGO4 has explained the fee isnt just for the box. Its said the fee also relates to 
migrating data, other admin, and charges it gets from a third party. Weve asked for 
details of this. But IGO4 hasnt provided it, stating its commercially sensitive 
information.
Our service is able to receive such information, and its important we do to make sure 
that businesses being complained about are treating their consumers fairly. We 
understand its commercially sensitive and wouldnt be able to share with the 
consumers  but its still important we see it.
Without that information, I cant fairly say its fair that IGO4 charge Mr T £120 to 
cover the two administrative changes in vehicle (the ones changed on the system, 
but didnt involve a physical change of vehicle)
That said, it is highly likely that some administrative work was involved in both these 
changes. But without evidence, I dont find it fair for IGO4 to charge more than £35 
for both these changes combined. This is in line with similar admin fees across the 
industry.
Im satisfied the other charges (cancellation fee and initial set up fee) applied by IG04 
are fair and in line with its terms.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. To put things right I require I Go 4 Ltd 
to
Reduce the amount outstanding on Mr Ts balance by £85. I Go 4 Ltd should also 
reduce the balance by whatever interest has been applied on this £85 during the time 
its been outstanding.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman