DRN-2936421
The complaint
Mrs S says the advice Whiting Group Limited (WGL) gave her about her pension provision in 
2002 was unsuitable.
Mrs S is represented by Fair Return Legal Services Limited (FR).
Mrs S received pension advice from Direct Pension Services Ltd. At the time of the events 
complained about it was an appointed representative of WGL, which was responsible for any 
of its acts and omissions. So to keep things simple, Ill simply refer to WGL throughout my 
decision.
What happened
WGL gave Mrs S advice about her pension arrangements in May 2002. It gathered 
information about her objectives, circumstances and appetite for risk. 
Mrs Ss objective was recorded as raising capital. She wanted to do this to clear personal 
debts, thus reducing her outgoings. And to undertake some urgent home improvements.
Mrs S was 53 years of age and single. She was employed as a team manager at a bank with 
an annual income of around £16,500. Its recorded that her income was only slightly more 
than her expenses. Mrs S owned her home worth around £168,000 with a mortgage of about 
£65,000 outstanding. She had an endowment policy which had a surrender value of around 
£74,000. She had personal loans of around £5,000.
Mrs S was a member of her employers pension scheme. She also had personal pensions 
with Legal & General (L&G) worth around £3,000 and Century Life with a value of around 
£33,000. Mrs Ss larger personal pension included protected rights worth about £13,000 
which she couldnt access until she was at least 60. But the remainder of her personal 
pension funds could be taken from the age of 50.
WGL advised Mrs S to switch her personal pensions to L&G. It recommended she should:
- Take 25% of the net transfer value as tax free cash from the non-protected rights 
element of the pension.
- Take a single payment as withdrawal income to maximise the Government Actuary 
Department (GAD) rate for the year from the non-protected rights element.
- To purchase an annuity from L&G with the remainder of the non-protected rights 
element.
- To invest the protected rights element through the new pension plan into two 
balanced funds with L&G.
These recommendations were accepted by Mrs S and the switch and associated 
transactions were completed.
In 2020 FR complained to WGL on behalf of Mrs S about the advice shed received in 2002. 
It had several concerns about what had happened, it said:
- She hadnt been informed about the alternatives to taking an annuity. And even in 
respect of the annuity, she wasnt informed about the different options. And she 
shouldnt have been committed to a level annuity, which didnt keep pace with 
inflation.
- She hadnt been informed about the alternatives to taking out a personal pension. FR 
said shed been exposed to substantial unnecessary fund costs which had impacted 
on her pension funds.
- WGL hadnt met the regulatory obligations placed on it at the time it gave Mrs S the 
advice.
WGL rejected the case FR had brought for Mrs S. It said the advice and recommendations it 
had given her were suitable. In summary it said:
In completing the fact-find, the client indicated that her main priority was to raise the 
maximum cash lump sum and this objective was repeated within the report and again in the 
letter received from the client.
The charging structures between different product providers were compared and alternative 
solutions to generate the required capital were provided to your client.
Your client was fully informed of the risks involved and she had numerous opportunities to 
raise any concerns which she may have had.
The recommended investment funds were suitable for a balanced investor and the 
performance was consistent with funds of this risk profile.
The Investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ss case. FR said Mrs S disagreed with his view, but it 
didnt offer any new evidence or arguments to support her position. So, her complaint has 
been passed to me to review and provide a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The events complained about happened twenty years ago. Memories can and do fade. And I 
dont have access to complete records. Where theres conflicting information about what 
happened and gaps in what we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to 
decide, on the balance of probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by WGL for Mrs S. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:- Principle 2 - which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly.
- Principle 7  which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of 
its clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like WGL. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mrs Ss complaint.
When I consider a case where someone has switched their pension funds, I look at their 
circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those wants or 
needs reasonable? And so, should the adviser have recommended the switch?
Each case is different, but Id expect the switch to be in Mrs Ss best interests to make the 
advice suitable.
In 2009 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), then the Financial Services Authority, 
published a checklist for pension switching that I think is still helpful today. It highlighted four 
key issues it thought should be focussed on:
- Charges - has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive than their 
existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?
- Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? This 
could include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a guaranteed annuity rate 
or the right to take benefits early.
- Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded attitude 
to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
- Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need for 
ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
Although issued after the advice given to Mrs S, this wasnt new thinking from the FCA  it 
was drawing out matters that were consistent with proper adherence to the principles.
Mrs S says she hadnt been informed about the alternatives to taking an annuity. And in 
respect of the annuity she took out, she hadnt been informed about the different options. 
Ive reviewed the suitability report WGL prepared for Mrs S dated 22 May 2002. I think there 
are failings in it. For example, it didnt set-out information about the availability of enhanced 
annuities. But as she was in good health and didnt smoke, this is unlikely to have been a 
material omission.
WGL did tell Mrs S the following:
With regard to purchase of a pension annuity with your pension fund, it is sometimes 
possible to shop around" to see if you can achieve a higher annuity rate, by utilising the 
Open Market Option. However, this is not something [WGL] provide. Should you require this 
facility you may wish to contact a company that specialises in this service such as [firm X 
which can be contacted by phone on xxx]The suitability report set out the different sorts of annuity that were available. For example, 
joint or single life; annuities where minimum payment periods were guaranteed, meaning in 
the event of death it would still pay out for a set period; and annuities that would escalate 
over time to take into account rising living costs. Each of these features came with a cost.
Mrs S bought a single life annuity, with a 5-year guarantee period and no escalation. This 
was WGLs default option. Given her circumstances and objectives - she was 53, single, had 
little headroom in terms of disposable income and wanted to increase her income  I dont 
think this outcome can be said to have been unsuitable. 
The funds Mrs S used to purchase the annuity werent her only pension provision. By taking 
part of her retirement funds as an annuity she was effectively spreading her risk. She had 
secured an income stream for life which would be unaffected by investment market 
performance and annuity rates (which we know with hindsight have eroded significantly 
since 2002). 
The real value of Mrs Ss annuity has eroded over time with inflation. But if shed bought an 
escalating annuity, the sum shed have received wouldve started from a significantly 
reduced base to allow for this. With additional pension provisions due to come on stream in 
future, including her personal pension, the pension she had with her employer and the state 
pension, by taking a level annuity her pension income has been smoothed over time.
Im mindful that Mrs Ss annuity was in payment from 2002, and it wasnt until 2020 that a 
complaint was brought on her behalf. Shed had no cause for concern during this period 
about the arrangement. I note the annuity cost Mrs S about £14,870. By June this year she 
will have received nearly £17,000 of benefits, with annual payments of about £847 to be 
made for the rest of her life.
Turning to the other main argument FR makes on behalf of Mrs S, it says the impact of 
charges on the personal pension established with her protected rights fund in 2002 has 
significantly eroded the value of her plan.
Ive reviewed the suitability report WGL prepared for Mrs S. And again I think there are 
weaknesses in it. For example, it didnt clearly set out the charges that would be made on 
Mrs Ss new fund and how these compared with her existing arrangements. Nor was there 
an exploration of a stakeholder plan where fees would be capped at 1% of fund value.
I note that stakeholder pensions tend to offer a modest range of funds, reflecting that they 
are the most basic type of pension. There are often fewer than 20 funds, including a lifestyle 
option, managed and with-profits funds, and limited access to externally-managed funds. 
The suitability report does reference various other documents that were provided to Mrs S as 
part of the advice process. This included a Key Features Document. This set out illustrations 
from the pension provider showing her benefits at normal retirement age, plus details of 
charges and what they were in respect of. So I think shed have been aware of the charges 
for the proposed pension plan.
I dont think Mrs S was experienced in pension or investment matters. Thats why she sought 
the advice of WGL. But she did have a role in the provision of financial services and so I 
would have expected her to have carefully read the information she was provided and to 
have had a better appreciation of the advice process than the average person, including 
anything she was signing.
Leaving aside charges on Mrs Ss personal pension, Ive havent seen anything from the 
available information that there were problems with the risk appetite assessment undertaken by WGL. Nor any issues related to loss of protections or benefits from her former plan, or 
ongoing fund management.
On balance, I think its more likely than not Mrs S hasnt been disadvantaged by WGLs 
advice concerning the personal pension plan established with her protected rights fund. I 
note that the amount invested initially was £11,433. Mrs S took her benefits in 2013 at which 
point this pension pot was worth around £24,795. WGL calculated this equated to a 
compound annual return of 7.28% (after charges).
Finally, Mrs S signed a limited advice letter on 22 May 2002, this included the following 
extracts:
I confirm having instructed you to effect a transfer from my existing pension arrangements 
so that I can take immediate retirement benefits obtaining my maximum Tax- Free Cash 
entitlement.
I am aware that this could detract from my potential deferred pension benefits and I 
understand that this course of action may not necessarily be in my long-term interest. 
However, I require cash with immediate effect for my present needs as set out in my 
Confidential Information Form. 
I acknowledge safe receipt of my Detailed Report & Recommendations from [WGL] along 
with Key Features Documentation from the recommended Pension Provider which confirms 
details of all charges in the new' contract and confirms payments that [WGL] will receive for 
transacting this business on my behalf. 
WGL has not advanced an argument that this communication shows Mrs S was an insistent 
client. Nor would I recognise it as such, given what Id expect if such a process were to be 
followed. However, based on what Ive seen I think it genuinely conveys her priorities. And I 
note the complaint shes brought doesnt seek to argue that she shouldnt have taken her 
tax-free cash.
Overall FR hasnt done enough to satisfy me that Mrs S suffered financial detriment because 
of the advice WGL gave her in 2002. And so I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman