DRN-3749996
The complaint
Mrs E complains that PSFM SIPP Limited (PSFM) failed to carry out due diligence 
checks when accepting her application for a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) in 
2011. She says it didnt carry out appropriate checks on the advisor who recommended 
the transaction, or on the investments to be held in the SIPP. Mrs E says the adviser 
was no longer authorised when he advised her to transfer her pension to a SIPP with 
PSFM.
Mrs E is represented by her (new) financial adviser in this complaint.
What happened
The parties
PSFM SIPP Limited
PSFM SIPP Limited trades as Punter Southall Financial Management SIPP. It is a regulated 
SIPP provider and administrator. It is authorised, in relation to SIPPs, to arrange (bring 
about) deals in investments, deal in investments as principal, establish, operate or wind up a 
pension scheme and make arrangements with a view to transactions in investments.  It is 
not and was not at the time of events in this complaint authorised to give investmentadvice.
The adviser
Mrs E says she was advised by a man I will call Mr H. He was registered with the Financial 
Services Authority (FSA), now the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), as an approved 
person. An approved person is a person the regulator has approved to do one or more 
activities, called controlled functions, for an authorised firm.
The FCA register shows Mr H was registered to perform the controlled function CF21 
Investment Adviser from 2005 to October 2007 and CF30 Customer from November 2007 to 
22 July 2010.
The register also shows that Mr H was approved to perform those functions at Openwork 
Limited which is an authorised firm, authorised amongst other things to advise on pensions 
and investments.
According to the FCA register Mr H was employed by a business called Henderson Stone & 
Co Ltd between 2006 and 22 July 2010. That business was registered with the FCA. And the 
FCA register shows it was recorded as an appointed representative of Openwork from 2005 
to 16 August 2010.
Henderson Stone was not itself authorised by the FCA, so it did not have any authority from 
the FCA as such.
In brief, only persons (which includes companies) authorised by the regulator may give 
regulated investment advice. This is referred to as the General Prohibition. An exception to 
this general rule is that an authorised person may appoint representatives to act for it and 
the authorised person must take responsibility for the activities it authorises the 
representative to carry out. In this relationship the authorised person is called the principal.
Henderson Stone & Co Ltd was therefore authorised by its principal, Openwork, to carry on 
the activities Openwork authorised it to carry out. And in turn Mr H was approved to carry on 
the controlled function CF30  which here means investment adviser  for Henderson 
Stones (then) principal, Openwork.
As I understand it, Mr H was suspended by Openwork, and not permitted by it to give 
investment advice, from 23 April 2010 until he resigned on 17 July 2010.
Mrs Es SIPP application was in Febraury 2011. 
The investment
The Resort Group
The Resort Group (TRG) was founded in 2007. TRG owns a series of resorts in Cape Verde. 
TRG sold hotel rooms to UK consumers, either as whole entities or as fractional shares via 
the ownership in a company. TRG was not regulated by the financial services regulator.
This case involves a fractional investment into property at TRGs Dunas Beach Resort.
As I understand it the total agreed price was about EUR 60,000. The price was to be paid by 
stages. Mrs E paid around £30,000 as a down payment from her SIPP. This means the 
pension bought membership of a limited company with the company buying promissory 
contracts to buy a suite at the resort.
As I understand it there have been difficulties with the Dunas Beach investments and legal 
completion has not taken place for some if not all properties. So (at least some) of the 
investments have turned out to be in what are now dormant companies with no assets. I do 
not know if that is the case with Mrs Es investment, but I understand it is illiquid and no 
value can be realised for it for Mrs Es pension scheme.
The relationship between Mr H and PSFM
PSFM has explained things as follows:
It does not have a record of the date of Mrs Es application to it other than the 
date on the application form. Mr H used to visit the PSFM offices personally and 
drop off documentation which he had completed with the client.
It had an introducer agreement with Mr H, but it cannot now locate it.
Although it cannot find the actual agreement completed back in 2010 it had a 
standard introduction agreement with financial advisers. And it provided a copy. 
(The copy refers to the regulator as the FCA but it was still the FSA in 2010 so 
the version that has been provided cannot be the exactly correct version but I 
assume it is the same in all material respects.)
The standard form agreement (in which PSFM is referred to as the Company) 
included the following:
oThe Introducer is either a Solicitor, Accountant, or is authorised and 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, with registration number [ ].
oThe Company wishes to appoint the Introducer to introduce Individuals 
to it who wish to enter into a Self- Invested Personal Pension operated by 
the Company.
oThe Introducer wishes to accept the appointment and has agreed to 
introduce individuals to the Company to enable those individuals to enter 
into a PSFM SIPP.
oThe Introducer accepts responsibility for the suitability of any advice 
provided to the Individual in respect of any Investments comprised within 
the PSFM SIPP in accordance with the requirements of the FCAs 
Handbook of rules and guidance.
oThe Introducer accepts that the Company does not provide any activities 
that could be construed as either advising on investments  or 
managing investments
oThe Introducer warrants and undertakes to the Company that:
It is, and for the duration of this Agreement will be, authorised 
and regulated by the FCA
In respect of FCA authorised and regulated firms it has the 
appropriate FSMA Part 4A permissions to provide advice to, or 
manage a discretionary investment portfolio on behalf of, the 
Individuals
It has full capacity and authority to perform its duties under the 
Introducer Agreement.
What happened  the events complained about
Mr H gave advice to Mrs Es husband. Mrs E met Mr H at her home in 2010 when he 
advised her husband to transfer his pension to PSFM and invest in the Dunas Beach Resort. 
Mr Es SIPP application was signed in July 2010. Mrs E says a few months later Mr H 
approached her direct to discuss her pensions. Mrs E says the first time they met to discuss 
her pension was in January 2011. Mr H gathered information about Mrs Es existing 
pensions and in early 2011 he recommended that she also transfer her pensions to PSFM to 
invest in the Dunas Beach Resort investment. Mrs Es application was signed in February 
2011.
Mrs E says Mr H was very enthusiastic about the investment and was emphasizing his 
qualifications and expertise as a financial adviser and that he said he had invested all his 
pension in this way as it was such a great deal.
Mrs E says Mr H told her this was the last unit left and that if she didnt give him a decision 
right away he would have another investor. She says she questioned him about what would 
happen if the resort was to suffer a natural disaster? What would happen to her investment? 
He replied that all necessary checks and due diligence had been done and it had been 
approved by the UK Government and therefore in the event of a disaster she would be fully 
compensated.
Mrs E says Mr H supplied all the forms and other documents to be signed by her with regard to the SIPP application some of which Mr H also signed as a witness. He then took all the 
paperwork away and dealt with its implementation. Mrs E says she did not sign any 
execution only forms.
Mrs E signed an application form for a SIPP with PSFM and a SIPP bank account on 7 
February 2011. The account application was witnessed by Mr H.
On 8 February 2011 Mrs E signed a supplemental deed relating to the SIPP. Her signature 
was witnessed by Mr H. He gave his occupation as Sales Adviser.
Neither Henderson Stone nor Openwork is referred to on any of the signed documents I 
have seen.
The SIPP was opened on 8 February 2011 and later that month it received transfers in of 
nearly £20,000 and around £11,000 from Mrs Es existing pensions and paid out around 
£29,000 in respect of the property investment.
Unlike in her husbands case, no IFA Fees were paid to Mr H from the SIPP account.
Income referred to as property income in the statement was paid into the account in 2015 
and 2016. I understand further income was paid until 2019.
In 2016 Mr and Mrs E were concerned about their pensions  it was costing them money 
each year and didnt seem to be making anything for them. They contacted a different 
financial adviser. He tried to find out what their pensions were worth and how he could 
transfer Mrs Es pension to a different investment. He discovered the investment was illiquid 
and could not be sold.
Mrs E complained to Openwork about the advice she had received saying the advice was 
unsuitable because the investment was high risk.
The complaint against Openwork
Mrs E complained to Openwork about the advice Mr H had given. Openwork did not uphold 
Mrs Es complaint. It said:
Openwork has no record of Mrs E as a client in relation to Mrs Es SIPP nor the
investment in Dunas Beach. Neither of those arrangements were available 
through Openwork.
Mr H worked at Henderson Stone and it was an independent contractor pursuant 
to a franchise contract with Openwork.
The Franchise contract authorises an adviser such as Mr H to act as an 
appointed representative of Openwork. He resigned as an appointed 
representative on 17 July 2010.
Openwork is not responsible for the acts and omissions of the adviser when 
acting outside that agreement.
Openwork authorises advisers to advise on only a restricted range of approved 
investments and services.
Mr H was no longer Openworks appointed representative at the time of the application.
Mr H was not authorised by Openwork to give the advice Mrs E was complaining 
about and it is not responsible for it.
Complaint against PSFM
Mrs Es IFA complained to PSFM at the same time as making a complaint on behalf of Mr E. 
The IFA initially said (incorrectly) that Mr H had ceased to be authorised in February 2010. 
He said this was before Mr and Mrs applications were introduced to PSFM.
PSFM issued its final response on 10 August 2016. PSFM said that Mr H ceased to be 
authorised by Openwork on 22 July 2010 which was after Mr and Mrs E were advised. It 
went on to say:
[Mr H] was responsible for the advice he gave to you to invest into the Dunas 
Beach Resort, which he provided whilst he was still an FSA Approved person 
(CF30). To facilitate this investment, as [your IFA has] stated in your complaint you 
then subsequently set up a PSFM SIPP. Our records do not have any evidence to 
show that PSFM SIPP paid [Mr H] an introducers fee for your introduction, 
whereas his introducers fee of
£322.65 for your husbands introduction was deducted from your husbands SIPP, 
or this introduction for which [Mr H] did not claim an introducers fee, happened at 
the same time your husband signed his PSFM SIPP application form on 19 July, 
which was before [Mr H] ceased to be an FSA Approved Person.
Therefore this evidences that PSFM SIPP satisfied the regulators expectation that 
it should only accept introductions from FSA (in 2010) Approved Persons, which 
Mr H was on 19 July 2010, and whose firm had the relevant FSMA Part IV 
permissions (which Openwork Limited had at the time and still does have).
Mrs Es IFA pointed out that Mrs Es application was in February 2011 which was after Mr H 
has ceased to be authorised.
On 11 August 2016 PSFM said
[Mrs Es] application form does not include any reference to [Mr H] as an 
introducer. Also unlike [Mr E] where there was a deduction from his SIPP to cover 
[Mr Hs] introduction fee, there has been no such deduction from [Mrs Es] SIPPP. 
Therefore on the balance of probabilities this would infer that either [Mr H] did not 
directly introduce [Mrs E] to PSFM SIPP, which would be supported by him not 
claiming an introducers fee. This is reinforced by the fact that none of Mrs Es 
SIPP Annual Report packs reflect [Mr H] as being [Mrs Es] adviser (under financial 
adviser details section it states No adviser recorded). Or if [Mr H] did introduce 
[Mr Es] application his fee was for a joint introduction to [Mr and Mrs E] which 
happened at the same time [Mr E] signed his PSFM application form on 19 July 
2010, which was before [Mr H] ceased to be an FSA Approved Person.
On 17 August 216 PSFM said:
Please can I reiterate that PSFM SIPP is a SIPP administrator, whose sole 
function is to administer SIPPs and they have never given any advice to any clients 
and I have not been able to find any evidence to the contrary that PSFM SIPP 
provided any advice to [Mr and Mrs E]. At the time of their introduction to PSFM 
SIPP by [Mr H], any advice was provided by him whilst he was an FSA Approve person working for Openwork Limited and this is where the complaint should be 
focused.
After Mrs Es complaint was referred to The Financial Ombudsman Service, PSFM said:
We can find no evidence that [Mrs E] was introduced to PSFM SIPP by [Mr H], as 
inferred in [her IFAs] original letter of complaint dated 13 July 2016. There is 
nothing in any of the documentation completed in the setting up of [Mrs Es] PSFM 
SIPP to evidence that [Mr H] was [Mrs Es] adviser or introducer, and there is no 
evidence that he introduced [Mrs E] to PSFM SIPP Limited. Unlike her husbands 
PSFM SIPP statement  there has been no introducer fee paid to [Mr H] for [Mrs 
Es] SIPP.
While [Mr H] may have witnessed [Mrs Es] application form and Supplemental 
Deed; the Bank of Scotland PSFM SIPP application form states N/A against the 
IFA section, as does the PSFM SIPP application form under the investment 
adviser section. Therefore we can only assume [Mrs E] decided to come to PSFM 
SIPP directly based upon the fact that this is what her husband had previously 
done.
Alternatively if [Mr H] did advise [Mrs E] on this transaction when he was no longer 
an FSA Approved person without disclosing this to [Mrs E], this is concerning. 
However, such advice relates solely to [Mr H], previously employed as an FSA 
Approved Person by Openworkand has nothing to do with PSFM SIPP. Again I 
reemphasise there is no evidence to support the[Mr H] introduced [Mrs E] to PSFM 
SIPP. To the contrary, as stated above, unlike her husband, there was no 
introducer fee paid out of [Mrs Es] PSFM SIPP.
Our investigation
The complaint about PSFM was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of 
our investigators looked into it. He thought the complaint should be upheld. He made several 
points but in summary he said:
It was not PSFMs role to determine that the investment was suitable for Mrs E.
It was PSFMs responsibility to carry out checks on the introducer Mr H and the 
investment before deciding whether to accept or reject Mrs Es application.
Mr H was not authorised in his own right. He was an appointed representative of 
Openwork. As such he was only authorised to do the things Openwork had 
agreed to accept responsibility for. Openwork is a restricted advice firm meaning 
that it only authorised Mr H to advice on the limited panel of providers it did 
business with. PSFM should have known it was not on Openworks panel of 
approved providers and that Mr H was not therefore authorised to advise on its 
SIPPs.
PSFM should have realised Mr H was acting without authority and this should 
have been a serious concern to PSFM.
PSFM should not have accepted Mrs Es SIPP application. And this would have 
meant Mrs E would not have invested in the Dunas Beach Resort.
PSFM should therefore compensate Mrs H for the losses she has suffered. And 
the investigator went on to explain how he thought PSFM should do that.
Although the investigator did not say in express terms that he thought Mr H had introduced 
Mrs Es application it is clear that was his view and the basis on which he had drawn his conclusions.
PSFM does not agree with the investigator. Its lawyers made a number of points including:
There are no grounds for holding PSFM liable for Mrs Es losses.
The key piece of legislation governing this matter is the General Prohibition in 
section 19 Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. It provides that no person 
may carry on a regulated activity in the UK unless he is an authorised person or an 
exempt person.
PSFM fully understands the nature of the principal/agent relationship.
Mr H was on the Financial Services Register until 22 July 2010 and thereafter 
could not lawfully give regulated investment advice and Openwork was no longer 
responsible for his acts or omissions under their previous agreement.
If Mr H gave regulated advice in breach of the General Prohibition this was not 
known by PSFM at the time it accepted Mrs Es application.
The investigator referred to two examples of good industry practice for SIPP 
operators: confirming that intermediaries have appropriate permissions, and having 
terms of business with them.
A fair and reasonable expectation is that PSFM should check the Financial 
Services Register upon working with a new introducer and thereafter periodically. 
That is what it did.
There is nothing in the extract of the FCA publications referred to in the provisional 
decision that would require investigation of an appointed representatives principal 
beyond checking the register as PSFM did.
The terms of business agreed between PSFM and Mr H satisfy the second FCA 
point quoted in the provisional decision.
The investigator had not focused sufficiently on the issue of whether in fact Mr H 
introduced Mrs E to PSFM.
No introducer fee was paid to Mr H in respect of Mrs E while one was paid in 
respect of Mr E. It seems unlikely Mr H would make the introduction and then not 
seek to be remunerated for it. This is a key point which has not been considered  
if there was no introduction then Mrs Es complaint must fail.
Openworks refusal to accept liability for Mrs Es is entirely predictable on both 
legal and commercial grounds as a general point and no weight should be 
attached to this refusal. And specifically in this case because Mr H was no longer 
an appointed representative of Openwork at the time the SIPP application was 
made to PSFM and so there is no basis upon which Openwork could be held 
liable. Mr H breached the General Prohibition and Mrs E should look to Mr H for 
redress not PSFM.
The duty to pay due regard to the interests of customers and treat them fairly must 
be considered in the context of the contractual arrangements that Mrs E has with 
PSFM.
PSFM contracted with Mrs E as an execution only SIPP operator.
The analysis in the High Court decision on this point in Adams v Options SIPP UK 
LLP applies to PSFM and Mrs Es relationship.
It is no part of the investigators findings that PSFM should have advised Mrs E on 
the merits of his investment. PSFM provides an execution only service. This is a 
point of agreement with the investigator and is relevant to the question of what 
caused Mrs Es loss.
The advice from Mr H to:
osell regulated investments
oopen a SIPP with PSFM
oinvest in the Dundas Beach Resort projectconstitutes a single braided stream of advice to use terms from the TenetConnect
case.
In order to find PSFM liable two steps are necessary:
ofirst, to unravel the braid and separate out the advice to open the SIPP from 
the other two streams
osecondly, an argument has to be constructed that even treated in isolation, 
PSFMs decision to allow Mrs E to open the SIPP was wrong.
but this does not make sense.
It is true that Mr H no longer appeared on the Financial Services Register as able 
to lawfully conduct regulated financial services activities. But treating an 
introduction for the purposes of operating a SIPP in isolation, registration is not 
necessary as it is permitted for unregulated introducers to introduce busines to 
SIPP providers.
So treating the opening of the SIPP in insolation, there are no grounds for finding 
PSFM did anything wrong at all.
The only plausible grounds for rejecting the SIPP are that the investment that the 
SIPP proposed was unsuitable. And this is was not a determination that PSFM 
should have or was entitled to make.
So PSFM is not responsible for the losses incurred by Mrs E.
A SIPP taken in isolation is just an empty wrapper. It is only when that wrapper is 
seeded with invested capital that profits or loss become possible.
The but for test is not satisfied. It is not obvious that if PSFM had refused to open a 
SIPP for Mrs E that she would not simply have gone somewhere else to get 
access to this opportunity. This especially so as PSFM was neither obligated to 
pronounce nor capable of pronouncing, on the suitability of the investment.
In any event the but for test is only a preliminary filter. Even if no other SIPP 
operators would have allowed the investment, the losses were caused by the 
intervening act of Mr Hs advice to Mrs E which breaks the chain of causation 
between PSFM and Mrs Es application and the losses suffered on the Dunas 
Beach Resort project.
Mr Hs actions are the critical casual factor that caused Mrs Es loss and he bears 
full responsibility for those actions. They are nothing to do with PSFM.
PSFM is not therefore liable for the losses suffered by Mrs E.
The Provisional Decision
I issued a Provisional Decision in this complaint on 9 September in which I explained why I 
agreed with the investigators assessment, why I thought PSFM was at fault and what it 
should do to put things right.  I invited Mrs E and PSFM to let me have any comments they 
wished to make in response to my Provisional Decision.  Both Mrs E and PSFM have said 
they have nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Your text here In considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance 
and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good 
industry practice at the relevant time.Relevant considerations  
The Principles
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance to my decision.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). And, I consider that the Principles relevant to this complaint include Principle 2, 3 
and 6 which say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The general 
notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific 
rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA, Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression in 
the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not treated 
its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of the BBA judgment including paragraph 162 set 
out above, said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to 
cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they 
are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the 
Principles-based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to 
formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general 
duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6.
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of Financial Services & Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA) and the approach an ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The 
judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the 
ombudsman in that complaint, which I have described above, and included the Principles 
and good industry practice at the relevant time as relevant considerations that were required 
to be taken into account.
Ive considered the High Court decision in Adams v Options SIPP. Since that decision the 
Court of Appeal has handed down its judgment following its consideration of Mr Adams 
appeal. Ive taken both judgments into account when making this decision.
Ive considered whether the judgments mean that the Principles should not be taken into 
account in deciding this case and I find that they dont. In the High Court judgment, Adams v 
Options SIPP, HHJ Dight did not consider the application of the Principles and they didnt 
form part of the pleadings submitted by Mr Adams. The Court of Appeal judgment gave no 
consideration to the application of the Principles either. So, Adams v Options SIPP says 
nothing about the application of the FCAs Principles to the ombudsmans consideration of a 
complaint.
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. I am therefore 
satisfied that the FCAs Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into account 
when deciding this complaint.
COBS 2.1.1R
The rule says:
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R overlaps with certain of the Principles, and that this rule 
was considered by HHJ Dight in the Adams v Options SIPP case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, 
was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected 
this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts 
of the Adams case.
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different 
to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal did 
not so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the 
COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.
Overall, I am satisfied that COBS 2.1.1R remains a relevant consideration  but that it needs to be considered alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, and within the 
factual context of Mrs Es case.
I note that there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by 
Mr Adams and from the issues in Mrs Es complaint. The breaches were summarised in 
paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, as HHJ Dight noted, he was 
not asked to consider the question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept 
the store pods investment into its SIPP. The facts of the case were also different.
So I have considered COBS 2.1.1R, alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, 
and within the factual context of Mrs Es case, including PSFMs role in the transaction.
However, I think it is important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, I am required to take into account relevant considerations which include: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in 
Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in 
Mr Adams statement of case.
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles.
The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
I have considered those publications but will only refer to the 2009 Thematic Review
in detail. The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, 
are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly) insofar as they are 
obliged to ensure the fair treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a 
member of a pension scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in 
terms of Principle 6 includes clients. It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to 
continuously analyse the individual risks to themselves and their clients, with 
reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP 
advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP 
operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect 
them to have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing 
management information, enabling them to identify possible instances of financial 
crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such instances could then 
be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by contacting the member to 
confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or 
detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of 
poor advice and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and 
circumstances of individual cases, we may take enforcement action against SIPP 
operators who do not safeguard their clients interests in this respect, with reference 
to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems)
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken 
from examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to 
firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries 
that advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they 
have the appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing to 
the firms clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA website listing 
warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and 
clarifying respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP 
business.
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter are not formal 
guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the reports and 
Dear CEO letter didnt constitute formal guidance doesnt mean their importance should be 
underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and are 
an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its 
customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect, the 
publications which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be 
doing also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice at the 
time, and I am therefore satisfied it is appropriate to take them into account.
Like the ombudsman in the BBSAL case, I dont think the fact that the publications (other 
than the 2009 Thematic Review Report) post-date the events that are the subject of this 
complaint mean that the examples of good industry practice they provide were not good 
practice at the time of the events. The later publications were published after the events 
subject to this complaint, but the Principles that underpin them existed throughout, as did the 
obligation to act in accordance with those Principles.
It is also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports (and the Dear CEO letter 
published in 2014) that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the 
recommended good industry practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst 
the regulators comments suggest some industry participants understanding of how the 
standards shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, it is clear the 
standards themselves had not changed.
It is important to bear in mind that the reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance gave non-
exhaustive examples of good industry practice. They did not say the suggestions given were 
the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the circumstances.
Its also important to keep in mind the judgments in Adams v Options did not consider the 
regulatory publications in the context of considering what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances bearing in mind various matters including the Principles (as part of the 
regulators rules) or good industry practice.
Overall, in determining this complaint I need to consider whether PSFM complied with its 
regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act with due skill, care and diligence, to 
take reasonable care to organise its business affairs responsibly and effectively, to pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers (in this case Mrs E), to treat them fairly, and to act 
honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the Principles and the 
publications listed above to provide an indication of what PSFM could have done to comply 
with its regulatory obligations and duties.
The role of Mr H
PSFM had processes in place for checking the investments it was prepared to allow in its 
SIPP and the introducers it was willing to accept business from. It has explained it had 
processes in place before the 2009 Thematic Review report was published and it has 
referred to the points made in that report to explain why it thinks it acted reasonably at the 
time.
PSFM says part of the report focuses on the relationship with introducers and that it 
undertook the checks referred to  checking that advisers who introduce clients to it were 
FSA authorised and had appropriate permissions. Mr H was an approved person and the 
firm for which Mr H acted as an approved person, Openwork, had the relevant permissions 
to provide investment advice. It carried out its checks periodically and on an ongoing basis.
PSFM is a regulated business. It is an execution only SIPP operator. And it was under a 
regulatory obligation to conduct its business, in that limited non-advisory capacity, with due 
skill, care and diligence, manage its affairs responsibly with adequate risk management and 
effectively, and pay due regard to its customers interests and treat them fairly.
PSFM entered into an introducer agreement with Mr H and, though it cannot find the original, 
PSFM says the agreement included the following:
[The Introducer] is, and for the duration of this Agreement will be, authorised and 
regulated by the FCA
In respect of FCA authorised and regulated firms it has the appropriate FSMA Part 
4A permissions to provide advice to, or manage a discretionary investment 
portfolio on behalf of, the Individuals
It has full capacity and authority to perform its duties under the Introducer 
Agreement.
In 2009 the regulator gave examples of good industry practice, including:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms clients, 
and that they do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
And PSFM says it has met those standards.
Mr H ceased to be an appointed representative in 2010. The FSA Register was updated to 
show this from 22 July 2010.
At no point has PSFM said it became aware of Mr Hs changed status and terminated its 
Introducer Agreement with him before Mrs Es application in February 2011.
Did Mr H introduce Mrs Es SIPP application to PSFM?
PSFM says there is no evidence Mr H introduced Mrs Es SIPP application to it. It also says 
some evidence points to the conclusion that he did not introduce Mrs Es application. It says 
unlike in Mr Es case, it did not pay an introducer fee to Mr H and it is unlikely he would have 
made the introduction without being remunerated.
However Mrs E says that Mr H advised her to open a SIPP with PSFM, and to switch her 
pensions to it in order to invest in the Dunas Beach Resort. And that he gave her the 
application forms to sign and then took them away in order to deal with the implementation 
of his advice.
As Mrs E says she did not send the application to PSFM herself it follows that it is her 
version of events that Mr H submitted her application to PSFM.
It is accepted by PSFM that Mr H introduced Mr Es similar application a few months earlier. 
But PSFM had little evidence showing that Mr H submitted the application  other than a 
record of paying a fee to him. And it made a record that Mr H was the introducer. PSFM has 
said it was Mr Hs practice to call into its office and drop off applications rather than, say, 
send them in by post. So the absence of a copy of any letter from Mr H submitting Mrs Es 
application in this case is not therefore clear evidence that Mr H did not introduce Mrs Es 
application as there was no such letter in Mr Es case either.
There is a lack of evidence showing Mr H advised Mrs E to open a SIPP with PSFM, transfer 
her pension to it and invest in Dunas Beach Resort. But it is more likely than not that this is 
what happened. It is what Mrs E says happened and it is plausible. It is unlikely she would 
have opened an SIPP and transferred her pension to it without such advice even if her 
husband had done the same only a few months earlier.
As PSFM is now aware Mr H promoted the Dunas Beach investment and his use of a non- 
advised fee agreement in other cases shows that he tried to find a way around the normal 
obligations on regulated advisers.
The main point for PSFM is that it did not pay an introducer fee to Mr H in relation to Mrs E. 
PSFM says Mr H not claiming a fee indicates he is unlikely to have made the introduction as 
he is unlikely to have done so without payment.
However PSFM has itself suggested that an alternative explanation might be that Mr H dealt 
with Mr and Mrs Es business on a joint basis and only charged one fee. That said I do not 
really think that is the explanation.
Another point made by PSFM is that it is most unlikely he would have introduced the SIPP 
business without being remunerated for doing so. But this point overlooks two points. First Mr H will almost certainly have received a payment of some sort for the introduction of the 
business to Dunas Beach Resort. And so will not have been reliant solely on a fee for the 
introduction of the SIPP. But that investment had to be made if Mr H was to receive any 
payment at all. So it was in his interest to try to ensure the application process went 
smoothly. Mr H introduced Mr Es business to PSFM. It seems likely he will have done the 
same in relation to Mrs E. It seems unlikely Mr H will have told Mrs E she would have to deal 
with her application herself.
The second point is that by the time of Mrs Es application Mr H was no longer an appointed 
representative. He may therefore have thought it best to exercise some caution and not draw 
more attention to himself by requesting the payment of a fee in case it triggered any checks 
and his new status was discovered. So a decision by Mr H to forego a fee from PSFM is not 
implausible.
But on the issue of checks, at no point has PSFM said that by the time of Mrs Es application 
it knew Mr H was no longer an appointed representative and so was on its guard not to 
accept further applications from him.
PSFM has also said it only checked the FCA register when Mr H first became and introducer 
and then only from time to time afterwards.  So it cannot be said that the application could 
not have been submitted by Mr H because that would definitely have triggered a check of the 
register and rejection of the application.
The lack of an introducer fee does not support Mrs E claim that Mr H introduced her to 
PSFM. But it does not disprove her claim either and her claim is supported by the other 
circumstances surrounding her application. When account is taken of all of the 
circumstances I consider it is more likely than not that Mr H advised Mrs E to invest in the 
Dunas Beach Resort investment, and that he advised her to set up a SIPP with PSFM and 
transfer her existing pension to it in order to make that investment. And it is more likely than 
not that he arranged for all this to happen by helping Mrs E with the application forms etc 
and submitting them to PSFM. It is my finding that it is more likely than not that Mr H did 
introduce Mrs Es application to PSFM.
The checks made by PSFM on Mr H
PSFM says it was not obliged to check upon Mr Hs regulatory status upon each application 
it received. I do not need to decide that point. I say that because even if PSFM could 
reasonably only make checks from time to time by the time of Mrs Es application in 
February 2011 Mr H had not been an appointed presentative of Openwork for almost six 
months. Bearing in mind the purpose for which such checks should be made I do not 
consider it fair and reasonable for things not to be checked for that long. It ought therefore to 
have rechecked Mr Hs regulatory status by the time of Mrs Es application. If it had done so 
PSFM would have realised Mr H was no longer an appointed representative and would have 
refused to accept the application, he introduced.
And in any event PSFM should not have entered into an Introducer Agreement with Mr H. 
And if it had not done so it would not have accepted Mrs Es application introduced by Mr H 
in 2011.
When it first considered accepting business from Mr H, PSFM should have had a reasonable 
understanding of the need for those giving regulated advice to be regulated. It should 
reasonably have understood the appointed representative/principal relationship. It should 
have understood that the appointed representatives regulated status relies entirely on its 
principal  the apointed representative is not free to do whatever it wants to independently.And PSFM should reasonably have understood the principals business model when 
considering doing business with an appointed representative.
It was PSFMs understanding Mr H would be giving regulated investment advice to clients he 
introduced to it. It was content about this because it understood Mr H was an approved 
person and was an appointed representative of Openwork which was authorised to give 
investment advice. And so PSFM entered into the Introducer Agreement with Mr H 
personally and accepted the business he referred to it including Mrs Es application for a 
SIPP, to transfer her existing pension to it and invest in the Dunas Beach Resort investment.
However PSFM should have been aware of the implications of Mr H being an appointed 
representative of Openwork.
As an appointed representative Mr H was not an authorised person in his own right. He was 
only approved by the FSA to give advice on behalf of Openwork. Mr Hs authority to give 
advice came from Openwork. He was only authorised to do the things Openwork authorised 
him to do.
Openwork is a restricted product range firm, not a whole of market adviser. And PSFM 
should have known that if it was considering doing business with one of its appointed 
representatives. It should also have known that it (PSFM) had no arrangement with 
Openwork  that it was not on Openworks panel of approved providers it did business with. 
It was not one of the limited number of providers it did business with. Put another way, it 
should have known Openwork, and therefore its advisers, did not do business with it.
So as a general point PSFM should have known an appointed representative is only 
authorised if it acts within the authority given by its principal. And in relation to a restricted 
advice firm, such as Openwork, PSFM should have known that the authority given by the 
principal would be restricted. And it should have understood that advising on its SIPP would 
not be something an Openwork appointed representative was authorised by Openwork to 
do.
And PSFM should have understood that if Mr H did not have the authority of his principal to 
advise on its SIPPs there was a real risk he would be breaching the General Prohibition if he 
was introducing SIPP business and taking responsibility for the suitability of the SIPP.
It is permitted for unregulated introducers to introduce business to SIPP providers but that is 
not what PSFM understood its relationship with Mr H to be. It thought he was regulated and 
would be giving regulated investment advice about the suitability of its SIPPs for its potential 
customers.
There is also the point that if Mr H was acting beyond his authority with his principal he might 
not be dealing with it an open and appropriate way. Why, for example, was Mr H trying to do 
business with a SIPP provider that was not Openworks approved provider? Was he trying to 
do business he was deliberately not reporting to his principal? Or did he just not understand 
the obligations he was under? These points raise questions about Mr Hs character and/or 
competence and whether Mr H was an appropriate person to be doing SIPP business with, 
and whether it was in its customers best interests to do business with him.
These points should have been matters of serious concern for PSFM which should have 
meant that it ensured it only accepted business from Mr H that was authorised by Openwork 
 or in other words it should have entered into the Introducer Agreement with Openwork not 
Mr H, or no agreement at all.
If PSFM had checked with Openwork, it would have discovered that Mr H was not authorised to do business with it. And in turn it would not have entered into Introducer Agreement with 
Mr H in 2010 and it should have refused to accept any business from Mr H. PSFM could and 
should have refused Mrs Es application without going beyond its normal contractual role 
and regulatory permissions and without giving him advice on the suitability of the investment 
for him.
PSFM has argued that the principal of an appointed representative maybe responsible for 
advise composed of multiple strands if it is responsible for one of the strands for example the 
advice to sell an existing pension. But as mentioned, Openwork had an approved SIPP 
provider on its list. If PSFM had checked with Openwork it would have found out that 
Openwork did not authorise Mr H to advise on PSFMs SIPP because it was not its listed 
SIPP provider. That should have been enough for PSFM to refuse to enter into an Introducer 
Agreement with Mr H or otherwise accept business form him. I cannot see that PSFM would 
have carried on in the belief that Openwork was wrong about the authority it gives its 
appointed representatives and think that in some limited circumstances the appointed 
representative would be authorised and that it would therefore do business with Mr H despite 
what Openwork would have said.
Also doing business with Mr H without first checking with Openwork has exposed clients 
such as Mr and Mrs E to the risk - which PSFM has referred to as entirely predictable  that 
Openwork would refuse to accept responsibility for the advice given by Mr H. This means the 
client was exposed to the risk of receiving advice in breach of the General Prohibition which 
was not subject to the usual supervision a regulated adviser is subject to and thus at greater 
risk of advice that was not in the clients best interest and in relation to which the usual 
regulatory safeguards of access to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme and the 
Financial Ombudsman Service would not be available. In short, the risks of consumer 
detriment from dealing with an adviser who was not authorised to give the advice he was 
giving were considerable.
PSFM should not have accepted business introduced by Mr H. If PSFM had not entered into 
an Introducer Agreement with Mr H, Mrs Es husband would not have taken out a PSFM 
SIPP and invested in the Dunas Beach Resort.  If he had not done so Mr H would not have 
be able to return and persuade Mrs E to do the same thing.
And in any event, regardless of Mr Es application, PSFM should not have accepted Mrs Es 
application, introduced by Mr H, for a SIPP and transfer her existing personal pension to it 
because it should not have entered into an Introducer Agreement with Mr H.
And this means PSFM would not have made the investment to Dunas Beach Resort for Mrs 
E because it would have had no SIPP to make the investment from.
Did PSFMs failings cause Mrs Es loss?
I cannot see that there is any evidence that Mrs E was motivated to open her SIPP and 
invest in PSFM because of, for example, an incentive payment as in the Adams v Options 
SIPP case. I acknowledge that Mrs Es husband had invested in a similar way in his PSFM 
SIPP but as mentioned above PSFM should not have accepted his application either. In my 
view, there is however nothing to indicate that Mrs E would have moved her pension if she 
had not been encouraged to do so by Mr H. And Mr H only acted in that way because PSFM 
agreed to accept the business he referred to it.
Mrs E had a relatively small pension pot and at the time she was advised Mr H was no 
longer an appointed representative. I do not consider it likely that she would have been 
advised to move her pension and invest in Dunas Beach Resort if PSFM had not agreed to accept business introduced by Mr H. Nor do I consider that any other regulated financial 
adviser acting reasonably would have advised Mrs E that investing her pension in the Dunas 
Beach Resort investment was suitable for her. It is a higher risk, esoteric investment that is 
unsuitable for a pension investment for most retail investors.
I therefore consider it unlikely that Mrs E would have suffered the same loss if PSFM had 
refused to accept his application.
In conclusion
It is my view that in the light of what PSFM knew, or ought to have known, about Mr H and 
his principal Openwork before it received Mrs Es application, it didnt comply with good 
industry practice, act with due skill, care and diligence, organise and control its affairs 
responsibly, or treat Mrs E fairly by accepting her application. And I think that, in not doing 
so, it allowed her to be put at significant risk of detriment. It did not act in its customers best 
interest as required in its role as an execution only SIPP provider.
For the avoidance  of doubt,  Im not saying  that PSFM  should  have  assessed  the 
suitability  of the investment  or the SIPP  for Mrs E. I accept  that PSFM  had no obligation  
to give advice  to Mrs E, or otherwise  ensure  the suitability  of a pension  product  or 
investment  for her. My finding  is not that PSFM  should  have  concluded  that the 
investment  or SIPP  was not suitable  for Mrs E. Rather  it is that PSFM  did not meet  its 
regulatory  obligations,  or treat Mrs E fairly,  by accepting  his application  for a SIPP  
introduced  by Mr H.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mrs E should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
reasonably be in if things had not gone wrong. In my view that means comparing Mrs Es 
present position to the position she would be in if she had not moved his existing personal 
pension.
It is therefore my view that PSFM should put things right as follows:
PSFM should calculate fair compensation by comparing the value of Mrs Es pension, if he 
had not transferred, with the current value of his SIPP. In summary:
1. Obtain the notional transfer value of Mrs Es previous pension plan, if it had not 
been transferred to the SIPP.
2. Obtain the actual transfer value of Mrs Es SIPP, including any 
outstandingcharges.
3. Pay a commercial value to buy the Dunas Beach investment (or treat it as having 
a zero value in the compensation calculations).
4. Pay an amount into Mrs Es SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal 
the value calculated in (1). This payment should take account of any available tax 
relief and the effect of charges. It should also take account of interest as set out 
below.5. If the SIPP needs to be kept open only as a result of the Dunas Beach Resort  
investment and used only or substantially to hold that asset, then any future SIPP 
fees should be waived until the SIPP can be closed.
6. PSFM should also refund to Mrs E any fees or charges she has paid from money 
other than the money originally transferred in form his personal pension together 
with 8 % simple interest per year from the date the fee or charge was paid until 
the date of this decision.
7. Pay Mrs E £750 for the distress and inconvenience the avoidable problems with 
his pension will have caused her. I understand from dealing with Mr Es complaint 
that as well as the worry and frustration she will have experienced as a result of 
the losses in her pension, PSFM took legal action to recover fees including taking 
enforcement action to recover the money fund to be owing. I understand that the 
same is the case for Mrs E. This will have casued Mrs E further worry and 
distress that would not have been the case if PSFM had not accpted Mrs Es 
SIPP application and invested in Dunas Beach Resort on her behalf.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation of the previous pension, then the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total Return Index should be used instead. That is a 
reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have been achieved if suitable funds had 
been chosen taking account of Mrs Es likely attitude to risk.
If PSFM is unwilling or unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil for the purposes of the above calculation. And PSFM may ask Mrs E to 
provide an undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may 
receive from the investment. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and 
charges on the amount Mrs E may receive from the investments and any eventual sums she 
would be able to access from the SIPP. PSFM will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
If PSFM is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs Es SIPP it should pay the compensation 
as a lump sum to Mrs E. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP it would have 
provided a taxable income. So the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs Es marginal rate of tax at retirement. 
For example, if Mrs E is a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would 
equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax.
However, if Mrs E would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the notional allowance 
should be applied to 75% of the total amount.
The compensation resulting from this loss assessment must be paid to Mrs E or into her 
SIPP within 28 days of the date PSFM receives notification of her acceptance of my final 
decision. Interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement if the compensation is not 
paid within 28 days.
My final decision
My final decsion decision is that Mrs Es complaint should be upheld for the reasons I have set out above and that PSFM SIPP Limited should pay fair compensation to Mrs E as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Philip Roberts
Ombudsman