DRN-3297274
The complaint
Mr G complains about the failure of Hartley Pensions Limited (Hartley) to sign a Deed of 
Surrender relating to his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). 
Mr G also complains that he is being charged high fees for the management of his SIPP 
which is now worthless.
What happened
In 2018, Hartley took over the management of Mr Gs SIPP from a previous provider that 
went into administration. 
The businesses involved in the set up and operation of Mr Gs SIPP are set out below:
Berkley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd (BBSAL) (Berkley Burke) 
Berkley Burke was a regulated SIPP operator that provided Mr Gs SIPP until it entered into 
administration 
Hartley Pensions Limited (Hartley) 
Hartley is a regulated SIPP operator which acquired Mr Gs SIPP in March 2018 when his 
previous provider Berkley Burke, went into administration.
Hartley SAS Limited (Hartley SAS) 
Hartley SAS was contracted to carry out the day to day administration of SIPPs for Berkley 
Burke, including collecting annual and ad-hoc fees. It continues to perform this role for 
Hartley since Berkley Burke entered administration.
In October 2012, Mr G set up a SIPP with a firm that I will call Company A. Mr G made an 
investment in Store First and this was held within the SIPP.
The Store First investment was in financial difficulty, and Mr G made a successful claim to 
the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) about the initial advice given to Mr G 
by Company A. The FSCS paid compensation to Mr G to compensate his losses but the 
SIPP remained open as the FSCS were unable to take assignment of the Store First 
investment within his SIPP.
As the SIPP still holds an active asset, Mr G has been unable to close the SIPP and Hartley 
has been charging annual administration fees on the same basis that Berkley Burke 
charged. Mr G has been paying an annual fee of around £700.
Mr G complained to Hartley in November 2020 about their failure to sign a Deed of 
Surrender which meant that he couldnt close his SIPP and he continued to be charged high 
fees which was not in his best interest.
Hartley didnt uphold the complaint. They said that HMRC requires that pension assets are 
sold for a fair value and this prevents them from signing the Deed of Surrender. They said 
that although there is clearly a value to the pension asset, they havent been provided with a 
value by Store First Freeholds.
Hartley went on to say that if the Deed of Surrender was exercised without the fair value 
being known, HMRC could issue Hartley and Mr G with a tax penalty and as the professional 
trustee of Mr Gs scheme, they couldnt take this course of action.
Unhappy with Hartleys response, Mr G referred his complaint to the service and one of our 
investigators looked into the case. The investigator concluded that Mr Gs complaint should 
be upheld in part. The investigator thought that Hartley had treated Mr G unfairly by charging 
unnecessarily high fees in relation to the SIPP.
The investigator thought that it was reasonable for Hartley to charge Mr G what it was 
charging new customers for its Abacus single asset SIPP as this would be a benchmark for 
the sort of costs associated with a SIPP in this situation. This was an annual fee of £175 plus 
VAT.
The investigator also asked Hartley to refund the difference between what it was charging Mr 
G and the annual charge for the Abacus single asset SIPP. The investigator asked for 8% 
simple interest to be added to this amount.
The investigator didnt think that Hartley had done anything wrong relating to exercising the 
Deed of Surrender. They said that they couldnt order Hartley to sign the Deed of Surrender 
and close the SIPP.
Mr G rejected the investigators view and responded with reasons why he disagreed with the 
investigators view. In summary, he said:
A blanket approach is being taken to these cases and thats not fair
Its not reasonable that Hartley are refusing to sign the Deed of Surrender and this 
appears to have gone without challenge
The investment has no value
If there were any tax penalty, hed be willing to pay it
If any charge is to be applied it should be the cheapest on the market, Hartleys fees are 
comparatively expensive and shouldnt be used
What happens if Hartley decides to raise its fees in the future
Hartley said it didnt have to set out the work it undertakes in relation to his SIPP, this 
isnt reasonable.
What happens when the fund runs out
As Mr G didnt agree with the investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. I will cover off Mr Gs points in my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position 
and I am grateful to them for taking the time to do so. I have considered these submissions 
in their entirety. However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not 
to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my findings, on what I consider to be 
the main points, and reasons for reaching them.
There are two main parts to Mr Gs complaint, and I will cover them off in turn, but I will 
address some of Mr Gs comments first.
Mr G has said in his submission that a blanket approach is being taken to these cases and 
thats not fair. I do acknowledge that a similar approach may be apparent in similar cases, 
but I can assure Mr G that each case is decided on its own individual merits based on the 
circumstances of that case and this is what Ive done here.
Deed of Surrender 
Mr G has complained that Hartley will not sign the Deed of Surrender that would allow him to 
move the Store First investment out of the SIPP and allow him to close it.
Hartley have said in their submission that they cannot sign off this course of action. They say 
that HMRC rules state that pension assets must be sold for a fair market value and they 
have not been provided with a value by Store First Freeholds. 
Hartley say that if the Deed of Surrender was exercised without a fair value being assessed 
this would be a breach of HMRC rules and it could issue a tax penalty to both Mr G and to 
Hartley.
I sympathise with Mr Gs position, but the service cant reasonably direct Hartley to do 
something that could be in breach of HMRC rules.
Mr G has said that the Store First lockers do not have any value and people are unable to 
sell their lockers at auction precisely for this reason. 
I understand Mr Gs position but as the Store First investment remains in the SIPP and no 
fair value has been assessed (despite being requested by Hartley), I cant ask Hartley to 
sign the Deed of Surrender. 
Mr G has said that Hartley must be taken to task and forced to sign the Deed of Surrender. 
The service isnt a regulator and we cant tell a firm how to run their business and as Ive 
previous said, we cant direct Hartley to do something that may leave them in breach of 
HMRC rules.
In his submission to the service, Mr G has said that he is happy to pay any tax penalty that 
may arise should HMRC say that a fair value has not been assessed. I acknowledge Mr 
Gs stance on this but any acceptance of transferring a future tax liability would need the 
agreement of Hartley and not something that the service could comment on, or direct 
Hartley to do.
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mr G and I understand his strength of 
feeling on this complaint. I also recognise that this leaves Mr G in a difficult position.
Fees charged by Hartley 
The second part of M Gs complaint relates to the fees charged by Hartley. Mr G says that 
the fees are high in relation to other providers and he is trapped into paying the fees as he 
cant close or transfer his SIPP.The key issue for me to decide is whether it is fair and reasonable for Hartley to charge fees 
for Mr Gs SIPP, and if it is, what level of fees would be appropriate
Relevant considerations 
Like the investigator before me, when considering whats fair and reasonable in this 
complaint I consider the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Principles for Business to be of 
particular relevance.
The Principles for Businesses (PRIN) which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a 
general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system 
(PRIN 1.1.2G). In addition, in British Bankers Association, R (on the application of) v The 
Financial Services Authority & Anon (2011) EWHC 999 (20 April 2011) Ousely J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to 
reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what would be 
fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had been produced by 
the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory duty without having 
regard to the sort of high level principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever 
formulated them. They are the essence of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the 
argument about their relationship to specific rules (para 77).
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the specific 
rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The specific rules do not 
supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are but specific applications of 
them to the particular requirements they cover. The general notion that the specific rules 
can exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law 
for the Principles to augment specific rules (para 162).
I consider Principle 6 to be of particular relevance:
Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly 
In September 2009 the FSA published a thematic review report on SIPPs which stated:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to ensure the 
fair treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension 
scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes 
clients
The context that these comments were made was in relation to the quality of the business 
that a SIPP operator accepts. I understand that in this complaint, Hartley is not responsible 
for the acceptance of Mr Gs business, but its clear from the FSAs comments that SIPP 
operators were obliged to ensure fair treatment of their customers.
So, Ive carefully considered Hartleys obligation to treat its customers (and specifically Mr 
G) fairly when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise the fees Hartley has charged Mr G are those which were agreed with Berkley 
Burke when the SIPP was established, and so under the terms of the SIPP it is contractually entitled to collect them. But Im required to consider whether thats fair and 
reasonable in the wider circumstances. 
Mr Gs SIPP holds a single asset. The investment in it has become illiquid and is effectively 
worthless at present. This has resulted in Mr G being unable to transfer
that asset or close the SIPP.
I acknowledge that Hartley took over Mr Gs SIPP at a time when he was already in a difficult 
position, and I do accept that as a commercial business, there is a cost to Hartley providing 
administration of that SIPP. But the fees Hartley levy upon Mr G must be fair.
Hartleys annual administration fee 
I understand that there are a number of tasks and responsibilities that are required to be 
carried out when administering the SIPP. In response to other complaints, Hartley have said 
that the following tasks are required in administering a SIPP:
Professional responsibility and independent Trustee of the scheme
Ongoing responsibility as the scheme administrator 
Routine administration of the SIPP including carrying out non reportable transactions, 
routine record keeping, regular advice to the Pensions Regulator and general 
technical and administrative queries.
Preparing and filing the Registered Pension Scheme event report and Registered 
Pension Scheme Return 
Ongoing negotiations with ad-hoc reporting to HMRC including audit requests 
Individual returns to HMRC
FCA reporting 
Revisions to the Trust Deed and Rules required as a result of a change in legislations 
or HMRC practice 
Facilitating the purchase and sale of assets on behalf of the scheme 
Reclaiming tax relief from HMRC on personal contributions when applicable 
Although Hartley have said that the annual fee covers the items listed above, it hasnt 
specifically evidenced that the complete list is required when administering  Mr Gs SIPP. 
Given the situation with Mr Gs SIPP (it holds a single asset which appears to be more or 
less dormant, and no money is being paid in or out of it) I think that it is unlikely that all of 
the things listed above would arise, or if they did, would require significant work.
I cant say that its fair that Hartley carry the full burden of covering administration costs but 
as I have said before, I must consider whether these are fair and reasonable.
The fees that Hartley are charging in relation to Mr Gs SIPP are the fees that were in place 
and agreed between Mr G and Berkley Burke when the SIPP was set up. But I dont think 
that this automatically makes it appropriate for Hartley to continue with those fees.
I dont think that Hartley is acting fairly and reasonably as I have not seen sufficient evidence 
to show that the charges are a fair reflection of the work and/or costs involved. It seems that 
Hartley is applying these charges because it can, on the basis of the agreement that Mr G 
entered into with Berkley Burke.
I know that Mr G doesnt think that Hartley should be applying any fee to the management of 
his SIPP and believes that he is being kept locked into his SIPP. I fully understand Mr Gs 
frustrations but as Hartley are undertaking some administrative tasks on his SIPP, they do 
have a right to charge a commercial fee.Like the investigator before me, Ive considered what Hartley would charge a new customer 
for a similar service. The investigator has identified the Abacus single asset SIPP as the 
most appropriate from those that Hartley offer, and it is this product that I think Hartley 
should use as a guide for future charging.
In Mr Gs submission, he has said that if any charge is to be applied then it should be the 
cheapest on the market as Hartleys fees are comparatively expensive and shouldnt be 
used.
Whilst I appreciate Hartleys fees may not be the lowest available on the open market, how a 
business sets its fees is at its commercial discretion and numerous factors will impact the 
level of fees it charges. Under the circumstances I think it is fair to use Hartleys own fees as 
a benchmark. 
Mr G has also asked what happens if Hartley decides to raise its fees in the future or when 
the fund runs out.
I dont know what will happen with Mr Gs SIPP in the future, if Hartley do change or pursue 
the fees in a way that Mr G believes is unfair in the future he may be able to raise a new 
complaint at that stage. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Hartley Pensions Limited should:
Subject to any regulatory restrictions that might be imposed on Hartley from time to 
time, reduce the fees its charging Mr G so that he is only being charged the lower 
annual administration fee equivalent to a new customer and in line with the Abacus 
single asset SIPP. I understand this to be £175 + VAT
Refund Mr G, the difference between what he has paid since Hartley took over the 
SIPP from Berkley Burke, and what he would have paid had he been in the Abucus 
single asset SIPP. 
Simple interest at 8% a year should be added to this refund. This should be from the 
date the fee was paid until the date the refund is paid.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I partly uphold the complaint and I direct Hartley Pensions 
Limited to compensate Mr G, as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman