DRN-2021487
The complaint
Mr W isnt happy Bank of Scotland (BoS) offset a refund of interest and charges against his 
outstanding credit card balance instead of refunding the money direct to him.
What happened
Mr W had a credit card ending ****7687 with BoS, and from 2014 hed had difficulty in 
keeping up with his repayments. The account defaulted and was sold to a debt purchaser, Ill 
call C.
In February 2019 as part of a rectification project, BoS recalculated interest and charges that 
had been applied to Mr Ws credit card account. And refunded the difference in the interest 
back into this account.
Mr W complained to BoS as he said hed not been given the option to have the refund paid 
direct to him as he had with other similar refunds. And when asked the BoS agent had 
refused to give him their identification details.
BoS said as Mr W still had an outstanding debt, theyd reduced the balance he still owed, 
effectively removing the interest and charges that had been added to the balance, a 
corrective refund. And they didnt have to ask Mr W about the way this should be repaid. 
BoS said theyd also looked at the actions of their staff and the details Mr W had asked for 
werent available to give. And that their member of staff hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr W wasnt happy with BoS response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint and explained that shed looked at BoS 
processes in how theyd dealt with the matter. She said BoS had followed agreed guidance 
in how theyd dealt with the refund of interest and charges. She clarified the account the 
charges related to and she said there hadnt been any detriment to Mr W.
Mr W didnt agree. He said the investigator had shown bias and hadnt looked at all of the 
evidence. And that BoS was part of the same banking group as another bank hed had an 
account with, and they hadnt offset the refund but paid it direct to him. He didnt think he had 
been treated fairly.
Mr W has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. I know Mr W will be disappointed in my 
decision, so Ill explain why.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This 
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on 
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information 
were given. In reaching my decision Im required to decide what is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Mr Ws complaint.
I can understand Mr Ws frustration as he has shown he had another refund paid direct to 
him from a member of the same banking group. He thinks BoS should do the same, as there 
is an inconsistency, and this is unfair to him.
There can be many factors which affect what a business does. I dont know the facts of the 
other case where Mr W was refunded. So, in reaching my decision I need to determine 
whether BoS has been fair and reasonable in what they have done.
Mr W got into financial difficulty in 2014. And BoS went on to pass his credit card account to 
a debt purchaser for collection of the debt. When BoS carried out a review of their internal 
collection processes they saw that before theyd sold Mr Ws account to C theyd hadnt 
always acted appropriately, and now looked to correct this.
In February 2019, I can see BoS let Mr W know about the account correction and I think 
made it clear how they intended to apply the refund. And Mr W would have known he still 
owed over £11,000 on his credit card account, so I think hed have realised what BoS was 
saying in their letter.
The refund of £104.20 was in respect of card ending **** 7687 and was an interest refund for 
the period of March 2014 to July 2014, when BoS still owned Mr Ws credit card account. 
BoS passed  the account adjustment on to the current owner of the debt C .
Mr W thinks the refund should have been paid directly to him. I can see why hed think
this given his relationship with BoS had ended when they sold his debt. But I have to 
consider whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. The refund relates only to interest 
and charges on Mr Ws credit card account. He owed more than this to BoS at the point the 
debt was sold, and to the debt purchaser C at the point the refund was made. In effect, in 
this case the refund is an account correction because Mr W had never paid the interest and 
charges and wasnt out of pocket in this respect. So, I dont think BoS has been unfair in 
correcting Mr Ws account in this way.
Mr W has also complained about not being given information he asked BoS agent for. Mr W 
said he needed the information to be able to keep a continuity of contact with BoS. And hed 
asked the agent for an identification number. BoS has said their agent wouldnt have had an 
identification number. And I can see that enough information was given to Mr W when he 
called for him to be able to identify who hed spoken to. My final decision
 I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman