DRN-3027357
The complaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank plc didnt comply with his instruction to send him all 
correspondence and statements for his account by email.
  
What happened
Mr W has a current account with Lloyds.
Mr W says he first informed Lloyds about his visual impairment about six years ago. He 
says that at that time he was able to read documents in large print. And, he says he used 
to receive documents in this format. But, because his eyesight has continued to 
deteriorate, he says that standard large print is no longer of any use to him. He says he 
cannot read documents in Braille. So, he needs all his documents to be sent to him in a 
digital format. He is then able to use his telephone device to amplify the text to the size he 
requires.
Mr W says he told Lloyds he wanted all his statements and other documents to be sent to 
him by email. He isnt sure when he gave Lloyds this instruction, but he says hes told it on 
a number of occasions that he only wants emails.
Mr W says that despite his requests Lloyds continues to send him correspondence by 
post. He says this causes him immense stress and anxiety because he has to get other 
people to read his post to him. He says this is particularly difficult because he lives on his 
own.
Mr W complained to Lloyds in April 2020. Lloyds investigated his complaint. It said Mr W 
was registered for paperless statements and other correspondence. It said the majority of 
correspondence was sent to Mr W in accordance with his preference for electronic 
documents. But it said this didnt mean he wouldnt receive some correspondence by post. 
It said it needed to send some correspondence by post because of regulatory 
requirements.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with this response. He says hes continued to receive various items 
by post including statements, the final response letter to his complaint, updates about 
changes to his terms and conditions, advice notes about bounced payments and PIN 
numbers. So, he complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. He said that Mr Ws account was registered for 
paperless statements and online correspondence. He said Lloyds could arrange for 
correspondence it had to send by post to be provided in an alternative format such as 
large print or Braille. He thought Lloyds had provided enough evidence that it had a 
regulatory requirement to send post. So, he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr W didnt agree. So, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
I can see Mr W has internet banking with Lloyds and hes registered 
to receive online statements and correspondence. Neither Mr W nor 
Lloyds could confirm when he first registered for this service.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions for this service. These say that by 
agreeing to receive paper-free statements and correspondence Mr W agreed 
Lloyds could give him information about his accounts electronically and it 
could stop sending paper copies of documents it sent electronically.
The terms and conditions go on to say the following:
However, we may not be able to provide all your statements or 
correspondence electronically and it may not always be 
appropriate for us to do so. So, we may still send you some or all 
of this information by post.
So, the terms and conditions didnt guarantee that all statements and 
correspondence would be sent electronically.
Ive looked at the types of correspondence which Lloyds has continued 
to send Mr W on paper. This includes the following:
Notices about changes to interest rates;
Notices about changes to terms and conditions;
Letters in response to his complaint;
Notification of PIN numbers; and
Letters about unpaid standing orders and direct debits that have 
been returned unpaid  Ive noted that theres been several letters 
of this nature in the period since January 2020.
Mr W says he has received some statements by post, even though hes 
registered for paperless statements. I havent seen any evidence that 
statements have been sent on paper. And, on balance, Im not persuaded 
hes received statements for his current account by post.
Ive considered the correspondence Mr W has been sent by post.
All of the documents set out in the list above are important notices. Some of 
the letters referred to deal with private and confidential matters  such as 
responses to a complaint and PIN numbers. Other letters are about matters 
which would require Mr Ws immediate attention  such as unpaid standing 
orders. And some of the letters are to update him on changes to his 
accounts - there are regulatory requirements to send these to customers and 
its important for Mr W to know about changes to his terms and conditions.
So, having thought about the documents which have been sent by post, I 
dont think Lloyds has acted fairly and reasonably when it hasnt provided 
these to Mr W in a format which enables him to read them. And I dont think 
he should be expected to have to ask other people to read these documents 
to him. As Ive mentioned, some of the letters contain private and 
confidential information. So, I understand why he says this has caused him stress and anxiety. And I can also understand why this has been particularly 
difficult during the past year when restrictions have been in place because of 
the coronavirus pandemic which prohibit others, who he might have asked to 
read the documents to him, from visiting him.
Mr W says hes told Lloyds he wants these documents sent to him 
electronically. He says it has ignored his requests.
Ive looked at Lloyds records to see what notes are held about this request. 
I can see the following notes on Lloyds systems:
13 February 2017  Mr W asked for a document to be made 
available in large print. As this wasnt possible, he was asked to 
contact the Disability Support Services team
18 March 2017  large print indicator removed
16 November 2017  Support need added  bespoke correspondence
19 January 2018  Deleted bespoke service need as no supporting 
notes as to what is required. customer will receive large print until 
notes updated
7 May 2019  Mail returned in, service need removed
These notes indicate that Lloyds was aware that Mr W had a visual 
impairment  or at least required an adjustment to the way it communicated 
with him.
When a business is aware that a customer has a visual impairment, wed 
expect it to respond in a positive and proactive way to try to assist that 
customer. That requires it to be responsive and flexible. And, it requires it 
to engage with the customer in a way which encourages disclosure about 
the nature of the visual impairment and what adaptations, or support are 
required. By doing that the business should be able to deliver outcomes for 
the customer which are as good as those it offers to its other customers.
Having looked at the contact notes, Im not persuaded that Lloyds did 
behave in a positive or proactive way after it became aware that Mr W 
required an adjustment to meet his needs. In February 2017 he was told to 
contact the Disability Support team. I wouldve expected Lloyds to have 
offered a warm hand off to that team  rather than putting the onus on Mr W 
to contact it.
A month after that it removed the large print indicator. But, theres nothing 
to suggest it was proactively trying to engage with Mr W. It didnt contact 
Mr W to discuss his needs or to discuss what it could do to support those 
needs.
I can see that Mr W mustve raised the matter again in or about November 
2017. There are no details about what was discussed nor was there a hand 
off to the Disability Support team at that date. And, in January 2018 Lloyds 
decided simply to go back to providing large print. There was no discussion 
with Mr W to find out if that supported his needs.
It appears from the notes that in May 2019 Mr W may have returned 
some of the post he was receiving. But, once again, the notes dont 
indicate a proactive approach by Lloyds. It doesnt appear to have contacted him at that time. Instead it removed the reference to a service 
need from its systems altogether.
When Mr W raised his complaint with Lloyds in April 2020, it noted on its 
systems that he didnt want to discuss the type of support he needed and 
didnt give Lloyds the explicit consent it says it needed to record or discuss 
how it could support him. This would have made it difficult for Lloyds to 
make the adjustments it needed to make to its communications with Mr W. 
But, given the history of what had happened in the period since 2017, I can 
understand why Mr W may have been reluctant to discuss these matters 
with Lloyds in April 2020.
Lloyds says it can provide statements and other correspondence in Braille, 
large print, audio CD or a bespoke option. The bespoke option can include 
the use of specific fonts, colours, line spacing or a combination of formats. 
Lloyds says these alternative formats are offered free of charge. But it says it 
doesnt offer the option Mr W has requested - which is to be sent everything 
by email.
Mr W hasnt registered for any of the alternative formats being offered. He 
says he doesnt understand why Lloyds cant email the documents to him. 
And, hes told us that the reason for this is because large print no longer 
meets his needs. He needs to amplify text in order to read it. If documents 
are emailed to him, he can use his phone to amplify the text. Hes also told 
us he cant read Braille. And, I think its reasonable for Mr W to ask for his 
documents in a format he can read for himself  rather than being offered 
audio as an alternative.
When considering whether Lloyds has acted fairly and reasonably, I have to 
take into consideration the laws, regulations and circumstances of each 
case. When Mr W informed Lloyds about his disability Id expect it to make 
reasonable adjustments to its processes and procedures so that its service 
was accessible to Mr W. Those adjustments should mean that he can use 
its services, as close as is reasonably possible, to get the standard usually 
offered to customers who dont have his disability.
Having considered everything here, I think Lloyds needs to do more to 
make reasonable adjustments to how it sends correspondence to Mr W, to 
meet his needs. And its Disability Support team should now proactively 
engage with Mr W to discuss with him the adaptations it can reasonably 
make to support his needs.
Ive also considered the distress and inconvenience Mr W has 
experienced as a result of what happened here. As Ive said, I dont think 
Lloyds has been responsive and flexible. And, because of that Mr W 
hasnt been able to read important documents and letters hes been sent. 
After he registered for paperless statements, he has been able to get his 
statements digitally  but theres still a significant number of documents 
that arent sent in this way.
The issues Mr W complains about have been ongoing for several years 
after he first alerted Lloyds to his visual impairment. Hes also had to ask 
other people to read private and confidential correspondence to him. So, I 
think Lloyds should compensate him for the significant and ongoing distress 
and inconvenience hes experienced as a result.Having thought about the impact of Lloyds actions, and the period of time 
this has been ongoing, my provisional decision is that it should pay Mr W 
£1500 by way of compensation.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I intend to 
uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank plc. And I think it should take the 
following action:
ensure that its Disability Support team engages with Mr W in a 
responsive and proactive way to discuss and agree the reasonable 
adjustments it can make to its services to meet his needs - 
explaining to this service what it can do to achieve this in response 
to this provisional decision; and
pay Mr W £1500 by way of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hes experienced as a result of what happened.
Mr W responded to my provisional decision. He made several initial comments which I have 
summarised below:
there were several examples of letters hed been sent by Lloyds. He attached copies 
of letters hed received from Lloyds in response to his complaint;
he had received statements by post. He hadnt retained copies of these;
he felt his privacy had been invaded each time hed had to ask others to read his 
financial documents;
the compensation was not enough, given the anxiety hed experienced; and
Lloyds Disability Team still hadnt contacted him.
Lloyds didnt respond to the provisional decision in line with the date that Id set out. It took a 
considerable period of time before it did respond. It told us that it wasnt possible for it to 
send everything to Mr W by email due to system constraints. It explained that it had several 
systems and whilst some of those systems could direct documents to be sent electronically 
via the App, other systems were not capable of doing that.
We told Mr W what Lloyds had said. He said the Equality Act required Lloyds to make 
reasonable adjustments. He told us he hadnt received anything from Lloyds via its App for 
over a year and he hadnt been getting any of his important documents during that period. 
He said he was able to get messages from Lloyds on his phone and he used software to 
listen to those messages. He reiterated that Lloyds had not engaged with him in response to 
the provisional decision. He said that if it had done so, he couldve presented it with some 
ideas about how it could meet his needs. For example, he thought that it could redirect 
letters to an administration team who could then convert those letters into emails. He said 
this was similar to what happened with letters that had to be converted to Braille.
Mr W also thought there were some points that hadnt been covered in the provisional 
decision:
Lloyds had sent him a letter in response to his complaint even though his complaint 
had been about the need for electronic communications;
He was concerned about how Personal Identification Numbers (PINs) would be sent 
to him; and
The delays by Lloyds.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what both Mr W and Lloyds have said. 
It has been disappointing that Lloyds delayed responding to the provisional decision. I am 
mindful that due to the coronavirus pandemic this has been a difficult time for many 
businesses as theyve had to adapt to new ways of working. But, I also wanted to make sure 
when considering this complaint, that I issued a decision which sought to resolve the matter. 
So, I think it was important to make sure that I fully considered what Lloyds had to tell us 
about its systems and what Mr W had told us about his requirements to be able to access 
his financial documents. For that reason, this decision has taken longer than I would have 
hoped. I am sorry that this has been the case.
When setting out how Ive decided this complaint should be resolved I have included my 
responses to the various points Mr W has made.
In my provisional decision I set out the types of letters Mr W had been getting from Lloyds. 
That list included responses to complaint letters and PIN advice notes. So, I did take that 
into account. Lloyds hasnt been able to explain why it didnt send the responses to the 
complaint by email. Im satisfied it could have done that and that was a factor I had 
considered when I issued my provisional decision.
Mr W has told us that he uses software to listen to messages Lloyds send him. So, that is 
already something he is familiar with and which he uses to have messages read to him. 
Lloyds says it cannot issue all documents via the App because of system constraints. It says 
it is currently trying to develop solutions to enhance its systems but hasnt been able to 
confirm when that development will be completed or what enhancements are possible. I 
accept what its said about the difficulties which it is trying to deal with, given the number of 
systems it has.
In these circumstances, I think it is fair and reasonable to require Lloyds to send 
Mr W any documents, which are not sent via the App, by audio CD. I realise that this means 
Mr W cannot zoom in on text should he want to do that. But, he will be able to listen to the 
documents (including PIN advices) and wont need to ask other people to read the 
documents to him. Lloyds has agreed to pay Mr W £50 by way of contribution to an audio 
CD device. I think that is fair and reasonable.
Ive noted what Mr W has said about the fact he hasnt received any documents, including 
statements, via the App since he logged his complaint with Lloyds. So, Ive decided that if 
Lloyds hasnt sent any documents to him via the App, which couldve been sent via the App, 
in the period since he logged his complaint (April 2020), it should do so now. Lloyds has 
confirmed to our service that it can update its systems overnight. 
As I mentioned above Lloyds has delayed responding to the provisional decision and, 
although there may be explanations for why that happened, I think it has exacerbated the 
distress and inconvenience Mr W has experienced. So, Ive decided that the amount of 
compensation for distress and inconvenience should be increased to £1700 (in total). 
I know that this decision falls short of what Mr W wanted. But, Ive had to decide, taking 
everything into account, what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint. I am satisfied that the actions Ive required Lloyds to take here, will mean that it can allow Mr W to access all his documents in a way that doesnt require him to ask other 
people to read them to him. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank plc. I now require it 
to:
 
confirm to Mr W the documents that it will continue to make available 
to him using its internet banking App;
any documents which are usually issued via the App but which have 
not been issued since the date Mr W complained to Lloyds ( April 
2020) should now be issued to him via the App;
make immediate arrangements to send all documents, which are not 
issued via the App, to Mr W by Audio CD;
pay Mr W £50 by way of contribution to the purchase of a CD player of 
his choice; and
pay Mr W £1700 (in total) for the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced as a result of what happened. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman