DRN-3174990
The complaint
 Mr H has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-informed him whilst on 
holiday that he did not have a Premier Travel pack attached to his current account.
Mr H believes that he was not covered by this pack and therefore wants the monthly fees he 
paid for this pack refunded.
What happened
  I issued a provisional decision on 3 December 2021. In that decision I explained why I 
thought that this complaint should be upheld in part. 
I have included an extract of my provisional decision below
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive kept 
that approach in mind when considering this case.
In this instance it is clear from the information provided by Mr H that he was told that he did 
not have the Premier Travel Pack on his account. Mr H has explained that him being told this 
means he was never covered under the Travel insurance so he would like a full refund of the 
pack fees that he has paid. But I am satisfied that he was paying for the Premier Travel Pack 
and therefore wouldve been covered under the travel insurance (subject to the terms of the 
policy) and therefore what he was told was incorrect. 
It follows that it would not be appropriate for Mr H to receive a full refund of all the pack fees 
that he paid, because if hed needed to make a claim, we wouldve expected Barclays to 
have corrected its error.
When a consumer is misinformed by a financial institution we generally try and put the 
consumer back into position that they wouldve been in had they been given the correct 
information. In this instance I cant see that Mr H actually suffered a financial loss as a result 
of this misinformation. 
But I am satisfied that being told that he did not have travel insurance whilst he was on 
holiday must have caused Mr H significant distress, especially as, in this instance, this 
occurred during a global pandemic.
I therefore think that it would be appropriate to make an award for the distress and 
inconvenience that this misinformation caused Mr H.
putting things right
Having carefully considered all the circumstances of this complaint to put thing right Barclays 
should pay Mr H £300 to reflect the distress and inconvenience that this matter has caused.
In response to my provisional decision Mr H and Barclays raised additional points. I will 
address the pertinent ones below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, in summary Mr H has said the following;
Insurance companies in general try to not pay out claims.
If he had to make a claim on the travel insurance it would not have been successful.
Barclays has raised the following points;
Mr H may not have actually been covered under the travel insurance policy anyway 
depending on the length of this stay and whether he was actually on holiday.
Mr H was directed to call the Feature store team who may have been able to resolve 
the matter.
Mr H was told that the payment for the pack was showing on his account so being 
told that he did not have the pack would not have caused much distress.
Firstly, I should highlight that it is not my role to speculate on what theoretically may or may 
not have happened, had Mr H attempted to make a claim under the travel insurance policy. 
Neither would it be appropriate to find out the exact circumstances of Mr Hs holiday in order 
for me to speculate if he wouldve have been covered for a potential claim as there are a 
number of different types of claims to consider. I can only award compensation for losses or 
distress that actually occurred, rather than losses that may have occurred.
It is clear from Mr Hs testimony that he was distressed by being mis-informed by Barclays. 
So I believe that he should receive compensation for this distress. I note Barclays comments 
that the issue could have been resolved quickly. But from the evidence that I have been 
provided with, I cant say that the misinformation was cleared up quickly. Im also not 
persuaded that finding out that Barclays could see the Premier Travel pack payment on the 
account, but not the pack itself, would somehow mitigate the distress of being told that the 
pack wasnt on the account. If anything, it makes it worse as all it suggests is that he was 
paying for something and not receiving the benefit of it.
That said, I should highlight again that in general, in cases of misinformation this service 
tries to put a consumer back into the position that they wouldve been in had they been given 
the correct information, rather than putting them into the position they wouldve been in had 
the incorrect information been true. So I dont think its reasonable to require Barclays to 
refund the Pack fees. Because if things had gone as they shouldve, I think Barclays 
wouldve confirmed that Mr H did have the travel insurance that he was paying for through 
his account.
I remain of the opinion that being told that you dont have travel insurance whilst being on 
holiday in America during a global pandemic and having to then spend time trying to get 
clarification from Barclays merits £300 in compensation.
So overall, and having considered everything, I believe that Barclays should pay £300 in compensation for the distress caused by this matter.  
My final decision
 Because of the reasons given above Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr H £300 in 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman