DRN-4070818
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy with the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) handled her 
claim under her home emergency policy for a broken boiler and faulty toilet.
Reference to RSAs actions includes those of its agents.
What happened
Briefly, Ms M made two claims under her home emergency policy: one for her broken boiler 
and one for her toilet which wouldnt flush properly. 
RSA sent engineers to fix both the leaking boiler and faulty toilet flush. But Ms M had to 
request repeat visits for both faults because they hadnt been fixed properly. 
As a gesture of goodwill, RSA agreed to fix the bathroom fan. The toilet was eventually fixed 
after around three weeks. The boiler was fixed more than two months later. But Ms M was 
unhappy with the standard of workmanship, the mess left behind, the unfinished bathroom 
fan repair, and the delay completing the repairs. She said it had been particularly difficult 
because:
she had to ask an elderly relative to travel to help tidy up after the engineers had left 
her home in a mess;
she used more heating due to the loss of heat through the open loft where the 
engineers had left the ladders down, 
and she felt the full effect of her health and vulnerability as a result of RSAs actions.
RSA upheld Ms Ms complaint. It agreed that its standard of workmanship was poor, and that 
Ms M shouldnt have needed the repeat visits or experienced the avoidable inconvenience. 
In recognition of the shortfalls, RSA awarded Ms M a total of £400 by way of apology.
Ms M didnt think that was enough because RSA hadnt addressed all parts of her complaint. 
The issues remaining included:
RSAs engineers had written unprofessional comments on her new floorboards in 
permanent marker.
RSA hadnt acknowledged the mess left in her bathroom and the inconvenience of 
having to arrange cleaning.
The additional cost of heating.
The electrician costs for checking her electrics after RSAs engineers left them 
exposed.
Our investigator didnt think RSA had handled Ms Ms claim with professionalism and she 
didnt think £400 compensation was enough to put matters right. Our investigator 
recommended that RSA pay a further £150 compensation and arrange for the floorboards to 
be professionally cleaned or replaced. She also said it would be reasonable for RSA to pay 
the cost of the electrician and additional heating subject to Ms M providing evidence of the 
costs.
RSA didnt respond to our investigators view, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Ms complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator.
Firstly, Ill point out that RSA hasnt provided any information in respect of this complaint, so 
my consideration is limited to the evidence Ms M provided. That said, Ms M provided copies 
of RSAs responses to her complaint so Im aware of its offers to her and the reasons for 
them.
Having considered the evidence, its clear that RSA agreed it didnt handle Ms Ms claim as 
well as it shouldve done. In recognition of some of the shortfalls, it offered £400 
compensation. Im satisfied its offer is in line with what Id expect in the circumstances RSA 
set out in its final responses. As this matter isnt in dispute, Ill move on to the outstanding 
issues.
Ms M complained that RSA left her house in a mess, with work unfinished after its 
contractors left suddenly. She provided photos of the rubble and dust, the poor 
workmanship, and the graffiti on the floorboards. 
The photos support what Ms M said about the workmanship and unprofessional actions so, 
in the absence of any contradictory evidence, I think its reasonable to conclude that RSA fell 
short of expected standards. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that a fair and reasonable outcome would be for RSA to pay a further 
£150 compensation by way of apology for the service shortfalls not addressed in its two final 
responses to Ms Ms complaint. In addition, RSA should replace Ms Ms floorboard or clean 
off the graffiti, and arrange or pay for the cost of the fan to be fixed.
Ms M said she incurred electrician costs for checking the exposed wires, and additional 
heating costs because the loft ladders were left down. If Ms M provides evidence directly to 
RSA of the electrician cost and the uplift in energy used until her loft ladders were moved, 
then RSA should reimburse the full amount evidenced.
I note Ms M raised some further matters not addressed here. As RSA hadnt been given an 
opportunity to respond to the new issues, they will be considered under a new complaint. Ms 
M is aware of this.
Overall, the limited evidence available persuades me that RSA failed to handle Ms Ms claim 
with the appropriate standard of professionalism that she could reasonably expect under her 
policy. While RSA has gone some way in trying to put matters right, I agree with Ms M that 
its not enough.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Royal & 
Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must:
pay for Ms Ms floorboards defaced by its agents to be replaced or professionally 
cleaned;upon receipt of evidence, pay for the additional heating cost incurred while the loft 
ladders were left down;
upon receipt of evidence, reimburse Ms M for the cost she incurred of having an 
electrician check her wiring after it was left exposed;
repair, or pay for the repair of Ms Ms bathroom fan, which was left unfinished by its 
agents, and 
pay a further £150 compensation, bringing the total to £550, in recognition of its 
failure to provide the expected level of professionalism when handling Ms Ms claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman