DRN-3818642
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Barclays Banks UK PLC wont refund all the money he lost as part of a 
scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons:
Barclays has already accepted this payment was out of character  and that it 
shouldve done more to warn Mr A that he might be the victim of a scam. So the only 
issue for me to decide is whether it was fair to refund Mr A 50% of what he lost on 
the basis that he was partly to blame for his losses.
The starting point for contributory negligence is considering what a reasonable 
person would be expected to have done in the circumstances  and whether Mr As 
actions fell below that.
Having reviewed the circumstances of the scam, I think there were red flags Mr A 
ought reasonably to have picked up on. Namely: 
oThe cost of the car was considerably less than the retail value for a car like 
the one described. Mr A submits the price was reasonable as it was second 
hand, and the seller was looking for a quick sale for his brothers car who 
passed away. But I dont think thats enough to justify the extent of the 
discount. From my research looking at similar used cars, this was around half 
the price. So I think Mr A ought to have been worried it was too good to be 
true. 
oThe delivery was included in the cost, and Mr A was offered the chance to 
inspect the car for seven days before he committed to buying it. Given the 
discounted cost of the car and how far it was from Mr As location, I think Mr A 
ought to have questioned whether it sounded realistic to offer delivery and 
return cost free of charge. 
oMr A was asked to make the payment outside of eBay using a company that 
he was unfamiliar with. He said he was reassured from his research that it 
was a legitimate company. But I cant see its connection to eBay or facilitating 
private bank transfers. So I think Mr A ought to have asked more questions 
here.
I recognise Mr A carried out checks on the car and took steps to verify the seller. But 
it remains that he was buying a car hed not seen at a substantial discount. And 
looking at these red flags in the round, I think he reasonably ought to have done 
more to satisfy himself that it was legitimate before making a payment. It follows that, 
in the circumstances of this case, Im satisfied that a 50% deduction is fair to reflect 
Mr As contributory negligence.
Barclays also paid Mr A £200 compensation to reflect its delays handling Mr As 
concerns. With his contributory negligence in mind, Im satisfied thats a fair reflection 
of the distress and inconvenience caused by Barclays handling of the problem. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman