DRN-4069166
Complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) reported adverse information 
to credit reference agencies about his overdraft once it closed his account.
Background
In April 2022, Halifax took the decision to close Mr Ts account and it sent him a letter 
confirming that it would be doing so in two months. On the day Mr Ts account was due for 
closure two direct debits were paid causing the account to go overdrawn. 
As a result Mr Ts account was closed with an overdrawn balance and after it didnt receive 
payment Halifax started reporting adverse information to credit reference agencies. Mr T 
repaid the balance in October 2022 but was unhappy with the adverse information that had 
been reported and complained as a result.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ts concerns. She didnt think that Halifax had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr T unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr T disagreed with our adjudicators conclusions and asked for an ombudsmans review. 
So the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Halifax acted unfairly towards Mr T 
and so Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Mr T, a bank is generally under no obligation to continue 
offering accounts to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. And as long as it provides 
reasonable notice a bank has no obligation to share its reasons for its decision to close an 
account. 
In this case Halifax provided Mr T with two-months notice ahead of his account being 
closed. Its also worth noting that the whole purpose of a bank providing notice in this way is  
ensure that a customer has enough time to make alternative banking arrangements. And in 
this case there appears to be no dispute that Mr T knew his account was due to close in 
June 2022. 
However, on the day it was due to close, two direct debit payments totalling £295.44 left       
Mr Ts account. As a result this left Mr Ts account with an overdrawn balance on the day his 
account was due to close. Ive seen records indicating that Mr T was sent a number of text 
messages telling him his account was overdrawn. 
Furthermore, given the amount of the payments, I would have expected Mr T to have 
realised that they hadnt been made through any alternative banking arrangements he would 
have put in place, given he would have still had those funds.   
So I think that Mr T ought to have been on notice that he may have had a balance owing on 
his Halifax account. Im also mindful that Halifax wrote to Mr T in July 2022 asking him to get 
in touch about his account. I appreciate that Mr T says he didnt receive this letter. 
But Mr T in any event did have a conversation over the phone with Halifax at the beginning 
of August 2022. And it doesnt appear to be in dispute that at this point he was told that hed 
have to go to a branch to repay the outstanding balance remaining because the account was 
closed. 
Im therefore satisfied that Mr T was on notice that his account had an overdrawn balance 
which he had to go into branch to repay by the beginning of August 2022 at the absolute 
latest. And as Mr T didnt make the payment required to clear the balance until                     
October 2022, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Halifax to report the information it did 
to credit reference agencies as it had a duty to report accurate information and this is what it 
was doing.
In reaching my decision, Ive taken into account that Mr T has said he wasnt able to make a 
transfer to his account or make a payment over the phone. But this was because the 
account had been closed. And while I appreciate that it might have been more inconvenient 
for Mr T to have to visit a branch to make his payment, I dont think that this accounts for it 
taking him almost three months from when he was told he had to go into branch in order to 
clear the balance to him doing so.    
Finally, I know that Mr T believes that during a call with one of its members of staff Halifax 
told him it would remove the adverse information it had reported. However, Im satisfied that 
the person Mr T spoke said that theyd see if this could be done, rather than confirming that 
it would be done. In any event, I think that what Halifax has reported accurately reflects what 
happened, so I dont think that it is unfairly reporting adverse information about Mr Ts 
overdraft. 
I realise that Halifaxs decision to close Mr Ts account and then report adverse information 
about his overdraft will have been very disappointing to him. But overall Im satisfied that 
Halifax has acted in accordance with its terms and conditions and in a way thats consistent 
with its obligations in relation to what it reports to credit reference agencies. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Halifax has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr T 
and Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr T. But I hope hell understand the reasons 
for my decision and that hell appreciate why Im satisfied that Halifax hasnt treated him 
unfairly in this instance.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman