DRN-3218049
The complaint
Mr C complains an agent of Aviva Insurance Limited removed items from his car following a 
claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C was unfortunately involved in an incident where his car was damaged. It was taken to a 
garage who Ill call S. After S looked at things, Mr Cs car was deemed a total loss. He was 
in discussions with Aviva about accepting their offer  when a company who Ill call C picked 
up his car from S. C should have been instructed once Mr C had accepted their offer, so 
they acted earlier than they should have. 
Mr C ultimately accepted an offer from Aviva regarding the total loss  and went to his car to 
retrieve items from it. He said he noticed when going to the car several items were missing; 
a disabled badge for a family member, a pair of expensive sunglasses, a gold ring, and a 
gold bracelet. Mr C said hed heard from a lot of people about how bad C are  and because 
C had picked his car up when they shouldnt have, he thought theyd stolen his items. So, he 
complained to Aviva, and says once hed started complaining, the disabled badge turned up 
in the post  but not the other items.
Aviva said theyd spoken to C and S. They said C told them the car was full of items when it 
was picked up. S said theyd told Mr C to remove his items from the car before C came to 
collect it, and then emailed him to confirm that. Aviva said when the driver turned up the 
collect the car from Mr Cs address it had a large number of items in it  and says Mr C told 
them he didnt have time to remove them. Aviva said it wasnt unreasonable for the garage 
to ask for the items to be removed  and as Mr C had been told to do so, they wouldnt be 
responsible for the missing items. They said no proof of these missing items had been 
received, nor any explanation about why Mr C would leave such high value items in the car. 
But they said he had cover for personal belongings, which had a policy limit of £150  and 
they said theyd be prepared to pay this in a genuine attempt to resolve the issue.
Unhappy with this Mr C contacted us. He says he wasnt told to remove all items from the 
car  nor did he say he didnt have any time to remove the items. He said Aviva are trying to 
tell him they have no responsibility, but they didnt say anything like this to him beforehand. 
He said Aviva had offered £150 which to him is like an admission of guilt. So, he asked us to 
look into things. One of our Investigators did so, and asked Mr C more questions about why 
hed left the items in the car. Having considered all of this, overall, he felt Aviva had acted 
fairly, so didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr C said his items had been stolen and wanted us to consider that. Our Investigator said 
its not for us to decide if items have or havent been stolen, its to consider if Aviva have 
acted fairly  and he felt they had. As Mr C continued to disagree, the complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our Investigator has explained, I cant decide if a theft has taken place and that isnt my 
role or the role of our service. It does appear from the information Ive got C had picked up 
Mr Cs car earlier than they should have. At the time, Mr C was discussing a total loss 
settlement and matters hadnt been finalised. But I think the key question here is whether 
Aviva have acted fairly in deciding the outcome of Mr Cs complaint.
Ive noted Mr C says he wasnt told to take items out of his car before it was to be taken to S. 
Aviva have said he was told this verbally, and then by email as well. Theyve provided a 
copy of this email, and it does tell Mr C to remove his personal items from the car. 
Ive also been provided with photos of the car, showing the boot of the car was filled up with 
a lot of items. I cant know if Avivas right, when they said Mr C told them he didnt have time 
to clear out the car, or if hes right when he says he never told them that. But I can say a lot 
of items where left in the car when it was picked up. So, that could suggest Mr C didnt clear 
out the car as hed been advised to.
Regardless of this though, Id need to be satisfied Mr C had left the items in the car, and that 
C (as hes alleged) took the items out of the car. Ive not been provided with enough 
evidence to show this. So, I cant fairly conclude the items were left in the car and then 
removed by C. Ive noted Mr Cs comments the disabled badge was returned, but I dont 
think this in itself proves the remaining three items were left in the car and then removed by 
C. In any event, I can see Aviva have offered to pay Mr C the policy limit of personal 
belongings section of his policy of £150.
Taking everything into account, Ive not been provided with enough evidence to show Mr C 
has suffered the loss hes claimed for  and I think in the circumstances Aviva have acted 
fairly in how theyve offered to resolve matters.
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited have already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint and 
I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Aviva Insurance 
Limited should pay £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman