DRN-4281478
The complaint
Mr A has complained Nationwide Building Society has lodged a fraud-related marker on the 
industry fraud database, CIFAS, which has stopped him opening up a bank account.
What happened
In early 2023 Mr A tried to open a bank account. His application was rejected. He was told 
this was because of a fraud-related marker showing on his record. He contacted CIFAS, the 
industry fraud database, to see what records they held about him. This confirmed 
Nationwide considered Mr A had made a false application to them for an account. Mr A 
contacted Nationwide and told them hed not applied to open an account with them. He 
asked them to remove the record from CIFAS.
Nationwide felt they had sufficient evidence to lodge the record with CIFAS and refused to 
do what Mr A asked them to do. Mr A brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our adjudicator reviewed the evidence and believed this showed it was most likely Mr A had 
made the application to open an account with Nationwide. As false information had been 
provided in support of this, he wasnt going to ask Nationwide to do anything further.
Mr A disagreed with this outcome. Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our adjudicator. Ill explain why.
It is clear what the requirements are prior to lodging a marker. Specifically:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial crime has 
been committed or attempted.
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently 
report the conduct of the subject to the police.
So Nationwide must be able to provide clear evidence that an identified fraud was being 
committed and Mr A was involved. 
Ive seen the evidence provided to Nationwide in December 2021 in support of a application 
to open a bank account. This included a utility bill. Our adjudicator checked the status of the 
bill with the relevant energy provider. Im in no doubt based on what has been said that the 
utility bill is fake. Mr A wasnt the bill payer for the energy supplied at the address he said he 
was living at during this period.
I also need to consider whether Mr A was, in fact, the individual making the application to 
open an account with Nationwide. Mr A has not been completely consistent on this aspect as 
he originally denied this wasnt him but later suggested he did indeed make one application 
 as opposed to the three different applications in December 2021, July and December 2022 
 Nationwide received.
However based on the evidence Ive seen, I think it was most likely Mr A making the original 
application. It was following this application that Nationwide lodged the CIFAS marker. The 
address used to support this application is an address Mr A has said he was living at with 
relatives during this time period. The mobile phone number and email address on the 
application also matched details with Mr As. 
I know Mr A has told us he lost his pay-to-go mobile in 2021 before any application was 
made but like our adjudicator, I think its unlikely an unknown third party would apply for an 
account using details which would enable Nationwide to contact Mr A easily. Nationwide 
confirmed to Mr A, by email at an address I believe he held at the time, that his application 
was unsuccessful. 
Although not the subject of the complaint, I note that subsequent applications to open a 
Nationwide application also used addresses that Mr A has confirmed he lived at for certain 
periods.
On this basis I believe there was sufficient evidence of a fraud to enable Nationwide to lodge 
a marker with CIFAS for a false application made in Mr As name.
I wont be asking Nationwide to do anything further. As my colleague has already confirmed 
to Mr A, despite the existence of this marker, he should still be able to open a basic bank 
account with certain institutions.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr As complaint against 
Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman