DRN-3362701
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H complain about the actions of Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) when they 
were tricked into transferring money as a result of a scam.
Mrs H is the lead complainant to this service, so Ill refer to her throughout the decision.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In 2020 Mrs H was having building work 
carried out at her property. In January 2020 she sent £14,000 to her builder towards the cost 
of the work. Mrs H was then contacted in February 2020 from her builders email address 
asking to make a further payment of £14,000. And on 29 February 2020 Mrs H made a 
further £14,000 payment to the bank details she was given by who she thought was her 
builder. 
Mrs H spoke to YBS on 02 March 2020 to try and stop the payment and said her builders 
email account had been hacked. But YBS told her to speak to the builder so he could first 
speak to his bank to see if anything could be done. Mrs H called back later that day and YBS 
then raised the claim as a scam and contacted the beneficiary bank. YBS investigated the 
claim and decided that it didnt do anything wrong when the payment was released. But it did 
say it couldve provided a better service when the scam was raised and investigated, so it 
offered £145 compensation.  
Mrs H remained unhappy so she brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. YBS 
reviewed the complaint and made a further offer of compensation bringing its total offer to 
£275. Our Investigator didnt think the payment was sufficiently unusual or suspicious for 
YBS to stop it and ask questions of Mrs H about it. And that the £275 YBS had offered was 
fair for the service it had provided. 
Mrs H didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said YBS shouldve done 
more to stop the payment and that she was surprised that such a large payment could be 
sent so easily without any further checks. Mrs H added that if YBS has raised the scam in a 
timely fashion when she first contacted it on 02 March 2020, she wouldve received her 
money back. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator  that this complaint 
should be upheld in part. And for largely the same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mrs H has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. I know she feels strongly about this complaint and this will 
come as a disappointment to her, so Ill explain why. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
It is common ground that Mrs H authorised the £1,000 scam payment. I accept that this was 
an authorised payment even though Mrs H was the victim of a scam. She provided valid 
instructions through her online banking. So, although it wasnt her intention to pay money to 
the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms of her 
account, Mrs H is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate
for YBS to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in 
order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
YBSs first obligation is to follow the instruction that Mrs H provided. But if that
instruction is sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the account, Id expect YBS to 
intervene and to ask their customer more about the intended transaction before processing 
it. Id also expect YBS to provide suitable warnings, if they do stop a transaction, about 
common scams to help their customers make an informed decision as to whether to 
continue with the payment. There might also be cases where its appropriate for YBS to 
refuse to follow the instruction if there are good grounds to believe it is being made as a 
result of a fraud or scam. 
The starting point here is whether the instruction by Mrs H given to YBS to transfer £14,000 
was unusual in relation to her typical account activity. So, Ive reviewed the account 
statements for the six months prior to the scam payments being made. I think this gives a 
sufficient sample size to fairly assess the activity. The account was used sparingly and 
typically maintained a high balance with over £40,000 left in the account after the second 
£14,000 payment was made to the scammer. 
There was also a genuine transfer to Mrs Hs builders for the same amount the month before 
the scam payment. I accept the second payment was to a different account but there is a 
balance to be struck between stopping and checking payments and allowing customers free 
access to their money. And Im satisfied that the earlier payment to Mrs Hs genuine builder 
established a pattern of spending on her account where it wasnt unusual for her to send 
larger payments from time to time. 
As a result, in this case, I dont think its reasonable to have expected YBS to have 
intervened.
Putting things right
YBS incorrectly told Mrs H to speak to her builder before it raised the scam. So whilst its 
possible that the scam shouldve been raised slightly sooner than it was, I dont think it 
makes a difference here. Thats because Ive received evidence from YBS which confirms 
that Mrs Hs money was received in the beneficiary account on 01 March 2020 and then 
transferred out the same day. So, when the scam was raised with YBS the following day the 
money was no longer in the account. YBS has admitted it didnt provide the service it would expect here. Its offered a total of 
£275 compensation to Mrs H. I understand the distress that this situation has caused  but 
ultimately, its the scammer that has caused this issue. And, as Ive explained above, I dont 
think YBS treated Mrs H unfairly when allowing the payment to be sent. YBS has said it 
couldve communicated more clearly with Mrs H when the scam was raised, but for the 
reasons Ive explained, this didnt make a difference to whether or not Mrs H couldve had 
her money returned. So, I think YBSs offer to pay £275 is fair. 
So, Im not going to ask YBS to do anything more here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Yorkshire Building Society has 
already made an offer to pay Mr H and Mrs H £275 compensation in total for this complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman