DRN-2773469
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Available Car Ltd (ACL) delayed paying compensation for a mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Mrs C wants to be compensated for the distress 
and inconvenience she experienced due to the delay.   
What happened
Mrs C complained about a PPI policy sold to her by ACL with a loan in 2006.
In July 2019 Mrs C received a letter from ACL. The letter stated that after discussions with 
the lender her complaint would be upheld.
The letter went on to say that the lender would provide a refund of all premiums paid whilst 
ACL would provide compensatory interest calculated at 8% simple for the time Mrs C was 
out of pocket. 
Mrs C accepted the offer but asked this service to step in September 2019 after she didnt 
receive the compensation.
My understanding is that Mrs C received £1,188.80 from ACL in November 2020, this 
represented compensatory interest for the time shed been out of pocket. It wasnt until 
March 2021 that she received £1,165.79 from the lender which represented a refund of PPI 
premiums paid together with contractual interest caused by the PPI being added to the loan.
An adjudicator from this service thought ACL should pay Mrs C an additional £150 due to the 
distress and inconvenience she had experienced while chasing payment for over a year.
ACL has told us it wasnt responsible for the delay because it was waiting for the lender to 
provide it with the figures it needed to calculate and pay Mrs C the redress.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and I will explain why.
I see that Mrs C has now received a refund of all the PPI premiums and the interest she paid 
because the PPI was added to the loan. Mrs C has also received compensatory interest 
calculated at 8% simple for the time she has been out of pocket. So I am satisfied she has 
been properly compensated for the actual mis-sale of the policy. So Ive next looked at 
whether Mrs C should receive further compensation due to the delay in making payment to 
her.
ACL sold the policy to Mrs C, so ACL is responsible for the complaint and as such it was 
also responsible for ensuring Mrs C received compensation to Mrs C for the mis-sale of the 
policy in good time. 
However I note ACL seems to have an arrangement with the lender where they jointly 
investigate such complaints. And where a PPI is found to be mis-sold, the lender calculates 
and refunds the premiums and loan interest caused by the PPI, while ACL compensates the 
consumer for the time theyve been out of pocket. 
I do have a degree of sympathy with ACL as it needed the co-operation of the lender in order 
to calculate and make payment to Mrs C. I can see it made attempts to obtain the figures it 
needed from the lender, but there seems to have been a breakdown in communication 
between the lender and ACL.
But ultimately ACL is responsible for the complaint and the handling of the complaint, 
including payment of any compensation that is due.
In this case Mrs C received an offer of compensation in July 2019 but had to wait well over a 
year before receiving compensation. This caused her a lot of inconvenience chasing the 
payment, referring the complaint to this service, providing evidence and receiving updates. I 
also note ACL at one point told Mrs C to contact the lender herself which caused her even 
more inconvenience. And during this time Ive no doubt she would have experienced some 
distress while waiting for the compensation.
The adjudicator thought £150 was fair compensation for the delay. But taking everything into 
account, including the unreasonably lengthy delay I think a figure of £250 is fair 
compensation.
If ACL still considers that the lender is wholly or partly responsible for the delays then ACL 
should take that up with the lender.
Putting things right
ACL should pay Mrs C £250 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience she 
experienced due to the unreasonable delay in paying her the compensation she was due. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Available Car Ltd to pay Mrs C 
£250 as compensation for the delay in receiving payment of compensation for the mis-sale 
of a PPI policy.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman