DRN-3729190
The complaint
Mr W says NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua (NewDay Ltd) irresponsibly lent to him. He has 
requested that the interest and late payment charges he paid be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card taken out on 24 August 2013 with an initial credit limit 
of £500. This limit was increased on 17 March 2016 to £1,200, to £2,200 on 29 September 
2016 and to £3,100 on 29 May 2017. 
Mr W says hes unhappy that NewDay Ltd increased his credit limits on the account when 
he was in financial difficulties.
The complaint about the initial lending in 2013 has been brought too late. But the complaint 
about the credit limit increases was assessed by our adjudicator and the complaint was 
upheld. Our adjudicator thought that the credit increases were examples of unreasonable 
lending, as the existing pattern of lending ought to have shown NewDay Ltd that Mr W 
wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any further credit by the time it raised the credit 
limits. 
NewDay Ltd has not responded to our adjudicators assessment, so, the complaint has 
therefore passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
NewDay Ltd needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that NewDay Ltd should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of NewDay Ltds lending history with Mr W, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which NewDay Ltd should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was likely unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. If so, that would mean NewDay 
Ltd should have realised that it shouldnt have provided further credit. Our adjudicator 
thought that there was such a point on 17 March 2016. Having considered all the 
submissions in this case, I agree. I will explain why I say that.
NewDay Ltd should not have provided new credit limits on the Aqua card, because the credit 
it provided already had led to the full credit limit being used and Mr W had exhibited a 
pattern of late payments and of being over his credit limit. In the two years before the credit 
increase, I have noted overlimit fees were paid in eleven of the 24 months and over limit fees 
were paid in a further six months. And whilst there werent so many fees paid in the four 
months before the credit limit increase, I have noted the balance at the time of the credit 
increase was £498.81. The balance two years earlier was £513.37. 
So, in the two years before NewDay Ltd increased Mr Ws credit limit, there were 17 monthly 
charges attributable to Mr W not managing his account well, and the balance had not 
reduced in any discernible way. Mr W had been unable to make any headway into repaying 
his balance. The pattern of lending demonstrates that in the two years before the credit 
increase in March 2016, Mr W was not managing his account well and was unable to pay 
down the credit he had access to. And NewDay Ltds solution to Mr Ws inability to manage 
his existing credit was to increase his access to credit.
I think the pattern of lending on the account should have suggested to NewDay Ltd that it 
was likely that Mr W would have been unable to reduce the increasing debt on the 
account whilst at the same time having to meet his daily living expenses and other credit 
commitments, most likely. 
So, I think that proportionate checks would likely have shown NewDay Ltd that Mr W was 
in difficulty with managing his account alongside his other debts and day-to-day living 
expenses. I also think there was a significant risk that further increases to his credit could 
have led to his indebtedness increasing unsustainably, such that he had no funds 
available to meet his debts and regular outgoings. 
It follows that I think that Mr W lost out because NewDay Ltd provided him with further 
credit from 17 March 2016 onwards. In my view, NewDay Ltds actions unfairly prolonged 
Mr Ws indebtedness by allowing him to use credit he couldnt afford over an extended 
period of time and the interest being added would only have the effect of putting him into 
further debt. 
It follows that NewDay Ltd should put things right.Putting things right
rework the account to ensure that all interest, fees and charges that have been 
applied to balances over £500 are removed. and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments have 
been made NewDay Ltd should contact Mr W to arrange suitable repayment 
plans. If NewDay Ltd considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr 
Ws credit file, it should backdate this to 17 March 2016.
Or
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr W, along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the 
date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding 
balance, or balances, remain after all adjustments have been made, then NewDay 
Ltd should remove any adverse information recorded after 17 March 2016 from Mr 
Ws credit file.
As NewDay Ltd sold the outstanding balances on the account to a third party debt
purchaser, it either needs to buy the account back from the third party and make the 
necessary adjustments; pay an amount to the third party so it can make the necessary 
adjustments; or pay
Mr W an amount to ensure that it fully complies with this direction.
HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay Ltd to take off tax from this interest. NewDay 
Ltd must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If 
NewDay Ltd intends to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding balance, it must do so 
after deducting
the tax.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua 
should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022. 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman