DRN-2544684
The complaint
Mr W believes that Vanquis Bank Limited lent to him irresponsibly and that had sufficient 
checks been performed, both at the time of the initial credit card application and the 
subsequent credit limit increases, it would have been apparent that this lending was not 
affordable for him. 
What happened
Mr W applied for a credit card with Vanquis in May 2018. The application was successful, 
and Vanquis issued Mr W with a credit card with an initial credit limit of £500.
In December 2018 Vanquis offered to increase the level of credit on the card to £1,500. A 
further offer to increase the credit limit to £2,500 was made in May 2019. In both instance, 
Mr W did not decline the credit limit increases offered, and so they were implemented by 
Vanquis.
Towards the end of 2019, Mr W made a complaint to Vanquis. Mr W felt that his financial 
circumstances were such that he hadnt been able to afford the credit card both at the time 
that he initially applied for it, and at the times of the subsequent credit limit increases. Mr W 
also felt that this should have been apparent to Vanquis, had they undertaken appropriate 
checks into his financial circumstances at those times.
Vanquis responded to Mr Ws complaint in December 2019. Vanquis felt that they had 
undertaken sufficient checks into Mr Ws financial position and noted that as a result of those 
checks it remained their position that the offers of credit to Mr W were appropriate and that 
they hadnt lent to Mr W irresponsibly. So, Vanquis didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with this response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that Vanquis hadnt acted inappropriately 
in initially approving Mr W for the credit card, or when they later increased the credit limit on 
the card to £1.500. However, our investigator was concerned about Mr Ws circumstances at 
the time of the second credit limit increase to £2,500, as it appeared that Mr Ws level of 
indebtedness had increased significantly around this time.
Vanquis responded to our investigator and explained that while it was the case that Mr Ws 
level of debt had gone up around the time that the second credit limit had been approved, 
the large increase in indebtedness had only occurred after the credit limit increase had taken 
place, and so knowledge of this debt increase hadnt been available to them when making 
their assessment. Because of this, Vanquis felt that they it had been appropriate for them to 
approve the credit limit increase to £2,500, based on the information that they had available 
to them at that time. Our investigator agreed with Vanquis explanation, and so they didnt 
uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W remained dissatisfied, so his complaint was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It's for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to someone and, if so, how much and 
on what terms. What we'd expect is that a lender carries out reasonable and proportionate 
checks as to the affordability of any lending. So thats what Ive considered here in reaching 
my decision.
Vanquis business model includes second-chance lending, and so its not unusual for 
Vanquis to receive applications for credit from people with levels of existing debt. That 
doesnt mean that they shouldnt carry out reasonable and proportionate checks before they 
lend to a customer. 
Here, Mr W was first approved for the credit card in May 2018. As part of the credit card 
application process Vanquis reviewed the information that Mr W had provided to Vanquis 
during his application and checked Mr Ws credit file. The credit check showed Vanquis that 
Mr W did have a level of non-mortgage debt at that time, but it also showed that Mr W hadnt 
defaulted on any of his existing debt. 
It appeared from Mr Ws credit file that he was actively managing his existing debt without 
issue at that time and hadnt missed any scheduled repayments. And there was nothing in 
the information that Mr W had provided Vanquis himself that gave Vanquis cause to consider 
that the credit card might be unaffordable for him. So, its difficult for me to conclude that 
Vanquis have acted inappropriately when they approved Mr W for a credit card with an initial 
limit of £500, because it appears from the information that Vanquis had available to them 
that that this credit facility was affordable to Mr W, at that time.
I understand that Mr W feels that, had Vanquis undertaken more robust checks into his 
personal circumstances, they may have arrived at a different conclusion. However, as 
mentioned above, it is expected that a credit provider undertakes checks that are reasonable 
and proportionate, and Im satisfied that the level of checks that Vanquis undertook here 
meet these criteria, especially considering the relatively low credit limit that Mr W was 
approved for. 
In December 2018, Vanquis authorised an increase of the credit limit on the card to £1,500, 
and in May 2018 they authorised a further credit limit increase to £2,500. For both limit 
increases, Vanquis undertook a further check of Mr Ws credit file and assessed Mr Ws 
management of the Vanquis credit card to those times. 
Vanquis have noted that there was nothing in Mr Ws management of their credit card that 
gave them cause to suspect that Mr W was struggling to afford the repayments, and also 
that his credit file demonstrated that his overall level of indebtedness was steadily 
decreasing over time, and also that Mr W appeared to be maintaining his other debt 
repayments without incident. Ive reviewed Mr Ws credit file in order to get a better 
understand of Mr Ws circumstances at those times. Having done so, Im satisfied that 
Vanquis assessment of Mr Ws circumstances is reasonable here.
I understand that there is some contention over a large increase in the level of Mr Ws 
indebtedness that occurred around the time of the second credit limit increase in May 2019. 
A significant increase in Mr Ws level of debt, such as the one that was reported, may well 
have given Vanquis cause to reconsider whether a further credit limit increase was 
appropriate for Mr W. 
But Vanquis have shown that they wouldnt have been aware of the increase in Mr Ws 
overall indebtedness at the time that they offered to increase the credit limit here, and that the increased level of indebtedness was first reported to Mr Ws credit file on 18 May 2019  
which was ten days after the offer to increase the credit limit to £2,500 was made to Mr W. 
It follows that at the time that Vanquis conducted the assessment into whether this second 
credit limit increase was affordable for Mr W, the information that they had, including the 
status of Mr Ws credit file at that time, supported the view that Mr W could afford the higher 
level of credit. Because the additional level of indebtedness had not become visible on Mr 
Ws credit file at that time. Considering this, Im satisfied that Vanquis offer to increase the 
credit limit to £2,500 was appropriate at that time, based on the information that Vanquis had 
available to them.
Mr W has supplied this service with details of the additional borrowing, including payday 
loans, that he took at various times during the period that he has held the Vanquis credit 
card, and I have taken this information into account. But ultimately, I have to decide whether 
it was reasonable for Vanquis to offer Mr W credit on the basis of the information that they 
had available to them, and while the additional borrowing that Mr W refers to is present on 
his credit file, it appears from his credit file that this borrowing was repaid without incident. 
While I accept that there are certain products, such as pay day loans, that can be indicative 
of an individual falling into financial difficulties, its notable from Mr Ws credit file that these 
borrowings were paid back on time. So, taken in consideration with the other information on 
Mr Ws credit file, which included the total level of Mr Ws debt visible to Vanquis decreasing 
over time, and also Mr W managing the Vanquis credit card without significant issue, I can 
understand why Vanquis felt that it was appropriate for them to authorise the credit limit 
increases that it did.
As explained previously, I have to base my assessment of this complaint on whether 
Vanquis acted fairly and reasonably in light of the information that Vanquis had available to 
them, at the times that they assessed Mr Ws financial circumstance. And, as I hope I have 
been able to explain, in all three instances here, I am satisfied that they did.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman