DRN-4066698
The complaint
Ms A complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited  trading as BMW Financial 
Services (BMWFS) has unfairly charged her for excess mileage and for damage after she 
took the decision to voluntary terminate a hire purchase agreement (in respect of a car) in 
her name.
What happened
In April 2018 Ms A acquired a new car using a hire purchase agreement from BMWFS. The 
cash price of the car was £66,033.18.
The total repayable under the agreement was £66,033.18. Ms A was required to make an 
advance payment of £225.40 followed by 47 monthly payments of £825.39 and there was a 
final optional payment of £27,014.45 if she wished to buy the car at the end of the 
agreement.
The agreement set out that Ms A had the right to terminate the agreement at any time
before the final payment was due. In doing so, BMWFS would be entitled to the return of the
car and at least half of the total repayable under the agreement. The agreement set out this
was £33,016.59.
In April 2022 Ms A chose to exercise her right to terminate the agreement early. In 
May 2021, after Ms A had handed the car back, BMWFS charged her £7,751.48 for excess 
mileage and £265.86 for damage  a total of £8,017.34.
The agreement set out that Ms A could terminate the agreement early by returning the car
and by paying:
any arrears and any other sums which have become payable under the agreement
before the termination (including any excess mileage charge)
the amount (if any) by which one-half of the total amount payable exceeds the 
amount paid (including the advance payment)
the sum required to compensate for damage to the car that is deemed beyond fair 
wear and tear
The agreement also set out that Ms A had an annual mileage allowance of 8,000 and a
total mileage allowance of 32,000. It said that if she exceeded this allowance BMWFS could 
charge her 18.02 pence for every mile that she exceeded the allowance by. It said that in the 
event she terminated the agreement early, the mileage allowance would be pro-rated for the 
time the car was on hire.
Ms A didnt think the £7,751.48 excess mileage charge and £265.86 damage charge was 
enforceable so referred the matter to our service for investigation. 
Ms As complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it
shouldnt be upheld.
He was satisfied that BMWFS had calculated the excess mileage charge correctly in line
with the terms of the hire purchase agreement and the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). 
He also found that the terms of the agreement were clear around the possibility of an
excess mileage charge being payable on voluntary termination.
In summary, he said:
S99 of the CCA sets out the right for a consumer to terminate a hire purchase
agreement early and S100 sets out what liabilities a consumer has on termination.
In brief, on termination a consumer is liable to pay at least half of the total price of
the agreement. Total price is defined by S189 of the CCA as the total sum payable
under the hire purchase agreement. It doesnt include charges for items that are
payable as compensation for breach of an agreement. This means that any charges
for breaches of the agreement are in addition to any liability for termination.
S99 sets out that any liabilities that the consumer accrued prior to termination arent
to be affected by the termination.
The hire purchase agreement set out that the excess mileage charges will accrue
immediately prior to termination. The term in Ms As agreement was clear that the
charge accrued before termination and was therefore not affected by the termination.
The terms of the agreement dont set out that exceeding the mileage allowance is a
breach of the agreement. The excess mileage charges must therefore be included in
the total price of the agreement.
The mileage charge therefore accrued prior to termination and counted towards the
total price of the agreement. Ms As accrued liability under S100 therefore included
paying an additional amount of £7,751.48.
The credit agreement set out clearly the terms surrounding when excess mileage
would be charged, when it would accrue, and how much it would cost.
The agreement made it clear that this charge would be payable on voluntary
termination of the agreement if any pro-rated mileage allowance had been exceeded.
When considering all the terms of the agreement as a whole, he was satisfied it was
made clear and not misleading about when an excess mileage charge could be
applied and for how much. He was therefore satisfied it was fair and reasonable for
BMWFS to charge the additional amount.
When the car was collected, by an agent of BMWFS, it was inspected with Ms A present. 
The report produced following this inspection noted the following damage and charges:
scratched LHF wheel £68.00
scratched LHR wheel £68.00
dented LHR door £10.00
dented LHR quarter panel £119.86
The investigator considered the charges invoiced to Ms A (totalling £265.86) and came to 
the view that BMWFS was entitled to charge them.
Ms A didnt agree with the investigators view, or his subsequent clarification and expansion 
on it, so her complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Secondly, I would add that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
In paying her monthly rentals to BMWFS, the hire purchase agreement allowed Ms A use of 
the car for the duration of the agreement. She also had the option to purchase the car 
outright at the end of the agreement in exchange for the final payment of £27,014.45. While 
Ms A was entitled to use the car, that use was subject to certain conditions, such as 
maintaining and taking care of the car and only driving a maximum mileage each year and 
overall, throughout the lifetime of the agreement. The agreement set out what would happen 
should Ms A not meet those requirements.
Ms A exercised her right to voluntarily terminate the agreement. In some instances, 
voluntary termination allows the hirer to simply hand back the car without having to pay 
anything more. But this is dependent on, amongst other things, how much has been paid to 
the agreement, whether there are arrears to be paid, the condition of the car and whether 
any excess mileage or other charges are due.
The CCA sets out the rights consumers have to voluntary terminate their hire purchase
agreements and the liability that is due on termination. The termination your rights section of
Ms As hire purchase agreement also refers to the liability that is due on termination and in
her case, that was £33,016.59. Various sections of the agreement Ms A had with BMWFS
also referred to the liability on early termination, including where excess mileage, damage
charges or other charges may increase the final liability.
Ms A has made reference to the case of Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited v 
Estrella Cahalane in support of her view that lenders arent legally entitled to charge for 
exceeding a mileage allowance.
Ive read a transcript in respect of the Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited v 
Estrella Cahalane case, but Im not persuaded it helps Ms A.
This is because whether or not its fair for a lender to apply the charge will be unique to
every case, as it will depend on the terms of the agreement that has been entered into. In
other words, what Ive to decide is has the agreement Ms A entered into, rather than what
another party might have entered into with another business, been constructed in a way as
to allow the charging for excess mileage without contravening what is set out in the CCA
regarding voluntary termination? In Ms As specific case, I think it has. Ill explain why.
As explained by the investigator, S99 sets out that any liabilities which accrue prior to
termination arent affected by the termination. What this means is that Ms A is liable to pay
any charges which have built up prior to the termination of the agreement, and that these
charges are in addition to the other liability for early termination.
The first page of Ms As hire purchase agreement has a section headed: Excess Mileage
Charges. This section sets out the mileage allowance and what charges will apply if that
mileage is exceeded. It says that if the agreement is terminated early the mileage allowance
will be reduced to reflect the shorter period of hire and that your obligation to pay any
excess mileage charge will accrue immediately prior to termination. Im satisfied Ms As
agreement is worded clearly in setting out when excess mileage charges accrue.The agreement also has a section headed Termination: your rights. This section contains
specific wording which BMWFS were required to include in the agreement, and in summary
sets out that so long as Ms A has paid at least half the total amount payable under the
agreement, she will not have to pay any more. Ive thought about whether this conflicts with
the rest of the terms of the agreement, specifically those that explain charges for exceeding
the mileage might apply.
Having read all of the terms of the agreement as a whole, I dont think the agreement is
either unclear or misleading concerning the charges for excess mileage. I think it explains
that the excess mileage charge can be applied in addition to other charges for voluntary
termination. I dont therefore consider that the way this specific agreement has been
constructed has prejudiced Ms A.
Im also satisfied that any excess mileage charge that would be applicable under this
agreement will have accrued prior to termination. It follows that Ms A is liable to pay the
excess mileage charge and that this is consistent with what is allowed to be charged under
S99 of the CCA.
So overall, Im not persuaded BMWFS has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms A in
seeking from her  £7,751.48 in respect of excess mileage.
The investigator came to the view that BMWFS could fairly and reasonably charge Ms A for 
damage to two wheels, one door and one quarter panel.
Having had regard to the inspection report produced by BMWFS agent and the various 
photographs that have been provided Im satisfied, like the investigator, that BMWFS can 
reasonably charge Ms A for the above damage and that in all the circumstances £265.86 
represents a fair and reasonable sum for this damage. 
I appreciate that Ms A will be disappointed by my findings. But in summary Im satisfied that 
BMWFS can (for the reasons given above) fairly and reasonably hold her liable for 
£7,751.48 in respect of excess mileage and £265.86 in respect of damage.
For the sake of completeness, I would like to address a number of other issues Ms A has 
raised with BMWFS and our service.
I note that Ms A is unhappy with information BMWFS has reported to one or more third party 
reference agencies in respect of her hire purchase agreement. But given what I say above 
and given what I understand it is BMWFS is currently reporting, I cant reasonably conclude 
BMWFS need do anything in this respect.
I note that Ms A says she is in financial difficulties. I dont dispute this so would remind 
BMWFS of its obligations, when seeking recovery of the sums Ive found it can seek the 
recovery of, fairly and with due consideration and forbearance.
I note that Ms A says that the service BMWFS provided her, both before and after her 
decision to voluntary terminate her hire purchase agreement, was poor with BMWFS 
(amongst other things) confirming the sum of £6,814.06 would be due immediately on the 
agreement being voluntary terminated, treating her enquiries prematurely as a complaint, 
pursuing her for an incorrect debt amount and causing her to incur time and costs. Now Ive considered what Ms A has said in this respect very carefully. But Im not persuaded 
the service BMWFS provided Ms A warrants, in itself, the making of any award by me. But 
even if I wasnt of this view I would point out that its my understanding that BMWFS is 
seeking an excess mileage charge from Ms A that is less than its entitled to seek the 
recovery of because it has calculated the sum its seeking on a total allowable mileage of 
36,000 rather than 32,000. 
Finally, and for the avoidance of any doubt, I would add that Im not persuaded that 
confirming to Ms A the sum of £6,814.06 would be due immediately on the agreement being 
voluntary terminated constitutes a repudiatory breach. But even if I wasnt of this view Im not 
persuaded that by seeking payment of the sum £6,814.06 BMWFS, on the grounds of what 
is both fair and reasonable, should be prevented from seeking recovery of the sums of 
£7,751.48 and £265.86. I also find BMWFS submission that it would have allowed voluntary 
termination without the sum of £6,814.06 being paid by Ms A to be both plausible and 
persuasive. I also think its worth pointing out had this sum not been paid by Ms A BMWFS 
would be seeking recovery of it from her now in addition to the sums of £7,751.48 and 
£265.86.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman