DRN-4236526
The complaint
Mr R complains about the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
applied when he returned a vehicle at the end of his hire agreement.
What happened
Mr R entered into a hire agreement in June 2019 for a term of three years. He says hes 
unhappy with the end of contract charges that were applied when he returned the vehicle. 
Mr R told us:
After hed returned the vehicle, MBFS sent him an invoice for damages that 
amounted to £3,605.49. He disputed the charges with MBFS and asked it to send 
him evidence of the damages that it had recorded;
MBFS sent him photographs that had been taken by the third-party collection agent, 
but he says that most of the damage in the photographs wasnt present when the 
vehicle was collected;
the vehicle was driven across the country, and it took MBFS nearly a month to 
invoice him for the damage, and he says the damage occurred in this timeframe  
after the vehicle had been collected from him;
he accepts some of the itemised damage on the invoice was caused by him, but 
most of it was not, and some of the claims of poor paint repairs are for areas on the 
vehicle that he had not previously had repaired;
MBFS tried to charge him for cleaning a panel because of bird droppings but it 
conceded this was excessive and it removed this charge after he first complained;
MBFS levied charges for damage to the boot, but the nature of the vehicle and his 
usage of the it means that this damage was inevitable. Moreover, Mr R says MBFS 
didnt provide any protection for the boot when he first hired the vehicle, so the 
damage was unavoidable;
Mr R says MBFS should revise its invoice to cover only the damage that was actually 
caused by him and the repair work that he had done that it deems to be of poor quality.
MBFS rejected this complaint. It said the vehicle was collected and inspected by an 
independent third party. MBFS said that following Mr Rs complaint, it had reviewed the 
charges and agreed to remove the one related to bird dropping damage, and it reduced the 
invoice to £3,426.89.
MBFS said Mr R was told that A damage inspection will take place when your vehicle is 
returned to the Defleet site, and if there is damage on your vehicle that falls outside our 
Vehicle Returns Standards, well send you an invoice of the damage charges.
MBFS said its Vehicle Returns Standards (VRS) document detailed the expected return 
condition of Mr Rs vehicle. It said a copy of this was provided to Mr R when he first took out 
his finance agreement, and it was available online. So, it was satisfied that Mr R had had 
ample opportunity to familiarise himself with its fair wear and tear expectations and this also 
provided him with the opportunity to have any repairs carried out before the vehicle was 
returned and inspected.
MBFS said the other 22 charges had been raised correctly and these charges compensate it 
for any loss it might experience due to the cost of any work or repair or replacement which it 
reasonably considers necessary to restore the vehicle to the appropriate condition.
It noted that some of the charges related to poor repair work that Mr R had said had been 
undertaken via his insurance. But it said this repair work hadnt been completed to the 
required standard  further work needed to be undertaken to return the vehicle to the original 
specification and standard. It said Mr R could contact his insurance provider if he had been 
charged for paintwork that was now deemed to be substandard.
 
Mr R disagreed and brought his complaint to this Service. He provided an annotated copy of 
the invoice, marked up with his comments on each of the individual charges.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he thought it should be partially upheld, 
and he asked MBFS to remove a number of charges from the invoice. He explained hed 
looked at the photographic evidence provided by MBFS and said he thought that, for a 
number of reasons, charges totalling more than £550 should be removed. He did go on to 
say that hed found no evidence of any damage occurring after the car had been collected.
Mr R disagreed and he said he still felt aggrieved by the level of the remaining charges.
MBFS also disagreed with our investigators opinion. And it provided further clarity and 
additional submissions on the charges that had been recommended to be removed; a 
recommendation with which it disagreed.
My initial conclusions are set out in my provisional decision from June 2023. In it I said I 
thought MBFS should remove four charges from the invoice it had sent Mr R and I explained 
my reasons for this as follows:
The terms and conditions of the hire agreement, signed by Mr R, set out in some detail the 
acceptable return condition of the vehicle. They clearly set out what the acceptable 
conditions are, with examples, and what conditions are unacceptable. Ive read this carefully, 
and Im satisfied that Mr R was responsible for returning the vehicle in good condition, but 
the question is whether all the charges applied by MBFS are fair and reasonable.
MBFSs inspection identifies 23 areas of damage that it deems to be unacceptable - outside 
fair wear and tear. MBFS has already agreed to remove the charge in respect of bird 
droppings and the subsequent need to repaint the bonnet. So, I dont need to consider this 
charge any further.
Additionally, Mr Rs annotated invoice confirmed his acceptance that hed caused the 
damage in a further 8 areas itemised on the invoice. Again, as this damage isnt in dispute, 
theres no need for me to consider these items further.
With this in mind, Ive focussed my findings on the remaining 14 itemised areas of damage 
where there remains disagreement between the parties. These are as follows:
1. MOT  insufficient cover left £54.95
2. Nearside/Fuel flap  poor previous  small panel paint £44.65
3. Offside/Front door  poor previous £208.02
4. Nearside/rear/Quarter panel  poor previous £208.02
5. Offside/Rear door  poor previous £208.02
6. Offside/Rear quarter panel  poor previous £237.44
7. Front bumper  scratched  full panel paint £178.608. Offside/Front wing  damaged £208.02
9. Rear/Boot  damaged £832.08
10. Rear/Bumper  damaged £281.59
11. Rear/Tailgate  damaged £208.02
12. Rear/Tailgate  scratched £178.60
13. Nearside/Rear/Quarter Panel  Stone Chip Decal missing £35.47
14. Offside/Rear quarter panel  missing £35.47
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVLRA) and these are accepted as an industry standard in determining 
whether any damage goes beyond fair wear and tear. So, Ive also taken these into account 
alongside MBFS Vehicle Return Standards when deciding what is fair and reasonable for 
MBFS to charge Mr R.
The Vehicle Return Standards, signed by Mr R in June 2019 says, all cab and body 
exterior panels and internal trims to be free of damage.
The BVRLA guidance sets out the standard regarding fair wear and tear. The relevant 
guidance says:
Obvious evidence of poor repair such as flaking paint, preparation marks, paint 
contamination, rippled finish and ill-matched paint is not acceptable.
Repaired chips, scratches and dents outside the fair wear and tear tolerance are 
acceptable provided the work is completed to a professional standard by repairers 
who can provide full warranty on their work.
Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are 
acceptable provided they can be polished out. A maximum of four scratches on one 
panel is acceptable.
Ive looked very carefully at the photographic evidence that MBFS has provided, and Im 
satisfied that some of the areas of damage identified do exist and that the damage is indeed 
outside fair wear and tear. So, I think these charges should apply. But theres also alleged 
damage that Ive not seen persuasive evidence of and, subject to significantly clearer 
evidence, I dont think these charges should apply.
(1) MOT  Insufficient cover left - £54.95
Our investigator said this charge shouldnt apply. He said the vehicle was returned on 
22 June 2022, and the vehicles MOT wasnt due until 28 June 2022. He asked MBFS to 
remove this charge.
But the VRS is clear. It says that the vehicle must be capable of passing a MOT test and 
have a valid test certificate, which has at least 6 months unexpired cover. It goes on to say 
that vehicles with less than 5 months MOT cover remaining will be MOT tested and any 
costs incurred to pass the MOT test will be payable by you.
Mr R returned the vehicle with less than one weeks MOT cover unexpired. Accordingly, Im 
satisfied that this charge has been applied fairly.
(2) Poor previous repair to nearside/fuel flap - £44.65 and 
(3) Poor previous repair to offside/front door  £208.02Our investigator asked MBFS to remove the charges for these two items. MBFS said that the 
paint finish following repair work was substandard. It said signs of poor previous repairs due 
to warping seen from the reflection and paint quality which is not consistent with the original 
finish of the vehicle
Ive looked very carefully at the five photographs submitted by MBFS and I dont find them 
persuasive  I simply cannot see anything that evidences a poor paint finish. So, unless 
clearer and stronger evidence is provided, Im going to ask MBFS to remove both these 
charges.
(4) Poor previous repair to Offside/Rear door - £208.02
(5) Poor previous repair to Offside/Rear quarter panel - £237.44
(6) Poor previous repair to Nearside/rear/Quarter panel - £208.02
Ive looked carefully at the 19 photographs submitted by MBFS in support of its claim that 
the paint finish following repair work was substandard. Im satisfied that theres evidence of 
warping and a rippled finish in the paintwork, and accordingly I think these charges have 
been applied fairly.
(7) Scratched Front bumper - £178.60
(8) Damaged Offside/Front wing - £208.02
(9) Damaged Rear/Boot - £832.08
(10) Damaged Rear/Bumper - £281.59
(11) Damaged Rear/Tailgate - £208.02
(12) Damaged Rear/Tailgate - £178.60
MBFS has provided a large number of photographs to evidence the damage to these six 
areas. Im satisfied in each of these six areas, that the damage and scratches are clearly 
visible and exceed both the VRS standards for fair wear and tear and the BVRLA guidance 
too. 
Ive noted Mr Rs comments about his usage of the vehicle and the failure of MBFS to 
provide protection for the boot, but I dont think this makes a difference. Theres no indication 
that the VRS standards were to be varied according to a customers planned or actual 
vehicle usage, and I cant see that MBFS intended to provide boot protection, but then failed 
to do so. So, taking everything into account, I think its fair for MBFS to charge Mr R for 
damage in these areas.
(13) Nearside/Rear/Quarter Panel  Stone Chip Decal missing - £35.47
(14) Offside/Rear quarter panel  missing - £35.47
MBFS clarified these two charges do not relate to damage but are instead charges for 
something that is missing. It says, We believe a protective cover on both sides should be 
present. And its provided two photographs that it says provides evidence of something that 
isnt there. But what it hasnt provided is any evidence of what the missing things actually 
look like, or indeed that they were likely present at any time prior to the vehicles collection 
and inspection. So, because of this Im not persuaded that its fair for MBFS to apply these 
charges.
Finally, Ive considered Mr Rs inference that some of the damage took place after the 
vehicle was collected from him, but I just dont think this is likely. I say this because MBFS 
appointed an independent third party, one that is recognised in the industry, to conduct an assessment. And although Mr R says that when the vehicle was collected, he was told there 
was no damage to report, I think its more likely than not that the nature of the identified 
damage wouldnt have been apparent until the vehicle was thoroughly examined later.
I said I was satisfied that the majority of the charges MBFS asked Mr R to pay were applied 
fairly and in line with both its own VRS standards and the relevant industry guidance, but I 
was going to ask it to cancel the following charges and adjust its invoice accordingly:
1. Nearside/Fuel flap  poor previous  small panel paint £44.65
2. Offside/Front door  poor previous £208.02
3. Nearside/Rear/Quarter Panel  Stone Chip Decal missing £35.47
4. Offside/Rear quarter panel  missing £35.47
I asked each party to let me have any further information that theyd like me to consider.
Mr R provided no further comments.
MBFS accepted that charges 3. and 4. (above) should be removed; it acknowledged that it 
wasnt in a position to provide an example of what should have been. But it asked me to 
look again at charges 1. and 2. and it asked me to compare the photographs to the ones for 
the offside/front/door; the rippling effect from a poor respray would be more apparent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision.
Ive looked again at the photographs submitted by MBFS  it didnt provide any further 
evidence. Although its instructions were confusing  it asked that I compare the offside front 
door with the offside front door  Ive looked at the paintwork in the other photographs as the 
basis of my comparison.
Having done so, Im still unable to see persuasive evidence of a poor paint finish or rippling 
in the paintwork. And, as a result, in addition to the two charges it has now agreed to 
remove, I require it to remove the charges for 
1. Nearside/Fuel flap  poor previous  small panel paint £44.65
2. Offside/Front door  poor previous £208.02
Putting things right
Given all of the above, Im satisfied that the majority of the charges MBFS asked Mr R to pay 
were applied fairly and in line with both its own VRS standards and the relevant industry 
guidance, but Im going to ask it to cancel the following charges and adjust its invoice 
accordingly:
1. Nearside/Fuel flap  poor previous  small panel paint £44.65
2. Offside/Front door  poor previous £208.02
3. Nearside/Rear/Quarter Panel  Stone Chip Decal missing £35.47
4. Offside/Rear quarter panel  missing £35.47My final decision
My decision is that I require Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited to remove the 
four charges Ive identified from Mr Rs end of contract charges invoice.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman