DRN-3397535
The complaint
Mr O complains his Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) debit card doesnt work.
What happened
Mr O contacted Barclays because his card wasnt working in cash machines. Mr O says this 
has been going on for several years and across numerous cards.
Mr O visited a Barclays branch and the staff couldnt get the card to work in the cash 
machine either. Mr O was able to make a cash withdrawal at the counter.
Mr O complained to Barclays and it felt it had resolved the complaint. Mr O wasnt happy 
with this response, and Barclays sent two final responses and then ordered a new card.
Mr O has since said the new card works.
But Mr O wasnt happy with Barclays response, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
An investigator looked into things and thought Mr Os complaint should be upheld.
The investigator thought Barclays could have handled Mr Os complaint a little better and 
ordered a new card sooner rather than closing the complaint. The investigator thought an 
apology letter from Barclays would be a fair outcome.
Mr O accepted this but Barclays sent an apology letter that wasnt accurate. Mr O then 
asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to assure Mr O Ive listened to the call he had with our investigator.
Mr O says his card hasnt worked in cash machines because it cant be read. Mr O took his 
card to a branch and the staff there agreed the card wasnt working as it should.
But, I can see Mr O was able to use his old card in shops, both contactless and using the 
terminal and I can see some cash machine withdrawals have been successful.
I understand Mr Os concerns, hes worried hell want to buy something and may have the 
embarrassment of his card not working.
But it seems Mr Os card was working in shops, and he was able to access the money in his 
account. When Mr O visited the branch to test his card, he withdrew cash over the counter.
Mr O has said his new card started working a few months after it was sent. Ive seen 
statements to show Mr Os been able to use his new card for cash machine withdrawals.
Since Mr O was able to access his account, albeit not in the way he might find most 
convenient, I dont think Barclays has caused a loss to Mr O.
But, Barclays could have handled things better. Mr O feels Barclays didnt believe him when 
he told it his card wasnt working. I have no reason to doubt Mr O when he says his card 
didnt work, and it seems branch staff agreed too.
Ordering a new card would seem the simple solution to this, but it took some time for a new 
card to be ordered and following the closure of Mr Os complaint.
Putting things right
Since I dont think Mr Os been caused a loss, an apology letter seems a fair resolution to 
this complaint. And Mr O accepted this as a resolution to his complaint before Barclays 
made an error with the letter.
Although I can see the errors made in the original apology letter, I feel the sentiment is the 
same. And I cant see the errors in the original apology letter caused Mr O any detriment.
And, in any event, Barclays sent a second apology letter to Mr O.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Os complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC has already sent Mr O 
an apology letter, it doesnt need to do more to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman