DRN-2913293
The complaint
Miss M complains Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) unfairly turned down her 
claim and added an exclusion to her policy.
What happened
Miss M took out an income protection policy with LV in 2018. The policy was designed to pay 
a benefit in the event Miss M was unable to work due to illness or injury. 
In December 2019 Miss M became absent from work due to mental ill health. And made a 
claim against her policy. 
LV said it had reviewed Miss Ms medical records and identified low mood recorded by her 
GP in June 2016. It said it thought Miss M should have disclosed information about this 
when taking out her policy. And had Miss M disclosed this, together with the other 
information she had provided about her mental health, it would have added the following 
exclusion to her policy. 
We will not pay a claim if it is due to, or arises from: depression, anxiety, other mental 
disorder or chronic fatigue syndrome, fibromyalgia, myalgic encephalomyelitis (ME) and 
post-viral fatigue.
LV added this exclusion to the policy retrospectively and declined the claim.
Miss M complained. LV said it had reviewed the evidence again, but thought it had been 
correct to add a retrospective exclusion and decline the claim. It said Miss M had made a 
misrepresentation in answering the medical questions when taking out her policy. And it 
gave her the options to continue with her income protection policy with the exclusion, or to 
cancel it and receive a refund of the premiums paid. 
Unhappy with LVs response, Miss M brought her complaint to this service. She said she 
would like LV to remove the exclusion it had added to her policy, and to pay her claim in full. 
An investigator here looked into what had happened and said they didnt think LV had acted 
unfairly. 
LV made no comments on the investigators view. However, Miss M disagreed and asked for 
a decision from an ombudsman. And so the case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Ive noted Miss M has said she would expect her GP to be consulted for a 
comprehensive report on her medical history, as part of the review of her complaint, that is 
not the function this service provides. Its my role to consider whether or not LV has acted 
reasonably in its assessment of the evidence provided, and to decide whether or not this 
produced a fair outcome.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
LV has said Miss M failed to take reasonable care in answering its medical questions when 
she took out her policy. It asked Miss M: In the last 5 years, regardless of whether youve 
seen a doctor, required treatment or had time off work, have you had: anxiety, depression, 
stress or mental illness? Including: eating disorders, addictions, work related stress. 
Miss M answered yes and disclosed information about stress she had experienced in 2013. 
And LV asked further questions about this, which Miss M answered. 
Miss Ms medical records show a GP consultation in June 2016 which states mood low re 
shoulder pain. And shows Miss M was prescribed an anti-depressant. Miss M has since 
provided a statement from her GP which says the anti-depressant medication was not 
issued to her. And shes said the GP she saw at this appointment in June 2016 wasnt her 
usual doctor. Ive considered this, but I dont think it makes a difference. Although I accept 
Miss M did not take the medication, it was still prescribed during the consultation, and in 
relation to low mood. And the more recent note provided by a different GP, doesnt 
contradict this. 
Based on this medical evidence, I think it was reasonable for LV to say Miss M didnt 
answer its question correctly in relation to her mental health. I think the question LV asked 
was clear in that it wanted to know about any mental illness in the prior five years. And as 
Miss M had declared a previous instance of stress from 2013, I think its reasonable to 
expect she should also have declared the low mood in 2016, which was more recent to her 
taking out the policy. 
Im persuaded Miss M failed to take reasonable care to answer LVs question correctly and 
that she made a careless misrepresentation. For LV to take any action, there needs to have 
been a qualifying misrepresentation. So I need to identify whether or not the 
misrepresentation made by Miss M made a difference to LV.
LV provided evidence from its underwriters confirming, had the additional medical 
information about Miss Ms mental health been declared, it would have still offered the 
policy. But, it would have done so on different terms. It would have applied an exclusion to 
any claims relating to depression, anxiety, other mental disorder or chronic fatigue 
syndrome, fibromyalgia, myalgic encephalomyelitis (ME) and post-viral fatigue. And 
because of this, Im satisfied the misrepresentation was a qualifying one. LV treated the misrepresentation as careless rather than deliberate. And in these 
circumstances, the remedy available under CIDRA is for it to add the relevant exclusion to 
Miss Ms policy, and assess the claim from that point. And as thats whats happened in this 
case, Im persuaded LV has acted fairly. 
LV also offered Miss M the option to cancel her income protection policy and receive a 
refund of the premiums she paid. This is more than LV is required to do under CIDRA, so 
this satisfies me further that LV has shown fair treatment to Miss M. I note Miss M chose to 
continue with her policy, and has since submitted a claim relating to a different condition. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman