DRN-4322172
The complaint
Mr G complains about the amount of tax hes paid on dividends received from shares he 
holds in his account with HSBC UK Bank Plc.
What happened
In 2019 Mr G purchased shares in Diversified Energy Company PLC (DEC) via his account 
with HSBC. DEC is a company based in the US which is listed on the London Stock 
Exchange. Mr G later bought shares in DEC via another platform, and in October 2021 
realised that when he received dividends, HSBC deducted a higher rate of tax from the 
dividend payment (30%), than the other platform did (15%). After raising this with HSBC, in 
December 2021 it was explained that in order to reduce the tax paid on the dividends, Mr G 
would need to complete a W-8Ben form and Forms A and B.  
Mr G provided various versions of these forms between February and June 2022 and by 30 
June 2022 HSBC were able to set his account to show his W-8Ben was registered. Mr G 
received three dividends from DEC following that  in July, September December. For the 
July dividend, tax initially wasnt deducted at all, but in September HSBC wrote to Mr G to 
explain they should have deducted 30% and rectified it. The September dividend had 30% 
deducted and in December 2022 HSBC rectified it, as Mr G should only have paid 15% tax 
on it. The December dividend was paid correctly with 15% deducted, and the subsequent 
dividends have also been paid correctly. 
Mr G raised several complaints over 2021 and 2022 about the problems he experienced and 
about the tax deductions. He also felt HSBC ought to have asked him to complete the W-
8Ben when he initially bought the shares. HSBC upheld various parts of his complaint and 
paid compensation as follows:
18 November 2021 - £50 for a short delay in paying a dividend on 8 October 2021.
10 December 2021  £50 for not addressing all Mr Gs points in the November reply.
16 June 2022 - £50 for sending letters to Mr Gs London address, despite knowing he 
wouldnt be there to receive them.
24 August 2022 - £300 for not explaining how the withholding tax on Mr Gs DEC 
holding worked sooner.
However, HSBC also told Mr G in August and November that the DEC holding would always 
be taxed at 30% despite the W-8Ben form. Mr G remained unhappy and brought his 
complaint to our service, where it was looked into by an investigator. The investigator found 
that the tax on the dividends hed received from September 2022 onwards ought to have 
been 15% not 30%, but that the earlier one were correctly paid with 30% deducted. She also 
found that for the problems Mr G had encountered HSBC ought to pay a further £200 
compensation. HSBC agree to this, but Mr G remained unhappy. In summary he said:
HSBC ought to have told him about the benefit of the W-8Ben form earlier, as they 
now prevent the purchase of US listed shares without a W-8Ben on file.
He was told to upgrade his trading account to benefit from the W-8Ben, which was 
costing a monthly fee plus trading fees.
He had sent the forms in February 2022 and HSBC ought to have accepted them.
He shouldnt have needed to resubmit the forms in June 2022.
He was seeking a further amount of £540 to make up for the additional tax hes paid 
on the dividends received since owning the shares.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind and so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator for mostly the same 
reasons. Ill focus on what I consider to be the main points, rather than commenting on every 
element of the complaint in detail. I can see Mr G feels strongly about the complaint  and I 
hope he wont take it as a discourtesy that I dont comment on everything in as much detail 
as he has, but I can assure him Ive read all his comments.
Due to the nature of the platform account, I consider it to be Mr Gs responsibility to ensure 
he understands the products he buys on the platform. This includes understanding the tax 
implications of any shares he buys. This obligation is set out in the terms and conditions but 
is also something that I consider to be a reasonable obligation, because Mr G wasnt 
seeking advice from HSBC. As they were providing whats known as an execution only 
service, the obligations on HSBC are limited. Primarily, they must ensure the information 
they provide about the account is clear, fair and not misleading.
Although DEC is a US company, their shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange. So, 
the various forms werent an absolute requirement prior to purchasing the shares  as they 
would have been if the shares had been listed on a US exchange. As the forms werent a 
pre-requisite of purchase, Im satisfied HSBC didnt need to proactively make Mr G aware of 
the tax situation when he bought the shares  including asking him to fill in a W-8Ben form at 
that time. It was Mr Gs responsibility to understand that the company he was investing in 
was based in the US, and to look into what that might mean for the investment. So, until 
2022, I think the tax applied to the dividends Mr G has received from DEC was correct.   
Turning to the events of 2022 - there were clearly some initial problems with the forms Mr G 
submitted to HSBC in February 2022. Im persuaded that HSBCs reasons for rejecting those 
forms were fair and reasonable  the quality of the pictures wasnt clear enough. So, Im 
satisfied that HSBC deducted the correct amount of tax for the April 2022 dividend, as they 
didnt have sufficiently complete forms on file at that time. 
There were then several problems with HSBCs communication, including letters being sent 
to the wrong address by HSBC, and asking Mr G to fill in the wrong form. Mr G then had 
trouble receiving calls and emails from HSBC. I do think its likely that, but for the problems 
caused by HSBC during this time, its possible Mr G would have only paid 15% tax on the 
dividend he received in July 2022. I understand the difference in tax amounts to less than 
£50. I know theres been several points put forward by both HSBC and Mr G about whether 
he received the key communication from HSBC in June 2022. I dont consider that I need to 
make a finding on this point, and Ill explain why.
Ive thought about the £50 loss in light of the amount of compensation offered by HSBC. 
Prior to our involvement, theyd paid Mr G a total of £450 between December 2021 and 
August 2022, and following the investigators opinion, agreed to pay a further £200. I 
consider this to be a sufficient amount to compensate for the distress and inconvenience caused and the loss Mr G has experienced by being charged 30% on the dividend he 
received in July 2022. As a result, Im satisfied I dont need to make a firm finding on whose 
fault it was that the w-8Ben wasnt registered prior to Mr G receiving the July dividend and I 
wont be awarding further compensation here. 
For clarity, I do think there have been several failings in the service provided by HSBC, 
which were not compensated for prior to our services involvement. Most prominently that 
HSBC told Mr G several times that the DEC shares would attract a 30% reduction regardless 
of the W-8Ben. HSBC has explained to our service that this meant they receive the 
dividends with 30% deducted and having a W-8Ben on file means that HSBC would then 
manually adjust this to 15% before passing the dividend on to the investor. However, the 
second half of that explanation wasnt given to Mr G and so theyve caused him unnecessary 
confusion. 
In addition, the errors with the July and September dividends were caused by errors in the 
manual adjustments carried out by HSBC. That, combined with the time it took for HSBC to 
rectify the errors with the dividends, are the main reasons I agree with the amount of 
compensation offered. 
I note Mr G has also raised concerns about the fees hes paid for the upgraded platform 
account, which HSBC incorrectly told him was required in order to benefit from the W-8Ben. 
Looking at the different in fees between that and the account he held previously, the account 
fees are not more expensive than the account he held prior to the upgrade. So, I dont think 
hes been caused any financial loss by being told to upgrade. 
In summary, Im satisfied HSBC has caused problems here, and I agree with the amount 
recommended by the investigator of £200 to put this right. However, I dont think it would be 
fair and reasonable to award compensation for financial loss for any of the dividends Mr G 
received prior to July 2022, for the reasons set out above.
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay a further £200 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that HSBC UK Bank 
Plc should pay £200. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023. 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman