DRN-3660893
The complaint
Mr M complained about the value Advantage put on his car after it was stolen, and he 
claimed under his motor insurance policy. 
His son dealt with his complaint on his behalf. 
What happened
Mr Ms car was unfortunately stolen and was later recovered but was damaged. Advantage 
decided the car was uneconomical to repair and offered him £9200, less policy excess, for 
its market value. Advantage didnt agree. He said that his car was in excellent condition, was 
a rare colour, and he couldnt buy a like for like replacement car with that amount. 
The investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Advantages valuation was fair and had been reached both in line with the terms of the 
policy, and the approach of this service. Mr M didnt agree and so Ive been asked to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator explained to Mr M our approach regarding complaints about car valuations. 
We dont decide what the market value of a car is; we merely consider whether the insurer 
has reached a fair and reasonable amount having regard to the valuations in the trade 
guides, as well as any other evidence the parties may provide. That evidence might include 
advertisements detailing the sale prices of similar cars, but we bear in mind that cars usually 
sell for less than the advertised price, so we think that an insurer isnt bound by any 
advertised prices.
It is standard practice for insurers to use trade valuation guides to work out the estimated 
market value of a car. And we dont think its unreasonable to do this. The guides provide 
valuations based on national research of the advertised and likely sales prices of similar 
cars, in a similar condition and with a similar mileage.
Ive looked at how Advantage valued Mr Ms car. As the investigator explained, under the 
policy Advantage must pay the cars market value less the policy excess. The policy defines 
market value as:
The cost of replacing your Car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage 
occurred with one of the same make, model, age and condition. This may not necessarily be 
the value you declared when the insurance was taken out. Your Insurer may use 
publications such as Glass's Guide to assess the Market Value and will make any necessary 
allowances for the mileage and condition of your Car and the circumstances in which you 
bought it.
Advantage s market value settlement offer was £9200 less excess. They showed us that 
they used two relevant trades guides, which Ill call A and B, and that they are using the 
correct details of the vehicle, mileage, and date of the accident. The valuation figure from 
Guide A was £8,560 and from Guide B it was £9,479. Advantage obtained an engineers 
report which supported that, though the engineer wasnt able to determine the cars previous 
condition because of the extent of the cars damage.
The average of these two guides was £9020, and thats what Advantage offered Mr M. To 
fully check, the investigator also obtained a valuation from a third guide, C, but it was the 
lowest of the three. So that didnt support Mr Ms feeling that his car should have been worth 
more. 
As Advantages approach to valuation was in line with our established guidance, I think that 
Advantages market value offer was fair and reasonable. 
Mr M sent us photos of the car, which he said showed that it was in showroom condition, 
and adverts for similar cars selling for more. He said that this meant his car should be worth 
more, and its colour was particularly rare and so would cost him much more to get a similar  
one. But ,as the investigator explained, the trade guides valuations did already take into 
account that his car was in good condition, and its colour didnt add any more value. 
I see that the experience of having his car stolen must have been upsetting for Mr M. He has 
lost, in unfortunate circumstances, a car that he really liked in a colour that was special to 
him. But I think Advantage have offered him a fair and reasonable valuation and so I dont 
ask them to do anything else.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
