DRN-4428527
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Dignity Funerals Limited wouldnt offer them a discounted 
funeral plan, after their original provider went into administration. 
What happened
To summarise, Mr and Mrs H held an either/or plan with a company Ill call S. This plan 
would have provided a funeral upon the death of the first spouse. 
 
Unfortunately, in March 2022, S went into administration. In September 2022, Ss 
administrators wrote to all Ss customers with details of a scheme whereby those customers 
might be able to purchase a new discounted plan from alternative providers, one of whom 
was Dignity. Mr and Mrs H registered an interest in hearing more from Dignity. 
In February 2023, S provided Dignity with information about Mr and Mrs H, including that 
they held an either/or plan. 
In June 2023, Dignity wrote to Mr and Mrs H saying it was unable to offer them a discounted 
plan that closely matched the one originally taken out with S. 
Mr and Mrs H asked Dignity to reconsider. But Dignity maintained its position, explaining it 
wasnt until information was received from S that it was able to identify Mr and Mrs Hs plan 
wasnt one it could match.
Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator 
looked into things for them, but didnt uphold their complaint. The investigator said Mr and 
Mrs H had subsequently been able to benefit from discounted plans with another provider, 
so he didnt think theyd lost out. 
Mr and Mrs H disagreed, saying theyd had to pay more with the other provider and that their 
experience with Dignity had caused them distress and inconvenience. 
As Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy, their complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be disappointing news 
for Mr and Mrs H and Im sorry about that. A summary of my reasons is given below, 
focusing on the key points and evidence I consider material to my decision. So, if Ive not 
referred to something in particular, its not because I havent thought about it. Rather, I dont 
consider it changes the outcome of the complaint. 
Firstly, Id like to acknowledge that Mr and Mrs H have been through an uncertain time since 
their original provider S went into administration. I dont doubt this has been a stressful 
period. 
Ultimately, I dont agree Mr and Mrs H have lost out financially, because a slightly cheaper 
Dignity plan was never truly available to them, as their original plan couldnt be closely 
matched to one of the five rescue options Dignity offered. This wasnt something Dignity 
knew when its original information was included with the letter to Mr and Mrs H from Ss 
administrators. Although in any event, that letter includes a note underneath the table of 
rescue options, stating that Dignity will aim to match its plans to the equivalent services 
where possible [my emphasis]. 
I acknowledge there was some delay between Dignity receiving information about Mr and 
Mrs Hs plan and contacting them to explain the situation. Its unfortunate this wasnt made 
clear to Mr and Mrs H sooner. But Im pleased the delay didnt prevent Mr and Mrs H 
obtaining discounted provision elsewhere. 
In all the circumstances, I dont think Dignity needs to do anything more in respect of this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman