DRN-2143536
The complaint
Ms G is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined her claim for storm 
damage.
What happened
Ms G had buildings and contents insurance with RSA. She made a claim under her buildings 
insurance for damage to her roof caused by a storm. Rainwater had entered her property 
through the roof and caused further damage inside.
The surveyor acting on RSAs behalf inspected the damage and concluded that it was due to 
wear and tear rather than the result of a one-off incident. RSA declined Ms Gs claim.
Ms G complained to RSA, but it repeated its position saying the damage wasnt covered 
under her policy.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt find any evidence of a storm around 
the time Ms G made her claim, and he agreed that the photos provided by RSAs surveyor 
showed damage more consistent with wear and tear.
Ms G didnt agree and asked for a further review.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I realise this will be disappointing for Ms G, Ive decided not to uphold her 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms G made a claim under her buildings insurance for storm damage. Shed noticed water 
leaking into her kitchen extension through the flat, felt roof. RSA didnt identify any evidence 
of a storm and, on inspection, it thought the damage to the roof was more consistent with 
wear and tear. It declined her claim. 
My role, here, is to decide whether it was fair for RSA to decline Ms Gs claim. To do that, I 
must consider whether there was a storm; whether the damage is typical of storm damage, 
and whether a storm was likely the main cause of the damage.
RSA said storm conditions werent present around the time Ms G made her claim. As she 
noticed the leak rather than identifying damage during or immediately after a storm, Ive 
looked at historical reports of wind speed and rainfall for the month immediately before Ms 
Gs claim. Ive not identified any record of storm force winds or unusually heavy rainfall 
during that time in the area where Ms G lives. The closest to storm conditions I found was a 
47mph peak gust of wind at midday five days before her claim, but that was recorded eight 
miles away. There wasnt any accompanying rain.  Ms G is covered for storm damage, but 
the policy defines a storm as very strong winds powerful enough to cause structural 
damage to homes within its path. Its usually accompanied by torrential rainfall, hail or heavy 
snow. I dont think the brief, strong gust of wind several miles away from Ms Gs home 
meets this definition of a storm, so it was fair for RSA to decline the claim.
For completeness, Ive looked at whether it wouldve been fair for RSA to decline Ms Gs 
claim if this gust of wind had been in her area. To decide this Ive looked at the surveyors 
expert report and photos of the damage both to the roof and inside the kitchen. The photos 
of the roof show damage to the rear of the flat roof where it meets the wall in the corner. 
There is evidence of previous repairs to the flashing, and tarpaulin has been nailed over and 
onto the roof which, when pulled back, shows worn felt. The condition of the felt roof is 
consistent with wear and tear. Its also clear from the photos of the kitchen that the water 
ingress has been ongoing for some time - there is rust around the edges of the ceiling where 
the water marks are. 
Based on this evidence, it seems to me that the roof has been worn for some time and water 
has been leaking into the kitchen gradually. The evidence does not indicate any damage 
typical of that caused by a storm, nor does it seem that the damage is due to a single 
insured event.
So, for these reasons, Im satisfied that it was fair for RSA to decline Ms Gs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman