DRN-1515466
The complaint
Ms A is unhappy that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited ('LV') has declined her 
claim on her car insurance.
What happened
In December 2018, Ms A took out car insurance with LV for a car she was about to 
purchase. During the sales call she was asked if the car had a tracker. After confirming with 
her husband, she said that it did. In July 2019, Ms As car was stolen from outside her home. 
She called LV to let it know about the theft and it asked if the tracker was activated. Ms A 
confirmed that she hadnt activated the tracker or paid for anything such as a subscription 
with the car manufacturer for the tracker.
LV looked into her claim, but declined it on the basis Ms A didnt have an active tracker in 
the car and under the terms this meant she wasnt covered for theft. She disagreed with the 
outcome and raised a complaint, but LV didnt change its position. Ms A brought her case to 
our service through a professional representative. They argued that LV couldnt rely on the 
term about having an active tracker whilst the car was parked as this wasnt brought to Ms 
As attention in the sales call. They also said English wasnt her first language and listed 
rules and legislation that LV was in breach of.
Our investigator didnt think LV had done anything wrong. However while the case was with 
our service, LV refunded part of Ms As premium for the year. It chose to do this as it had 
declined her claim and so felt she was due a pro-rata refund of premiums from when she 
cancelled the policy. As we didnt uphold the case, Ms A, through her representatives, asked 
for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I've carefully read all the submissions 
provided, but I won't be replying to every point individually because I think this case comes 
down to the following key issue  whether LV made the terms relating to the tracker clear to 
Ms A  so they can now fairly be relied on when assessing her claim.
The car needing to have an active tracker is first mentioned to Ms A in the policy set up call. 
The advisor asks her about the tracker early on in the call and then at the end of the call 
says:
And again, the car's only covered - and again, it's important that the car does have an 
active tracker otherwise we couldn't insure- otherwise we couldn't insure this car.
Following the call, Ms A was sent the policy terms and conditions and her policy schedule. 
And on page one of the schedule it says:
The tracking device must be activated when your vehicle is parked. If not we won't pay 
for any loss or damage caused by theft or attempted theft.Ms As representative has said as LV didnt say in the sales call that the tracker had to be 
active when the car was parked, it cannot rely on this term. However I disagree. First, it isnt 
possible to draw every term to a consumers attention during the sales call, this is why 
follow-up paperwork is sent and should be read  the letter sent does instruct Ms A to check 
the information enclosed. And the term in question is on the policy schedule, a document 
often used to highlight important terms. I'd also note that this term isn't unusual in insurance 
for this type of car. Second, in the call the advisor told Ms A the car had to have an active 
tracker to be insured. So he didnt say, for example, that the tracker must be active when 
the car was driven  leaving Ms A uncertain about what should happen when it was parked. 
He said it must be active  which, without any further comment, I consider can and should 
have reasonably been interpreted as it having to be active at all times. Further, in this case it 
appears Ms A simply did not activate the tracker at all. So I do consider she shouldve been 
aware she was in breach of what LV had set out she must do. It isnt the case that she had 
deactivated the tracker when she parked her car the evening before it was stolen, she never 
activated it.
Ms As representative has also argued that theres a difference between having an active 
tracker and the tracker being activated. However, as LV clearly set out the requirement the 
tracker had to be active, I think its reasonable for it to then leave it to Ms A to activate it. I 
also note in the call she said her other car had a tracker as well, so I think this couldve 
suggested to the advisor an understanding of how these work. And in any event, the 
activation of the tracker itself is something Ms A needed to do separately with another party, 
so I dont consider LV did need to involve itself further in this. Her confirming the vehicle had 
a tracker and LV confirming it had to be active is in my view LV doing enough in relation to 
the contract it holds with Ms A. If she was unclear on how to go about the activation process, 
I consider it was for her to ask further questions of either LV at that time or to contact the 
manufacturer of this type of vehicle once shed bought it.  
Ive listened to the sales call as the representative has also argued LV needed to explain 
things more clearly because English was not Ms As first language. However on listening to 
the call, I dont agree that the conversation shouldve prompted LV to act differently. The call 
flows reasonably well and Ms A is able to answer the questions asked  only requiring help 
from her husband when asked specifics about the new car, because shes checking them, 
not because of a language issue. It doesnt come across as if shes struggling due to a 
language barrier. If Ms A felt that her grasp of English wasnt good enough to have this call, 
then she needed to ask LV for additional support. So this doesnt change my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman