DRN-4067143
The complaint
Mr T complains about the unavailability of his online and mobile banking in relation to his
account held with The Co-operative Bank Plc.
What happened
Mr T says his online and mobile banking wasnt working on several occasions at the end of
August and beginning of September 2022. He said hed wanted to make payments but
couldnt do so. Hes said when he tried to phone Co-op the waiting times were very long, and
he was unable to drive to a branch. Hes unhappy he had to chase Co-op for a response to
his complaint and that their response was issued online although Co-op knew hed been
experiencing issues accessing this.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He referred to Co-ops terms and conditions
which state occasionally some or all of the services may not be available. Our investigator
also explained we wouldnt be able to look at some elements of Mr Ts complaints about Co-
ops complaint handling process. Mr T didnt agree. He said it is good practice to have
internet banking available at all times and hes frustrated not to have received an apology or
compensation for the inconvenience.
Because Mr T didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to consider. I issued a 
provisional decision, an extract of which is provided below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In Co-ops terms and conditions, it says Not all Online and Mobile Banking services 
are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The terms and conditions also go on to 
say You can usually use Online and Mobile Banking at all times but occasionally 
repairs, updates and maintenance on our systems means that some or all of the 
services arent available or may be temporarily slow. When this happens you will still 
have use of your accounts and other services we provide by calling us or visiting a 
branch.
Co-op has agreed that they did experience some technical issues with their online 
and mobile banking facilities at the end of August and beginning of September. Co-
op have explained their digital services were unavailable on 27 August but these 
were back up and running in the afternoon. Mr T has said he continued to experience 
problems with his access on 31 August, 1 September and 2 September. Having 
looked at an internal memo provided by Co-op it does seem that a number of 
services were impacted on 1 September although theyve said the issues were 
resolved that day.
I accept that there may have been points where Mr T was unable to use his online 
and mobile banking as Mr T has provided screenshots to evidence he encountered 
difficulties. But Ive looked at Mr Ts online mobile banking activity and can see he 
accessed this on 27 August, 30 August, 31 August, 1 September and 2 September. 
So it does seem that Mr T was able to use his online mobile banking at various points 
over the period in question.
Mr T has said he wanted to make important payments during the time in which he 
couldnt access his account and referred to missing out on a good deal. However, Mr 
T hasnt provided any further details of this. Should he want us to consider any 
financial loss, hell need to provide further information with supporting evidence for us 
to consider.
I dont doubt that not having access to his account in the way hed like was frustrating 
for Mr T but unfortunately, events like this can happen as part of day to day life. As it 
stands Im minded to say Co-op dont need to do anything further. I say this because 
it seems the issues were intermittent, didnt last for a long period of time and Mr T 
was still able to access his account at various points during this period.
Ive also considered Mr Ts statements which indicate the account wasnt used in a 
way that would suggest a lack of access would cause Mr T considerable issues. For 
example Mr T has said he needed to make an important payment of £300 but the 
statements show this was credited and debited on the same day which suggests the 
funds were held elsewhere. And similar transactions took place before and after.
Mr T is unhappy that Co-op didnt notify its customers of the technical issues. But it 
seems that this wasnt planned maintenance, so I dont think Co-op did anything 
wrong by not giving Mr T advance warning that he may not be able to fully access his 
account. It does seem that Co-op updated its website to let its customers know what 
was happening which I think is reasonable.
Mr T has said he wasnt able to drive to a branch given the distance and that he also 
has a medical condition. He says he tried to contact Co-op by phone but he was 
waiting for over an hour. But as Ive explained, Mr T seems to have had access to his 
account at various points. Although I appreciate he may have been kept waiting a 
long time on the phone, this may have enabled him to access his account during the 
times he wasnt able to use his online or mobile banking facilities.
Mr T would also like Co-op to provide an apology. Having looked at their response of 
31 August they said they were sorry the services he wanted were not available on 27 
August. So I do think they have acknowledged and apologised for the issues that 
arose at that time. So Im minded to say I dont think they need to do anything further. 
And for the reasons Ive explained above, as it stands I dont think Co-op need to 
award any compensation either.
Mr T is unhappy about the way his complaint was handled, for example that he had 
to chase Co-op for a response to his complaint and that when he spoke to an adviser 
they explained a response had been issued to him online even though they were 
aware that Mr T didnt have access. As our investigator explained, this part of Mr Ts 
complaint is about complaint handling which falls outside of our jurisdiction, so Im 
not been able to comment on this. As such, its not formed part of my decision.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I do not uphold this complaint..Co-op replied to say they were satisfied with the provisional decision. Mr T didnt reply by the 
deadline I set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there hasnt been any new information, I see no reason to depart from the findings I 
reached in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman