DRN-3637679
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy that Wise Payments Limited wont refund money she lost as a result of a 
scam.
 
What happened
Ms W agreed to the long-term rental of a property. She believed that the arrangement was 
taking place through a well-known and legitimate property rental website. In fact, shed been 
deceived into making the payment outside of the legitimate websites platform and, 
unfortunately, to a fraudster. 
Ms W transferred £2,100 to Wise (from her bank account at another financial business that 
Ill call L) and instructed it to make a payment to a bank account in another country.
When the fraudster cut off contact, Ms W realised shed been the victim of a scam. She 
reported the matter to both Wise and L. Wise said that it couldnt be held responsible for her 
loss as it wasnt for it to vet the recipient of a transaction. It said that it would have no reason 
to have concerns about the payment Ms W made given its size and nature. It did, however, 
attempt to recall the payment, but this attempt was unsuccessful. 
L refunded half the money Ms W lost - £1,050. It decided that Ms L was eligible for 
reimbursement under the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code 
(CRM Code), but it later realised the CRM Code didnt apply to the transaction Ms W made 
as her money had not gone to another person in the first instance. 
Ms W, represented by her father Mr W, referred the matter to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. They agreed with Wise that there 
would be no reason for it to consider the payment suspicious and that it had done what it 
could to try and recover the payments. 
Mr W disagreed. In summary he said:
-Wise is advertised as completely secure, so it ought to reimburse Ms W. He provided 
screenshots to demonstrate this.
-It failed to carry out proper vetting of the accounts used by fraudsters.
-Wise shouldnt escape liability because it had failed to sign up to the CRM Code. 
-Recent case law clearly shows that financial businesses do have obligations in 
relation to fraudulent transactions.
-Wises complaint handling was poor, and it shouldnt have dealt with the complaint 
entirely through emails.
Despite a further response from our investigator, no agreement could be reached, so the 
case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Ms W instructed Wise to make the payment, albeit under deception. 
Under the relevant regulations  the Payment Services Regulations 2017  that means she 
is responsible for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Wise 
should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Mr W has pointed to recent case law to support his position. As Ive set out above, I accept 
that Wise had obligations to be on the lookout for out of character and unusual transactions, 
but the question I need to consider is whether there were grounds for it to suspect fraud. 
Ms W hadnt made any payments using her Wise account before she made the payment 
which is the subject of this complaint. Wise is a business which specialises in international 
payments and although it provides accounts which can be used for everyday spending, this 
is not how Ms W was using its services. Instead she instructed it to make a single payment. 
Its likely that many customers of Wise will use its services in this way  opening an account 
only when the need to make an international payment arises. 
The amount of money Ms W sent, while clearly not insignificant, doesnt in and of itself 
suggest any heightened risk of fraud. I also cant see that Wise knew anything about the 
recipient of the funds that ought to have given it cause for concern (an account which was 
neither held by Wise, nor would it have had any control over).
All of this means that, without any interaction between Ms W and Wise before the payment 
was made, I cant see any reason why Wise would have suspected Ms W was falling victim 
to a scam and I dont think it had any reason to intervene and question the payment before it 
was made.
The CRM Code is a voluntary code and Wise is not a signatory. But, as our investigator has 
mentioned, the CRM Code, in any case, only applies to domestic payments. So, even if 
Wise were a signatory, this payment would not be covered under the CRM Code. As already 
noted, L eventually realised that the payment from Ms Ws bank to Wise was not covered 
under the CRM Code either and, had it realised that at an earlier point, Ms W is unlikely to 
have received any reimbursement at all.
Mr W has provided in evidence various screenshots which, he argues, show that Wise made 
claims about the security of the accounts it provides. But, I havent seen anything within 
those screenshots that amounts to a claim that it would refund all instances of authorised fraud and I dont think such a claim could be reasonably inferred from those screenshots 
either. I further note that, in any case, many of the claims hes pointed to dont actually 
appear to have been authored by Wise. 
Wise attempted to recall the payment within a few days of the matter being reported. While it 
might have done this a little sooner, the beneficiary did not respond, so its very unlikely any 
earlier action would have made a difference. Unfortunately, the chance of recovering funds 
which are sent internationally is very low and, in my experience, often reliant on the consent 
of the beneficiary account holder.
Finally, Mr W has mentioned unhappiness with Wise dealing with the complaint entirely 
through email. Im unable to see that, at the time the complaint was raised, he or Ms W 
expressed any unhappiness about the communication method or requested an alternative 
and Im satisfied Wise provided a response (albeit a slightly informal one) to Ms Ws 
complaint well within the time period it had to respond.
While Im sympathetic to the circumstances Ms W finds herself in, Im afraid that I can see 
no reason to hold Wise responsible for her loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman