DRN-4353263
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Unum Ltd has turned down an incapacity claim she made on a group 
income protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs C is insured under her employers group income protection insurance policy. The policy 
provides gainful occupation cover and includes a deferred period of 26 weeks. 
In February 2022, Mrs C was signed-off work with family stress. A family member for whom 
Mrs C carried out caring responsibilities was very ill and Mrs C wasnt coping with the 
situation. The GP referred Mrs C for counselling. The fit notes initially recorded that Mrs C 
was off work with family illness and stress at home, but in May 2022, the notes stated that 
Mrs C had mixed anxiety and depressive disorder. In June and August 2022, Mrs Cs 
employer referred her to occupational health (OH). Both OH advisers concluded that Mrs C 
wasnt fit to work due to personal stressors. In September 2022, Mrs Cs employer made an 
incapacity claim on the policy.
Unum assessed the claim, including with clinical members of staff. Based on the available 
medical evidence, it didnt consider there was enough to demonstrate that Mrs C had a 
significant, impairing mental health condition. Instead, it felt Mrs C was suffering from an 
understandable reaction to her difficult family circumstances. So it didnt think she met the 
policy definition of incapacity throughout the entire deferred period between February and 
August 2022. And, therefore, it turned down her claim. 
Mrs C was unhappy with Unums decision and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator recommended that Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
available medical evidence showed that Mrs C had been - and still was  suffering from 
depression and anxiety throughout the deferred period. She considered that Mrs C had met 
the policy definition of incapacity and that it hadnt been fair for Unum to turn down the claim. 
She recommended that Unum should pay Mrs Cs claim, together with interest. 
I issued a provisional decision on 3 August 2023, which explained the reasons why I thought 
it had been fair for Unum to turn down Mrs Cs claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of the insurance policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether I 
think Unum handled Mrs Cs claim fairly. 
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mrs Cs 
employers contract with Unum. Mrs Cs employer made a claim on her behalf for incapacity 
benefit, given she wasnt fit for work. So I think it was reasonable and appropriate for Unum 
to consider whether Mrs Cs claim met the policy definition of incapacity. Unum provided 
gainful occupation cover. Ive turned then to look at this particular definition of incapacity.
The policy says: 
A member is incapacitated if we are satisfied that they are unable, by reason of their illness 
or injury, to perform the material and substantial duties of: 
- The insured occupation, and of 
- Any gainful occupation with any employer for which they are reasonably fitted by 
reason of training, education or experience; and
 - They are not performing any occupation. 
This means that in order for Unum to pay Mrs C incapacity benefit, it must be satisfied that 
she had an illness or injury which prevented her from carrying out the material and 
substantial duties of her own or any gainful occupation. 
The policy says that Unum will begin to pay incapacity benefit the day after the end of the 
deferred period. This means that in order for benefit to be paid, Mrs C needed to have been 
incapacitated in line with the policy terms for the entire deferred period and afterwards. As 
such then, Mrs C needed to show that she was incapacitated due to illness between 
February and August 2022.
 Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid 
claim on their policy. This means it was Mrs Cs responsibility to provide Unum with enough 
evidence to demonstrate that an illness had led to her being unable to carry out the duties of 
her own or any gainful occupation for the full 26-week deferred period (between February 
and August 2022) and afterwards. 
Unum assessed the evidence Mrs C provided in support of her claim, including with clinical 
staff. While it sympathised with Mrs Cs position, it concluded that she wasnt suffering from 
a functionally impairing mental illness which prevented her from carrying out her role.
Instead, it felt that Mrs C was suffering with a reaction to her circumstances which most likely 
didnt amount to a defined medical problem. So Ive next looked at the available medical and 
other evidence to assess whether I think this was a fair conclusion for Unum to draw. 
Ive first looked at the claim forms completed by both Mrs C and her employer. In September 
2022, Mrs C stated that she had anxiety and mixed depression symptoms - continuous. Mrs 
Cs employer said that Mrs C first went absent due to stress from her home lifeHer 
relative was very unwell and (Mrs C) was (their) main carerThis had caused her a lot of 
stress and impacted her mental health. 
Next, Ive considered Mrs Cs GP records. On 21 February 2022, the GP noted that Mrs C 
was suffering from stress at home. Her relative was very ill. The records show that Mrs C 
was stressed, unable to concentrate at work and requests a sick note. 
A fit note was issued stating that Mrs C was unfit to work due to stress at home. Around a 
week later, the GP recorded that Mrs C had requested a referral to a counsellor. She was 
not coping with home situation.
In mid-March 2022, the notes say that Mrs C had seen the mental health practitioner. They 
state that she was still feeling very stressed. And a further fit note was issued stating that 
Mrs C was unfit for work due to stress at home. 
Mrs C spoke with the GP again on 29 April 2022. The GP notes say that Mrs Cs relatives 
illness was causing her understandable stress. Sedative medication was issued at this point 
to help Mrs C sleep. A fit note was issued which said that Mrs C was unfit for work due to severe family illness. 
By 30 May 2022, Mrs Cs GP noted that Mrs C had ongoing stress, low mood and anxiety. 
And they said that Mrs Cs counsellor thought Mrs C had anxiety and depression. From that 
point on, three months into the deferred period, the GP began to issue fit notes which said 
that Mrs C had mixed anxiety and depressive disorder. 
Mrs C also met with OH in June and August 2022. In June 2022, the OH adviser noted that 
Mrs C had been absent from work due to stress. This she reported as being solely related to 
concerns in her family life Mrs C tells me that she has been the carer for (relative) for 
many yearsthe impact of her relatives illness has caused her stress and low mood which 
has remained ongoing.
The OH adviser concluded that Mrs C wasnt fit for work due to the substantial impairments 
to her daily function which shed recorded. The OH adviser noted that Time-scales for return 
to work are difficult to predict and ultimately are dependent on the progression of her 
(relatives) illness and Mrs Cs mental resilience to this. In August 2022, the OH adviser 
recorded that Mrs C had been absent from February 2022 initially with stress at home 
related to her (relatives) illnessshe is currently certificated as unfit due to anxiety and 
depression until mid-September 2022. 
Again, the OH adviser concluded that Mrs C wasnt fit to work. They referred to longstanding 
medical conditions Mrs C had and to surgery shed undergone in July 2022 for an unrelated 
condition. They stated that Mrs Cs absence was related to personal stressors. 
Ive seen letters which show that Mrs C was offered a counselling appointment in mid-May 
2022. And in August 2022, Mrs C was discharged from the counselling service after eight 
appointments. The notes show that her sessions focused on anxiety and depression. Im 
aware too that since Unum declined the claim, Mrs C has been prescribed anti-depressant 
medication and has been referred back to counselling. 
Ive thought very carefully about all of the evidence thats been provided. Its important I 
make it clear that Im not a medical expert. In reaching a decision, I must consider the 
evidence provided by both medical professionals and other experts to decide what evidence 
I find most persuasive. Its clear that Mrs C was suffering from symptoms which can also be 
indicative of a significant mental health condition. Im conscious that Mrs C was ultimately 
prescribed medication and that she was referred to counselling at the outset. 
But, taking into account the totality of the medical and other evidence available to Unum 
when it assessed Mrs Cs claim, I currently think it was reasonable for Unum to conclude 
that the evidence showed  during the deferred period - that Mrs C was suffering from an 
understandable reaction to the very difficult situation in which she found herself. And that the 
main reason for Mrs Cs absence was likely the home stress she was experiencing as 
opposed to a mental health condition. It also appears, from the occupational health advisers 
report, that Mrs Cs return to work was dependent on the progression of her relatives illness. 
I think this evidence points towards the cause of Mrs Cs symptoms being the personal 
stressors. And that it indicates too that she was suffering from an understandable reaction to 
her personal circumstances rather than a functionally impairing mental illness which 
prevented her from carrying out her role. 
This means I dont presently think Unum acted unfairly when it decided that Mrs C wasnt 
suffering from a significant mental health condition, for the whole of the deferred period, 
which prevented her from carrying out the material and substantial duties of her own or any 
gainful occupation. I say that because until May 2022, the medical evidence shows that Mrs 
C was signed-off due to stress at home. No diagnosis appears to have been given of anxiety and depression until at least half-way through the deferred period. And even after that point, 
the OH advisers still appear to have concluded that Mrs C was off due to personal stressors 
at home, as opposed to an impairing mental illness. 
On this basis then, I dont think it was unfair for Unum to conclude that Mrs Cs absence 
wasnt due to an incapacity in line with the policy definition. Instead, I think it fairly concluded 
that Mrs Cs absence was more likely due to stress at home; personal stressors and a 
reaction to her circumstances.
 Id like to reassure Mrs C that Im not suggesting that she was fit for work. I appreciate she 
was medically signed-off. And I understand shes been through a very difficult time. But I 
need to decide whether I think shes shown she met the policy definition of incapacity for the 
whole of the 26-week deferred period. As Ive explained, I dont currently think she has. Its 
open to Mrs C to make a new claim on the policy - within a year of Unums decision to 
decline her first claim - if she feels shes since met the definition of incapacity. But I must 
make it clear that any new claim would be for Unum to assess in line with the contract terms 
and taking into account any medical evidence it required. 
Overall, based on all Ive seen, I currently find it was fair and reasonable for Unum to turn 
down Mrs Cs claim. 
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider. 
Unum accepted my provisional decision. 
Mrs C didnt agree with my provisional findings and Ive summarised her response. She said 
shed been signed-off for the whole of the deferred period. She agreed that shed initially 
been signed-off with stress at home, but she didnt see how she could have been 
diagnosed with a mental illness at the outset. If shed been aware of Unums criteria, she 
wouldve submitted the claim once her GP had completed a diagnosis of depression and 
anxiety. She said shed continued to work with her GP, a mental health nurse and a 
counsellor, whod given her a diagnosis of depression and anxiety. Mrs C said that she was 
on a waiting list for further counselling for ongoing sleeping problems, which greatly impact 
on her day-to-day functions. She told us her GP has recommended that she continue with 
medication and that shes under regular review. 
Additionally, Mrs C felt both her GP and counsellor have confirmed that she met the 
definition of incapacity. Mrs C said she hadnt been aware of the policy until she had a 
meeting with her employer about her sick pay ending. Shed made a claim immediately, 
although she wasnt aware of Unums incapacity criteria as shed never been given a copy of 
the policy terms and conditions. Mrs C queried why Unum didnt think shed met the 
definition of incapacity, but that the investigator had felt shed provided enough evidence to 
show she was incapacitated in line with the policy terms. And she queried the reason for the 
decline of claim. She told us that her condition hasnt improved and that this has been a very 
stressful situation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs C, I still think it was fair for Unum to 
conclude that there wasnt enough evidence to show she met the contractual definition of 
incapacity and Ill explain why. Its important I make it clear that the contract of insurance was between Unum and Mrs Cs 
employer. This means that Unums responsibility was to provide Mrs Cs employer with a 
copy of the policy terms and conditions  it wasnt obliged to send Mrs C a copy of the terms. 
And Unum also wasnt responsible for making Mrs C aware that she held income protection 
insurance cover. That was a matter between Mrs C and her employer. Id add though that I 
can see that, after Mrs Cs employer made a claim on Mrs Cs behalf, Unum clearly set out 
the definition of incapacity in its communications with the employer and the evidence it had 
asked for. 
As Ive explained above, I accept that Mrs C wasnt medically fit for work. Im sorry to hear 
shes been through a stressful and worrying time. But it remains the case that in order for 
Unum to accept and pay an incapacity claim, a policyholder needs to provide enough 
medical evidence to show, on balance, that they were incapacitated by an illness throughout 
the whole deferred period and afterwards. In Mrs Cs case, the medical evidence from the 
first three months of the claim states that she was suffering from stress at home. 
I appreciate Mrs C was diagnosed with mixed anxiety and depressive disorder in late May 
2022. However, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Unum to have concluded that 
the evidence dating from after May 2022 didnt demonstrate that Mrs C met the policy 
definition of incapacity either. Neither do I find that Unum acted unreasonably by concluding 
that Mrs C was suffering from an understandable reaction to her personal circumstances, as 
opposed to a functionally impairing mental illness which prevented her from carrying out the 
material and substantial duties of her own or any gainful occupation. Thats because, as I 
explained in my provisional decision, the June 2022 OH report stated that Mrs Cs stress 
was solely related to family concerns and that her recovery would depend on the 
progression of her relatives illness. And the August 2022 OH report stated that Mrs Cs 
absence was related to personal stressors. 
Mrs C says that if shed been aware of Unums incapacity criteria, she wouldnt have made 
a claim until shed received a diagnosis. However, I find Unum was entitled to use February 
2022 as the starting point of Mrs Cs deferred period, as that was the point she became 
absent from work. I also think Unum was also reasonably entitled to rely on 
contemporaneous medical evidence from February 2022 onwards, which showed the GPs 
diagnosis at this point in time and afterwards. It seems to me that even if Mrs C had waited 
until she had a firm diagnosis to make a claim, her medical notes between February and 
May 2022 would still have recorded a diagnosis of stress at home. 
I do sympathise with Mrs Cs position and as I explained above, Mrs C is able to make a new 
incapacity claim - providing new medical evidence - if she feels that she now meets the 
policy definition of incapacity. Such a claim would need to be made within a year of Unums 
decision to decline her first claim. I cant comment on how successful such a claim might be 
and it would be for Unum to assess any new claim in line with the policy terms and 
conditions.
Overall though, I still dont think it was unfair for Unum to have concluded that Mrs C hadnt 
shown she met the policy definition of incapacity throughout the whole of the February to 
August 2022 deferred period. And so I still find it was fair for Unum to turn down Mrs Cs 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman