DRN-3636619
The complaint
Mrs P, on behalf of the estate of Mr C, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC cannot confirm what 
happened to the funds that were showing in an old passbook.
What happened
Mrs P is the administrator of her late fathers estate. She says she found a passbook from 
Leicester Trustee Savings Bank containing a balance of just under £1,000. Mrs P says that 
she has contacted both TSB and Lloyds, along with My Lost Account, and no-one is able to 
tell her what happened to the account.
Lloyds said it had reviewed the accounts held by Mr C, and also referred Mrs Ps query to its 
Dormant & Inactive department. It said it was unable to locate a matching account.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Lloyds had carried out the necessary searches to try to locate the account and he 
considered that the details of the account were no longer, or may never have been, available 
within Lloyds.
Mrs P responded to say, in summary, that surely it should be possible to identify whether a 
similar amount of money may have been transferred to a newer account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that the last entry on Mr Cs passbook was on 31 October 1974 and shows a 
balance of £926.59. The following year Leicester Trustee Savings Bank became part of a 
larger TSB group and then, ultimately TSB. TSB merged with Lloyds in 1995, but 
subsequently separated again in 2013. So it is reasonable to ask both banks about their 
records as its not known when, or if, the account was closed.
I acknowledge Mrs P has already contacted TSB and My Lost Account and neither has been 
able to provide any record of her late fathers account.
With regard to Lloydss investigation, I can see it has identified Mr C had three accounts  
two were opened in October 2002 and a third was opened in January 1992. I acknowledge 
Mrs P says it should be possible to identify whether a similar amount (to that in the 
passbook) had been transferred into a newer account, but even the oldest of the three 
accounts was opened over 17 years after the last known entry in the passbook. As such, I 
find it would be impossible to say with any certainty that a transfer in to any of the accounts 
could be associated with the money in the passbook.
I note that, in April 2022, Lloyds did identify a profile using the account details from Mr Cs 
passbook account. Unfortunately, the system showed no details of any transactions given 
the time that had elapsed. If the identified account was indeed Mr Cs account, the Dormant 
and Inactive department at Lloyds confirmed that it could not find any entries for it, so 
concluded that it was closed prior to becoming dormant.
Where the evidence is incomplete, as is the case here, I must make my decision based on 
the balance of probability, that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened. I do not 
find it unreasonable that Lloyds cannot confirm what happened with this account, even if it 
was transferred during the merger in 1995. Banks are only obliged to retain records for six 
years after the last transaction on an account.
Based on all the evidence I have seen, I find it more likely than not that Mr C closed or 
transferred the money from his passbook account and that there is no outstanding balance 
to be claimed.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman