DRN-3711584
The complaint
Ms H has complained that Santander UK Plc has declined her request to extend the term of 
her interest-only mortgage.
To settle the complaint, Ms H wants Santander to grant a two-year extension to the 
mortgage term.
What happened
In January 2007 Ms H took out a mortgage with Santander, borrowing £150,699 on an 
interest-only basis over a term of 15 years. The mortgage term came to an end in May 2022 
and the outstanding balance has not been paid.
In May 2021 Santander wrote to Ms H reminding her that the mortgage would end in a years 
time, and asking her to let the bank know her repayment strategy. Ms H telephoned 
Santander and explained that she wasnt working but had savings and also owned another 
property with her father that she was starting the process of letting out. Ms H was confident 
of having long-term options to make sure the mortgage was paid off at the end of the term 
the following year.
Another reminder letter was sent by Santander in January 2022, following which Ms H spoke 
to Santander on 20 January 2022. She explained that she had cashed in the endowment 
policy that had been the intended repayment vehicle for the mortgage so she could live off 
the policy proceeds. Ms H said shed bought a derelict bungalow with her father that she 
intended to renovate, with her father paying for the work. Ms H said she wasnt working, but 
was using her savings to live off. 
Santander said that the mortgage was shortly due to come to an end and so payment was 
due at the end of the term. If Ms H wanted to extend the term, shed need to make a formal 
application, but Santander clarified that it would not accept her savings as income. Ms H 
said she didnt want to sell the other property until the work was completed, which she 
anticipated would take two years. She asked if her son could be guarantor on the mortgage, 
but as Ms H had no income, a new mortgage wasnt affordable. Santander suggested Ms H 
took independent financial advice.
Ms H wasnt happy about this and raised a complaint. In its final response Santander 
explained that, due to Ms Hs lack of income, the mortgage wasnt affordable, nor could the 
bank add Ms Hs son as a guarantor. Given this, Santander wasnt able to consider an 
application for a term extension.
Unhappy with Santanders response, Ms H contacted our service. An investigator looked at 
what had happened, but didnt think Santander was being unfair or unreasonable. He noted 
that Ms Hs plans had changed in relation to the other property; rather than refurbishing the 
existing property, it was to be demolished, with a new property built in its place. 
The investigator also noted that Ms H was living off her savings, and although shed said she 
would pre-pay the mortgage, the investigator explained that this wasnt something Santander 
allowed customers to do. Given the lack of affordability, overall, the investigator wasnt 
persuaded that Santander should be required to grant a term extension.
Ms H disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. To summarise the points shes made, Ms H believes her plan to build and sell a 
new property is a viable strategy to repay the mortgage in two years time, and that she can 
afford to make the monthly interest repayments over that period from her savings. Ms H says 
that, due to her exceptional circumstances, the rules that generally apply to customers 
requesting a term extension should be bypassed in her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken careful note of everything Ms H has said about her proposals and why she wants 
a term extension. However, the starting point here is that the contract she entered into with 
Santander was for the mortgage to be repaid by May 2022, and Ms H is now in breach of 
that contract. The original repayment vehicle  an endowment policy  is no longer available 
as a repayment strategy for the mortgage and so Santander is, naturally, concerned at how 
Ms H intends to repay the mortgage within the near future.
Santander is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that Santander makes in 
respect of what those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular lending 
assessment, and whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are clearly discretionary 
matters for Santanders own commercial judgement that I would not interfere with.
Ive considered what Ms H has said about her plans and that she intends to live off her 
savings whilst the new-build property is being completed, with a short-term loan from her 
father to cover the cost of the building work. But in order for Ms H to be granted a term 
extension, she would need to demonstrate that she had sufficient income to sustain the 
monthly repayments. Savings are not considered income, nor are family loans, and so I dont 
think its unreasonable for Santander to say that Ms H doesnt meet its lending criteria in this 
respect.
Santander is under a regulatory obligation to ensure the loans it offers to customers are 
affordable. Where a customer has no source of earned income, a mortgage couldnt be 
considered affordable. Whilst mortgage regulations allow lenders to waive an affordability 
assessment in certain circumstances when a change is requested to a mortgage contract, 
Im not persuaded that it would be reasonable to do so in this case. Thats because, taking 
into account the speculative nature of the development project, Ms H is effectively asking 
Santander to take on an increased risk in relation to the repayment vehicle. 
Given this, I think Santander is entitled to consider both affordability and repayment strategy 
in this case. Because neither meets the banks criteria, Im satisfied that there is no basis on 
which it would be fair or reasonable to expect Santander to disregard its regulatory 
obligations, or make an exception and grant Ms H a term extension.
Ive taken note of Ms Hs suggestion that, although Santander doesnt offer prepayment 
mortgages, this is something she thinks it (and all lenders) should offer. However, its up to 
Santander to decide what products it will offer to the market and how payments on these will 
be administered. 
I appreciate Ms H only wants a short-term extension while she completes the new-build 
property. But Santander is not in the business of offering short-term secured loans. There are, however, specialist lenders who are able to offer short-term loans of this nature, known 
as bridging loans. A bridging loan is designed to allow the borrower to buy something or pay 
off a debt (in this case, the mortgage to Santander) whilst waiting for funds to become 
available from the sale of another asset. With this type of loan, it is sometimes possible for 
interest to be prepaid at the start of the loan, depending on the individual terms and 
conditions.
It might assist Ms H to speak to an independent financial adviser about her options, such as 
sale of the mortgaged property, a re-mortgage to a new residential mortgage lender, or a 
bridging loan to enable Ms H to repay Santanders mortgage, at the same time enabling her 
to build and sell the new-build property.
I know this isnt the outcome Ms H was hoping for. I can see she feels very strongly that 
Santander has treated her unfairly  and I dont underestimate her strength of feeling. 
However, Im unable to find that Santander has done anything wrong in declining the term 
extension.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman