DRN-2011932
The complaint
Mr C is not happy that Lloyds Bank Plc increased his credit limit without doing any due 
diligence, and then went on to sell his debt to another company after telling him that he could 
pay what he could to reduce the debt. 
Mr C is also unhappy that Lloyds Bank Plc failed to consider taking over the equity release 
for his home and offset this against his debt. 
What happened
Mr C took out a credit card with Lloyds in August 2014 with a credit limit of £500. In July 
2016 Lloyds increased Mr Cs credit limit from £500 to £2,250. In September 2018 the credit 
limit was increased from £2,250 to £4,250. 
Lloyds says that it has acted fairly and that its decision to increase the credit limit was based 
on information held by credit reference agencies and its own internal risk strategies and 
review systems. It said that Mr C met its acceptance criteria for borrowing and that it carried 
out appropriate checks. Lloyds says that at the time of the credit limit increases Mr Cs 
circumstances were not such that it had cause for concern that he wasnt eligible for limit 
increases. So Mr Cs complaint regarding the increases was not upheld.
Mr C contacted Lloyds in December 2018 to discuss his financial difficulties. During that call 
Mr C was asked to complete some income and expenditure information which Mr C did not 
have to hand. Lloyds felt that it could have done more to assist Mr C during that call and paid 
Mr C £100 as compensation to reflect the shortcomings in service. Mr C received a further 
£100 in compensation to reflect the fact that he had written at least 12 letters to Lloyds to try 
and get his complaint resolved. 
As Mr C remained dissatisfied, he referred the case to our service. An investigator looked 
into things and felt that she couldnt say that Lloyds had acted unfairly. The investigator felt 
that Lloyds had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks when increasing the limit 
on the card and had given Mr C the opportunity to decline the increases. Mr C didnt agree 
with the investigator and so the complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I have decided not to uphold this complaint. I know that my decision will 
come as a disappointment to Mr C but I hope that my reasoning below will go some way to 
explain why I have reached this conclusion. 
Credit limit increase 
When considering what is fair and reasonable I take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice. The Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) rules, which can be found in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) section of the FCA Handbook, require a lender to undertake a reasonable 
assessment of a borrowers creditworthiness before significantly increasing the credit limit on 
his account (CONC 5.3.1(9)G)
I note that Mr C says that Lloyds should have checked certain criteria before offering Mr C 
an increase in his credit limit. Banks are not provided with a prescribed set of criteria that 
they must use to assess credit limit increases but they must be proportionate to things such 
as the amount borrowed, the cost of repayment, the information a customer provides about 
their financial situation, and the customers borrowing history. Lloyds decides how to set its 
lending criteria to come to its decision and its entitled to set those criteria using its 
commercial judgment. 
From the evidence I have seen I think Lloyds carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks on Mr C before increasing his credit limit. In the six months prior to the credit limit 
increases Mr C had maintained all his payments and kept within the agreed credit limit. 
Lloyds explained that within their credit card database they have a review system built into it 
which monitors how customers manage their accounts and make payments. Its own internal 
checks were completed satisfactorily. Lloyds have confirmed that the evidence provided to 
me regarding the credit checks is commercially sensitive and therefore I am unable to share 
those details here. 
Lloyds wrote to Mr C before increasing his credit limit. In those letters it explained that if the 
customer does not wish to have the credit limit increased then they should contact the bank 
to let it know. Mr C didnt choose to do this and therefore the credit limit increases took 
place. From what I have seen I think Lloyds gave Mr C reasonable notice to refuse the credit 
limit increases. 
Equity release 
Mr C was trying to sell his house and suggested that Lloyds take over the equity release 
from another company and secure the debt owed against that. In their letter dated 22 
November 2019 Lloyds explained that on an unsecured debt they would not look to any form 
of security. Lloyds advised that if Mr C wanted to make an application for equity release he 
would need to make an appointment with the local branch. Mr C felt that in his experience 
the local branch would not have the relevant expertise to deal with equity release and 
therefore Lloyds would have to arrange for a specialist to deal with the application. Mr C then 
advised that he had an appointment with another provider to sign the relevant paperwork. 
In their letter dated 20 December 2019 Lloyds confirmed that equity release would not be 
something that would be dealt with in branch and if it could assist it would have to seek help 
from another part of the banking group. The letter also confirmed that it would only offer their 
own products rather than provide whole of market advice. 
The issue regarding equity release was dealt with as I would have expected. Mr C was 
advised that he would need to make an appointment in branch to discuss further and that the 
branch would then take the necessary steps to assist Mr C. Mr C chose not to do this. I dont 
think I can reasonably expect for the bank to arrange any equity release agreement without 
having full and proper information. By that time Mr C had advised Lloyds that he had made 
necessary arrangements and therefore it was reasonable for Lloyds not to pursue this issue 
further. 
Debt being passed to another companyMr C feels that the letter dated 17 August 2019 in which Lloyds advised him that he could 
pay what he can is a contract and that by passing his debt onto another company it has 
breached a contract term. I dont agree. By agreeing to allow Mr C to pay what he could the 
bank was trying to assist him in paying off his credit card debt. The existing agreement 
between Mr C and the bank permitted Lloyds to accept lower payments without affecting its 
ability to exercise other contractual rights, such as selling the debt. 
At the point that Lloyds sent Mr C the letter dated 17 August 2019 the credit card account 
had been with the Collections team for a number of months. The bank passed the account to 
a third party in September as it had exhausted all internal collections and recoveries 
processes. 
Mr C had missed payments from January 2019 and the bank wrote to him on at least four 
occasions with missed payment notices. The terms and conditions of Mr Cs credit card 
states the following;
missing payments could have severe consequencesif you continue to miss payments we 
may sell your debt, and we or the purchaser may take legal action to recover any money you 
owe us 
I am sorry that Mr C has found himself in the position that he has. I have carefully 
considered the actions of Lloyds from the time that Mr C missed his payment in January 
2019. Having done so I cant say that the bank have acted unreasonably. They have acted in 
line with their terms and conditions and have been in regular contact with Mr C to try and 
resolve the matter for him. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman