DRN-3163066
The complaint
Ms S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC breached her confidentiality by disclosing her address 
to her ex-husband. 
  
What happened
Lloyds disclosed Ms Ss address to her ex-husband in error which meant Ms S had to find 
alternative accommodation to protect her own, and her familys, safety and well-being. After 
Ms S moved, Lloyds updated their records with Ms Ss new address. Ms S referred her 
complaint to our service and this was resolved by Lloyds paying compensation to Ms S. 
Then, three years later, Lloyds disclosed Ms Ss new address to her ex-husband in error.  
Ms Ss ex-husband contacted Ms S to say he knew where she lived. So, Ms S had to move 
again. Ms S complained to Lloyds that they had breached her confidentiality again.    
Lloyds responded and accepted they had made an error by disclosing Ms Ss address to her 
ex-husband. Lloyds offered compensation of £5,000 for the upset caused. During the course 
of our investigation, Lloyds agreed to increase the offer of compensation to £6,000.  
Our investigator looked into things for Ms S. She thought Lloyds offer of compensation was 
reasonable and wouldnt be asking them to do anything further. Ms S disagreed so the 
matter has come to me for a decision.    
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Ms S will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.  
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Ms S. The key facts about the complaint arent in 
dispute. Lloyds have admitted they got things wrong when they disclosed Ms Ss address to 
her ex-husband on a second occasion. The only issue I have to decide is whether their offer 
to put things right is fair and reasonable.
I think its right that Lloyds should compensate Ms S for the extreme distress, worry and 
inconvenience caused by their poor service. There is a relevant history in that a similar error 
was made by Lloyds in 2015 and, although that was resolved through our service with 
Lloyds paying Ms S compensation of £3,000, I think its important to acknowledge the further 
error has led to Ms S losing complete faith and confidence in Lloyds ability to safeguard her 
information. 
Ive reviewed Ms Ss testimony together with a police report. I wont go into detail about     
Ms Ss reasons for not wanting her ex-husband to be aware of her address, but its clear 
Lloyds are aware of these reasons following the first occasion they disclosed Ms Ss 
address. And, from Ms Ss testimony, I understand why the disclosure of her address more 
recently caused her to be extremely worried about her own and her familys safety. 
Generally, moving home can be quite stressful but often its planned and expected. In this 
case, it wasnt something Ms S had planned or was anticipating  it was out of necessity for 
her safety rather than through her own choice. She had been at her property for a number of 
years so having to move due to Lloyds error has caused her an extreme amount of 
inconvenience. And, in addition to that, there is the extreme worry to Ms S of knowing her 
ex-husband has her address and what might happen as a consequence. 
This is the second occasion Lloyds disclosed Ms Ss address to her ex-husband and it was 
at a time when Ms S says she had felt safe for a number of years. Any impact will have 
understandably been exacerbated given that Ms S had gone through the same worry and 
inconvenience a few years prior. So, I think its fair that any compensation should be higher 
than what Lloyds awarded after the first error. 
While I dont underestimate the worry and inconvenience to Ms S, its important that I 
consider all factors which are relevant to my decision on what I think is a fair level of 
compensation here. I can see our investigator has asked Ms S for any evidence of financial 
loss  this includes any losses arising out of having to end her previous tenancy agreement 
or costs of relocating. But, Ms S hasnt provided any evidence. So, the compensation being 
offered here is purely for the emotional impact and inconvenience to Ms S. 
I fully acknowledge the impact to Ms S when she found out her ex-husband was aware of 
her address and the extreme worry to her while she still remained at her previous address. I 
can see Ms S did move address so I cant say the same level of worry and distress remained 
from that point as Ms S was then living at an address not known to her ex-husband. So, I 
think its fair to say the highest level of worry and upset experienced by Ms S will have been 
at the time she remained at her previous address knowing her ex-husband was aware she 
lived there. But, the emotional impact of this wouldve lessened once Ms S was able to 
move. So, I cant say this same level of impact remains and will continue going forward. I 
accept there are a range of things which couldve happened following Ms Ss ex-husband 
finding out her address but I can only look at what happened as well as Ms Ss worry about 
what might happen while she was still at her previous address. And, I think Lloyds offer fairly 
reflects the impact on Ms S.   
Taking this all into account, I think Lloyds offer of £6,000 for the worry, distress and 
inconvenience is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Lloyds have made an error in disclosing Ms Ss address to her ex-
husband so they should pay her compensation of £6,000 for the worry, distress and 
inconvenience caused to her. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC must pay £6,000 to Ms S, if 
they havent done so already.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman