DRN-2867770
The complaint
Miss C complains about the service she received from Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax.
What happened
In May 2020, Miss C contacted Halifax via its digital messaging system to request a refund 
for an item shed paid for, using her debit card, which she said hadnt arrived. There were 
some delays in the responses from Halifaxs advisers over a period of 48 hours, meaning 
Miss C had to chase for an update more than once. Unhappy with how long the matter was 
taking to resolve, Miss C complained to Halifax.
Halifax reviewed matters and issued a final response letter. It confirmed that the refund was 
processed around two days after Miss C initially logged the dispute. It also explained that the 
delays in responses on the digital messaging system were as a result of the Covid-19 
pandemic, which had caused an increase in the messages it was receiving. However, it 
acknowledged the inconvenience caused to Miss C and paid her a total of £57 
compensation  £50 for the inconvenience caused, and £7 to cover the cost of the calls 
Miss C made to chase matters.
Miss C was unhappy with Halifaxs response and didnt think the compensation was enough 
to reflect the inconvenience caused. So, she brought her complaint to our service. Miss C 
was also unhappy as she says she didnt receive the final response letter from Halifax. She 
says she also raised a complaint about this, but Halifax didnt make a record of it, nor did it 
correspond with her any further about the matter.
One of our investigators reviewed things. In summary, he acknowledged that there were 
delays in communication on the digital messaging system, but he thought the compensation 
Halifax had paid was reasonable. In reference to Miss Cs second complaint, relating to the 
final response letter, he explained that our service couldnt consider complaints that are 
solely about complaint handling. 
Halifax didnt dispute our investigators findings, but Miss C did. She reiterated that she still 
hadnt heard anything from Halifax since she had raised her second complaint. As an 
agreement couldnt be reached, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Cs complaint. Ill explain my reasons why.
Its not in dispute that the service Miss C received couldve been better. There were delays 
in the responses from the advisers on the digital messaging system and Miss C had to 
chase for a response more than once over a 48-hour period. I can appreciate this wouldve 
caused Miss C some frustration and inconvenience at the time.
That being said, I also acknowledge that this happened towards the start of the Covid-19 
pandemic. This was a time where many businesses were receiving unprecedented volumes 
of calls and messages, as well as experiencing staff shortages and trying to adapt to working 
from home within a short period of time. Therefore, its understandable that communication 
may have been slower than usual.
However, Halifax has still recognised the frustration its service wouldve caused Miss C. 
And, it has paid her £57 compensation  made up of £50 for the inconvenience caused and 
£7 to cover the cost of the calls made to chase matters. Taking everything into account, 
including the circumstances outlined above, I think the awarded compensation fairly reflects 
the impact this matter had on Miss C. And, as I understand it, the refund was processed two 
days after Miss C logged the dispute. 
Miss C has also raised concerns about how Halifaxs advisers spoke to her throughout the 
process. However, having carefully reviewed the transcripts from the digital messaging 
system and listened to the calls available to me, Im not persuaded that Halifaxs advisers 
communicated with Miss C in an unprofessional manner.
I note that in further communications with this service, Miss C has said she is now mainly 
unhappy that she didnt receive a final response letter from Halifax. She also says shes 
unhappy that she asked Halifax to raise a complaint about this, but it didnt, and it also hasnt 
communicated with her any further about the matter. 
The points Miss C remains unhappy with are about how Halifax has handled her complaint. 
However, complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, or one of the other non-regulated 
activities, that this service can consider. So, although I understand Miss Cs strength of 
feeling on these points, I cant comment on them.
My final decision
I dont think Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax needs to do any more to resolve this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman