DRN-1969286
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI)s decision 
to settle a claim made against her car insurance policy.
 
What happened
In August 2019 UKI received a claim from a neighbour of Mrs Ms for damage they said was 
caused by Mrs Ms car. Mrs M and her neighbour share a driveway. UKI contacted Mrs M. 
She said she wasnt aware of any contact between her car and her neighbours.
In September 2019 UKI told Mrs M it intended to settle the third partys claim. Mrs M was 
very upset about UKIs decision. In October 2019 Mrs M complained to UKI about the 
following:
Its decision to hold her at fault for the incident. 
Its decision to refuse to provide photos and details given by the third party.
That UKI wouldnt provide a dedicated claims handler as a single point of contact 
for Mrs M.
That UKI failed to provide details of a manager when she asked to speak to one. 
UKI apologised for not replying to Mrs Ms request for a managers details to contact her. But 
it said it had correctly dealt with the claim and in line with the policy.
Mrs M remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. She said the experience 
had caused her sleepless nights with worry and anxiety. 
Our investigator thought UKI had reached its decision to settle the claim as a fault claim 
reasonably. And she thought its apology for failing to reply to Mrs Ms request for details of a 
manager was enough to put things right. 
Mrs M didnt agree. She has reiterated her concerns about the way UKI dealt with the claim. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide liability. This is the role of the courts. But we can look at whether an insurer 
has reached its decision reasonably and in line with the policy. Mrs Ms policy with UKI has a 
very common term which Ive seen in most  if not all car insurance policies. This term 
allows UKI to take over the defence and settlement of a claim. This means UKI might make 
a decision Mrs M doesnt agree with. But the policy allows UKI to do this. We dont disagree 
with this term in principle, provided the insurer can show it treated its customer fairly when 
applying it.
Having to deal with a claim can inevitably cause some worry and upset. It means that the 
insurers involved will ask for information from both parties in order to decide how best to 
settle the claim. I know Mrs M feels very strongly about the photos she provided as she feels 
they show there was no damage to the other car. She also says that the dates provided by 
the third party arent the same as the date she was given by UKI as to when the damage 
occurred. 
The third party provided still images taken from security cameras at their home. I appreciate 
that Mrs M disputes what they show, but I think they show her car door open against the 
door of the third party. There are a number of images which show contact on more than one 
occasion by an open door from Mrs Ms car against the third partys car. So I dont think the 
fact that the date of the incident - being a few days apart - makes a material difference in this 
case.
In September 2019 the third party provided photos and evidence of repair costs which UKI 
asked an engineer to consider. The engineer in his professional opinion found the costs to 
be reasonable and consistent with the damage being claimed for. 
Based on the information available, I cant say that UKIs decision to settle the third party 
claim was reached unreasonably. I understand Mrs M doesnt agree with the decision. But 
there isnt enough for me to say UKI hasnt properly investigated the claim.
UKI accepts that it didnt reply to one of Mrs Ms emails on 11 September 2019. For this it 
apologised. I think this was fair. I think UKI provided updates to Mrs M when it had new 
information. 
UKI said it couldnt provide some photos provided by the third party to Mrs M as it didnt 
have their consent to release a copy to her. I know Mrs M wanted to have a single point of 
contact with UKI so that when she spoke to it, she didnt need to go through the claim 
background each time. I can understand why Mrs M would have preferred this, but as a 
business UKI explained this isnt something it can offer. 
UKI told Mrs M that it has settled the claim on a without prejudice basis. This means that its 
decision to settle the claim doesnt prevent Mrs M from considering legal action against the 
third party separately if she wanted to. Mrs M would need to seek legal advice about that. 
I appreciate that having to deal with the claim caused Mrs M stress and anxiety. I think the 
circumstances of the claim were a contributing factor to this. Ive considered whether UKI as 
the insurer acted in a reasonable way when it dealt with the claim. I think UKI should have 
replied to Mrs Ms email dated 11 September 2019. But otherwise I think its overall handling 
of the claim was reasonable. 
I realise Mrs M will disappointed. But this means Im not upholding her complaint and so I 
dont think UKI needs to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman