DRN-3992611
The complaint
Ms C, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proportionate affordability checks before it granted her loans. Had it done so, Morses 
wouldve realised she couldnt afford the loans. 
What happened
Ms C was advanced six home collected loans between November 2017 and January 2020. 
Ive included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
weekly 
repaymentshighest 
repayment 
per loan
1 £300.00 23/11/2017 25/05/2018 33 £15.00
2 £500.00 25/05/2018 11/01/2019 33 £25.00
3 £500.00 11/01/2019 30/08/2019 33 £25.00
4 £250.00 31/05/2019 19/12/2019 33 £12.50
5 £500.00 06/09/2019 17/04/2020 33 £25.00
6 £400.00 14/01/2020 11/09/2020 34 £20.00
Following Ms Cs complaint, Morses wrote to her representative to explain that it wasnt 
going to uphold her complaint. Ms Cs representative didnt accept the outcome and referred 
the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. He thought Morses had made a reasonable decision 
to provide loans 1  3 so he didnt uphold Ms Cs complaint about these loans. 
However, the adjudicator said when loan 4 was approved, as there were outstanding loans, 
Ms C was committed to spending a significant portion of her income in servicing her debt to 
Morses. Finally, he thought the lending was now harmful for Ms C by the time loans 4 - 6 
were granted and so he upheld Ms Cs complaint about these loans. 
Morses disagreed with the outcome the adjudicator had reached for loans 4 - 6. Ive 
summarised its comments below;
Ms Cs borrowing for loans 4  6 was in line with loan values that she had previously 
taken.
Loans 1  3 were repaid without any undue difficulty. 
There is no evidence Ms C was using other funds to repay these loans.
Ms C declared she had sufficient disposable income to be able to afford loans 4  6. 
Morses wasnt aware of any financial difficulties which were affecting Ms C. 
Ms Cs representative confirmed she accepted the outcome. 
The case was then passed to an ombudsman to make a decision about the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms C could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and 
Ms Cs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms C. These factors include:
Ms C having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms C having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms C coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms C. The adjudicator thought this 
applied in Ms Cs complaint from loan 4. 
Morses was required to establish whether Ms C could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms C was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Cs complaint.
Neither Morses nor Ms C (or her representative) appear to disagree with the outcome the 
adjudicator reached about loans 1  3. I therefore no longer think these loans are in dispute. 
So, I say no more about them.
Loan 4 - 6 
For these loans, Morses has shown that it asked Ms C for details of her income and 
expenditure. For loans 4 and 6 Ms C declared a weekly income of £250. For loan 5 she declared she received £226.51. Morses also says this information was checked with a credit 
reference agency  but the results of that check havent been provided. 
In terms of expenditure this varied quite considerably between each loan. For loan 4, 
Ms C declared weekly outgoings of £210, then £122.50 for loan 5 and finally £147.50 for 
loan 6. 
This left weekly disposable income as low as £40 when loan 4 was advanced up to £104.01 
per week when loan 5 was granted. Based solely on Ms Cs income and expenditure 
information Morses couldve been reasonably confident she would be able to afford the 
repayments she was committed to making. 
But its arguable whether these checks went far enough considering how long Ms C had 
been indebted to Morses, her future weekly commitment and what Morses already knew 
about Ms Cs finances. For example, loan 4 was the first-time loans had been running 
concurrently. Moving forward, there are also changes to Ms Cs declared expenditure as 
well, for example no food costs were listed for loans 5 and 6 and rent was declared for loans 
3 and 4 but yet Ms C had no rent costs when loans 5 and 6 were granted. Finally, Ms C 
declared she paid council tax when loans 4 and 6 were given but not when loan 5 was. So, I 
do think its fair to say that at this point in time, Morses ought to have had some concerns 
about the information Ms C was providing about her living costs. 
By now, it wouldve been reasonable for Morses to have at the very least, started to have 
verified the information it was being given. Ive not seen anything to suggest it carried out 
further checks in this case. However, I dont think I need to try and establish, in this case, 
whether a proportionate check wouldve led Morses to conclude these loans were 
unaffordable for Ms C. 
And as the adjudicator pointed out, when loan 4 was granted, Ms C was committed to 
spending a significant portion of her income servicing the loan. Loan 3, was still outstanding 
at the time, so her total weekly commitment to Morses was £37.50. Which in my view, is a 
significant portion considering there were loans overlapping, and before loan 4 was 
advanced, Ms C only had £40 per week in disposable income, so with a payment of £12.50 it 
reduced this further to only £27.50.
So, the repayment for loan 4, in my view, represented a significant proportion of Ms Cs 
income. In these circumstances, there was a significant risk that Ms C wouldnt have been 
able to meet her existing commitments without having to borrow again. So, I think its 
unlikely Ms C wouldve been able to sustainably meet her weekly repayments for this loan  
and likely any subsequent loans.
So, in addition to looking at the checks that Morses did as well as the percentage of her 
income Ms C would need to use to repay loan 4, Ive also looked at the overall pattern of 
Morses lending history with Ms C, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Morses 
should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
And so Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Cs case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 4. I say this because:
At this point Morses ought to have realised Ms C was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Ms C had taking out her four loans in 18 months. So Morses ought 
to have realised it was more likely than not Ms C was having to borrow further to 
cover a long-term short fall in her living costs. From her first loan, Ms C was generally provided with a new loan on the same day a 
previous loan was repaid and / or was granted while another loan was still 
outstanding. To me, this is a sign that Ms C was using these loans to fill a long-term 
gap in her income rather than as a short-term need.  
Over the course of the lending relationship, Ms Cs weekly commitments to Morses 
were increasing, when loan 4 was granted her commitment was more than double 
the amount due for loan 1. There was no time when her weekly commitment 
decreased. However, the fact that these loans were lent in generally a consecutive 
and concurrent manner, ought to have led it to realise these loans werent 
sustainable anymore. 
Ms C wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Morses. Loan 6 was 
taken out 26 months after Ms Cs first loan and was to be repaid over a similar term. 
Her final loan was slightly smaller than loan 5 but as this was still outstanding it 
resulted in her largest weekly repayment to Morses of £45. Ms C had paid large 
amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an extended period.
I think that Ms C lost out when Morses provided loans 4 - 6 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Cs indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time
the number of loans and the length of time over which Ms C borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Ms Cs ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
Overall, Im upholding Ms Cs complaint about loans 4  6 and Ive outlined below what 
Morses needs to do in order to put things right.  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had if it had stopping lending from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms C may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms C in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms C would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morsess liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have provided Ms C with loans 4, 5 and 6. A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms C towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything Morses has already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Ms C which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms C originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should pay Ms C the total of A plus B.
D. The overall pattern of Ms Cs borrowing for loans 4 - 6 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Morses should remove these loans entirely from 
Ms Cs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Ms C a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Ms Cs complaint in part.
 
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Ms C as directed above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman