DRN-2285262
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the service he received from British Gas Insurance Limited (British 
Gas).
What happened
Mr D had a HomeCare policy with British Gas which ran from October 2018-2019. The policy 
covered boiler and central heating breakdown and included an annual boiler service.
An annual service was booked by Mr D for November 2019, but this was rescheduled at 
short notice. Mr D wasnt made aware it had been rescheduled until he contacted British Gas 
after the appointment didnt go ahead. 
When Mr D contacted British Gas, they said that Mr D wasnt actually entitled to the annual 
service, as he hadnt renewed his policy and it had ended in October 2019. Although Mr D 
wasnt entitled to it, as the appointment was rescheduled without notice, British Gas agreed 
the customer service hadnt been reasonable so they honoured the rearranged annual 
service.
Mr D wanted compensation for the overall service British Gas had provided, and as he 
remained unhappy, he approached this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend British Gas pay Mr D additional compensation. He 
acknowledged that the overall service received hadnt been in line with Mr Ds reasonable 
expectations, but he felt honouring the annual service was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr D didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not directing British Gas to pay Mr D additional compensation. Ill 
explain why.
Mr Ds HomeCare policy with British Gas started in October 2018 and ran for a year. Under 
the policy, Mr D was entitled to one annual boiler service within the policy year. He had this 
service carried out on 31 October 2018.
Mr D contacted British Gas on 30 September 2019 and arranged an annual service for 
22 November 2019, which would have been after renewal and into his next policy year. 
However Mr D decided not to renew his policy and this ended in October 2019. 
In error, British Gas didnt cancel the annual service booked for November 2019 when the 
policy wasnt renewed, so this was still scheduled to go ahead.
As the policy entitles the policyholder to one annual boiler service per policy year, Mr D had 
already had the benefit of this in the 2018-2019 policy. As he didnt renew in 2019, he wasnt 
entitled to a further free annual service, as he had already had the one he paid for as part of 
the 2018-2019 policy.
In error, this wasnt cancelled by British Gas when the renewal was stopped. But its clear 
that Mr D wasnt actually entitled to this as he didnt renew his policy.
The incorrectly arranged annual service was then rescheduled the day before it was due to 
be carried out. British Gas has explained this was due to a surge in demand for emergency 
callouts. And the policy terms do say that an annual service may need to be rearranged in 
periods of high demand, which is what happened here.
 
British Gas has been unable to locate any calls where theyd tried to contact Mr D to advise 
the appointment had been rescheduled, although a file note does indicate an attempt was 
made the day before the service was due. British Gas did send a letter at that time, but 
unsurprisingly Mr D didnt receive it until several days later and after the visit was due to take 
place.
When Mr D contacted British Gas, after a long period attempting to get through, they said 
that he wasnt actually entitled to the service, as hed not renewed his policy. But due to the 
overall service hed received, they said they would honour the rescheduled annual service.
Whilst Mr D is unhappy the annual service was rescheduled at short notice and he didnt 
receive communication of that, he wasnt actually entitled to that service. And even when 
British Gas noted this, they still honoured the annual service as a gesture for the overall 
service Mr D had received. The equivalent cost of the annual service was £65, and I think 
British Gas honouring it was reasonable in lieu of compensation. So Im not going to direct 
them to pay further compensation in addition to that.
I also note that Mr D said that when they did attend for the service, they carried out an 
inspection check rather than an annual service. But the notes provided indicate a service 
was what was arranged, and the policy terms also say what would be carried out for the 
annual service  a check to ensure it is working safely and in line with the relevant 
regulations - which doesnt necessarily mean dismantling the boiler if no faults are found.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman