DRN-2730001
The complaint
Mr G complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) erased the data on his tablet 
when repairing it. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In August 2020 Mr G contacted D&G to report that his tablet screen had been damaged. A 
claim was made under his Monthly Care insurance policy which covered accidental damage. 
The tablet was collected by a courier, repaired and returned to Mr G. At which point he found 
that the data he held on the tablet had been wiped and so he complained to D&G about this. 
Mr G said he wasnt told this would happen and considered D&G liable for the lost data. He 
wanted them to pay for the data to be retrieved by a recovery specialist.
D&G didnt uphold the complaint. They said the policy terms and conditions state that if a 
repair is carried out they will restore the item to its factory settings, deleting any data stored 
on it. And so, they wouldnt cover any data recovery service costs. 
The matter was referred to our service. One of our investigators looked into it but he didnt 
think D&G had to do anything further. He acknowledged Mr Gs frustration with losing the 
data but he explained the terms and conditions, which Mr G agreed to when taking out 
policy, set out that any data held on an item being repaired would be deleted. And that they 
also said D&G wouldnt be liable for files lost due to repair or replacement. 
Our investigator also noted that when Mr G called to report his tablet was damaged, he 
raised concerns about the data and the claim handler advised him to contact the repair 
team. So, he didnt think it would be fair to hold D&G responsible for the cost of retrieving the 
data as they acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Gs policy. 
Mr G disagreed with our investigator and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Gs dissatisfaction at losing the data on his tablet as I understand it 
contained work files and personal family photos. I appreciate this wouldve been very 
valuable to him. What I must consider here though is whether D&G is responsible for this. I 
know this isnt the outcome Mr G is hoping for but, I dont think they are and for similar 
reasons to that of our investigator. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions set out whats covered and excluded under the policy. They say:
HOW TO MAKE A CLAIM
All claims

Note, if we carry out a repair we will restore your item to factory settings. This will 
delete any data stored on the item. Please remember to regularly back up your data. 
And;
EXCLUSIONS

files lost due to a repair or replacement and your failure to back them up;
Im satisfied the above makes it clear that upon a repair being carried out, the data on the 
device will be deleted. It also encourages the policyholder to back up their data to avoid such 
a loss occurring as D&G wont be liable if it happens. 
Mr G says he didnt receive a copy of the policy terms and conditions and that he never 
agreed to them. He says he only has the receipt of purchase for the tablet.
Ive carefully considered this, but I think its reasonable to expect documentation would be 
received when taking out an insurance policy. In this case, I understand the terms and 
conditions are included as part of a leaflet which wouldve been provided when the tablet 
was sold. So, if Mr G didnt receive the policy details  including the terms and conditions - 
then I think he ought to have flagged this at the time. I cant see that this happened.
The policy terms and conditions, in short, sets out the contract between both parties. And so, 
by taking out the policy Mr G agreed to such conditions. If Mr G was unhappy with the policy 
conditions, then he had the option to seek cover from a different provider if he wished. It 
follows that by carrying out the repair in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Gs policy, I 
think D&G has acted fairly. 
I understand Mr G feels he shouldve been told the data would be deleted prior to sending it 
for repair. Ive listened to the call when Mr G reported the damaged tablet and he did raise 
concerns about the data being lost. I therefore accept the data was of importance to him and 
that he was worried about the possibility of losing it. However, the claims handler 
recommended Mr G contact the repair team further about this and provided the telephone 
number to do so. It seems Mr G didnt follow this up but if he had, then I think the repair team 
wouldve explained to him that they would be restoring the tablet to its factory settings 
(deleting the data). Mr G wouldve then had the option of going ahead with the repair or not, 
but I dont think I can hold D&G responsible for this. 
I sympathise with Mr Gs situation but, for the above reasons, I dont think D&G has acted 
unfairly or outside the policy terms and conditions when repairing the tablet.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman