DRN-3213996
The complaint
Mr K complains that BISL Limited wont refund part of his car insurance premium.
What happened
Mr K took out an RAC car insurance policy, administered by BISL, in June 2020. His policy 
ran from 16 July 2020 to 15 July 2021.
Mr K phoned BISL on 6 May 2021. He explained that, because of the coronavirus pandemic, 
he wouldnt use the full mileage allocation that he selected at the start of the policy. Because 
of this, he believed BISL should refund part of his premium.
BISL told him it wouldnt do this. It told Mr K that it didnt offer refunds but if he wanted to 
cancel his policy it would waive its standard cancellation fee. Mr K was unhappy with this, so 
he brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. She found that 
Mr K hadnt asked BISL to reduce his mileage until May 2021. She was satisfied BISL set 
out Mr Ks options when he called in May 2021, including cancelling the policy, declaring his 
car SORN, or reducing the mileage. As a result, she didnt think BISL had done anything 
wrong.
Mr K disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to consider.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 2 December 2021. I said:
First, a general point. As a result of the coronavirus pandemic, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) issued guidance to insurers to make sure they were treating their customers 
fairly. This didnt say insurers had to offer refunds to customers. And I dont think BISL was 
obliged to offer a refund even though Mr K was driving his car less. This is because the car 
was still insured, Mr K was able to drive it, and his insurer would be liable if there was a 
claim. And there was always the potential for a claim because the policy covered Mr Ks 
liability to third party road users and pedestrians. 
However, I think theres another issue here. 
Mr Ks policy schedule shows he estimated his annual mileage at 2,999 miles when he took 
out the policy. Section C of Mr Ks policy booklet (Important customer information) says he 
should contact BISL if he wanted to change anything about his policy. This includes if There 
is a change in estimated annual mileage. So Im satisfied that, under the policy terms, Mr K 
can ask BISL to reduce his mileage.
Mr K called BISL on 6 May 2021. BISL told us: Our staff member explained that as a 
business, we werent issuing a refund of premiums, but were doing other things in relation to 
COVID-19, which is to look at fees, payment problems and supporting key workers.
Ive listened to the call. Mr K explained that he hadnt been able to use his car as much as 
expected due to the coronavirus lockdown and asked BISL to refund part of his premium. 
The call handler told him BISL wouldnt offer a refund, and instead said he should have 
either cancelled his policy or taken his car off the road (known as a Statutory Off Road 
Notice or SORN). 
I dont think this was a reasonable response to Mr Ks query for two reasons. First, I dont 
think either of these options was realistic given Mr Ks circumstances  he parked on a 
public road so couldnt cancel his insurance or SORN the car. Second, the call handler 
focused on what Mr K should have done rather than tell him what he could do now.
Later in the call, the call handler told Mr K: If you knew youre not going to be driving the 
vehicle for the mileage you have declared to us, you could have phoned us and decreased 
the mileage. But again, this focused on what Mr K could have done in the past; the policy 
didnt expire for two months so Mr K still had the option of requesting a mileage reduction. If 
hed done so, his insurer might have made an adjustment even at that late stage. 
BISL later confirmed this to us: Mr [K] would have had the option to reduce the mileage of 
his policy. If Mr [K] had requested the mileage of his policy to be lowered, we would have 
looked at this accordingly for him. In my opinion, the call handler should have told Mr K he 
had this option. Instead, he gave Mr K the impression it was too late to do anything.
Im also concerned by some of the call handlers other comments to Mr K. For example: 
I will put a complaint in for you, but this complaint is not going to lead to anything. 
Ill do what I have to do which is put it through the complaints department. Theyll 
speak to you, but I know for a fact theyre going to say the same thing Ive been 
saying.
Believe me our key workers are so happy with us because of the way weve helped 
them out during the pandemic Ive had customers thanking me over the phone.
What I did, I cancelled my policy cos I knew Im not going to be using the car, Ive 
got a driveway to park it cos obviously Ive SORN the vehicle. Thats the way Ive 
helped myself out.
I dont think the call handler should have told Mr K it wasnt worth complaining. And I dont 
think his comments about key workers or what hed done with his own car were either 
relevant or appropriate. I understand why Mr K was frustrated by this.
I also think BISLs final response to Mr K on 17 May 2021 was inadequate. It said that if Mr K 
was unhappy and wanted to cancel his policy, it would waive its cancellation fee. But it didnt 
tell him he could still request a mileage reduction. So I agree with Mr K when he says BISL 
only gave him the option of cancelling the policy. In my opinion, BISL acted unfairly when it 
didnt tell Mr K that he could ask his insurer to reduce his mileage.
The question now is what would Mr Ks insurer have done if BISL had requested a change to 
his policy? We asked Mr Ks insurer whether it would have allowed him to reduce his 
mileage at the start of May 2021 and, if yes, whether this would have affected his premium. 
Unfortunately the insurer couldnt give us a definitive answer to these questions.
BISL told us its investigation showed that dropping the mileage from 2999 to 1000 had no 
bearing on the premium offered. On balance, I can accept this. Mr Ks estimated mileage 
was already relatively low at under 3,000 miles per year and he was looking to amend his policy nearly ten months into the policy year. Put another way, Mr K was making a relatively 
small change to one element of his cover very late in the policy year. 
I think there are two other points worth mentioning here:
Ive seen situations where reducing mileage has led to an increase in premium. This 
is because some underwriters consider the insurance risk to be higher when a 
customers annual mileage is very low.
Under BISLs business terms, it would have charged Mr K a £25 policy amendment 
fee for making any changes to his policy. So its possible that changing his mileage 
might have cost Mr K more money than it saved him. 
Given the above, and the lack of a definitive answer from Mr Ks insurer, I dont think I can 
reasonably say that Mr Ks premium would have been reduced following his call to BISL in 
May 2021. 
Having said that, I dont think BISL handled Mr Ks query about his mileage fairly. It should 
have told him he could ask his insurer to reduce his estimated mileage and explain that this 
might incur a fee. While I dont know for certain whether Mr Ks insurer would have reduced 
his premium, I think BISL should compensate Mr K for its poor handling of his call. In the 
circumstances, I consider a fair award to be £100.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr K accepted my provisional decision and my proposed redress. He made three more 
points:
1. BISL told him it would waive fees, so he wouldnt have been charged for changing his 
mileage.
2. Reducing mileage would certainly have reduced his premium because the reason 
for driving less mileage was compliance with the government to stay home.
3. He checked a comparison website which showed a difference in premium between 
2,999 and 1,000 miles.
BISL accepted my provisional decision and agreed to pay my proposed redress. It also told 
us it had taken on board my comments about the service it gave Mr K and has taken action 
to prevent this happening in future.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision, so I see no reason to change it. In reply to Mr 
Ks comments:
BISL told Mr K it would waive its cancellation fee. This is different to an amendment 
fee. So although BISL agreed to waive a cancellation fee this doesnt necessarily 
mean it would have waived any other fees. And given it wouldnt amend the policy, I 
dont think its reasonable to assume it would have waived this fee.
The FCA guidance to insurers in response to the coronavirus pandemic doesnt 
require them to offer refunds to customers in these circumstances.
There are many factors that go into pricing risk. As I said in my provisional decision, Mr K was making a relatively small change to one element of his cover near the end 
of the policy year. So its by no means clear that this change would have reduced his 
premium.
Mr Ks insurer was unable to confirm if it would have agreed to Mr Ks change or how 
this might have affected his premium, so I cant be certain that his premium would 
have been reduced.
I understand Mr Ks point of view, but I dont agree that his premium would certainly have 
been reduced if BISL had referred his mileage query to his insurer. However, as I said in my 
provisional decision, I think BISL acted unfairly by not passing on this query to his insurer. 
Finally, I note the steps BISL has taken in response to my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision. I require BISL Limited to pay Mr K £100 for its poor handling of his query about 
mileage.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman