DRN-3502437
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr M took three loans from Madison as follows:
Loan 1 for £1,000 was taken in October 2017. The loan was due to be repaid in 24 
monthly instalments of about £80. The total amount repayable was around £1,931. 
Loan 2 for £1,322 was taken in August 2018. Mr M used the second loan to settle 
Loan 1 early and took the remaining £500 in cash. The loan was due to be repaid in 
24 monthly instalments of about £105. The total amount repayable was around 
£2,542. I understand the loan was repaid in December 2019.
Loan 3 for was £2,500 was in November 2020. The loan was due to be repaid in 24 
monthly instalments of about £178. The total amount repayable was around £4,285. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into the complaint but didnt think that Madison had been 
wrong to provide Mr M with the loans. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. As 
the complaint has not been settled, it has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Ms complaint.
Madison needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr M irresponsibly. I 
think there are key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Madison carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M 
was in a position to sustainably repay each loan? If not, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown at the time? Did Madison make a fair lending 
decision about each loan?
Did Madison act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in some other way?
Madison was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment or affordability check. 
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Madison had to think about whether 
repaying the loans sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr M. 
Madison had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M 
would be able repay the loans sustainably. There was no set list of checks that Madison had 
to do, but it could consider a number of different things such as the loan amounts, the length 
of the loan terms, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall financial 
circumstances.
In light of this, I think that reasonable and proportionate checks ought generally to have been 
more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, arguments, and information Ive seen about this
matter and what it means for Mr M.
Madison asked Mr M for information about his income and expenditure and it acquired a 
credit report prior to lending each time. Madison thinks its checks were reasonable and 
proportionate, and that the loans were affordable for Mr M.
Ive reviewed the information that Madison gathered when Mr M applied for the first loan. Mr 
M told Madison that he was living with parents, had low outgoings, and intended to use the 
loan to consolidate some of his debts. The credit report indicated that Mr M had outstanding 
credit of around £9,000 which included some unsecured lending, a higher purchase 
agreement and at least 1 credit card. His balance to limit ratio was around 58%. Overall, I 
dont think there was anything on the credit report that ought reasonably to have caused the 
lender any additional concerns about Mr Ms financial position when he applied for the loan. 
Or that should have led Madison to reasonably conclude that his loan application should be 
declined.
I think that it was reasonable for Madison to make its lending decision based on the 
information Mr M had provided and what it found in its reasonable and proportionate checks.  
I dont think greater checks were appropriate at the time. Given what Mr M had told the 
lender about his circumstances, as well as other information gathered, I dont think it 
wouldve been proportionate for Madison to ask Mr M the amount of information that would 
be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first loan. 
Mr M took the second loan around 10 months later. He settled the first loan and took the 
remaining £500 in cash. Ive considered the information gathered by Madison at the time. 
The credit report showed that Mr Ms overall debts had been reduced. But his balance to 
limit ratio had increased to around 97% and there was some adverse information on the 
report. Ive considered whether Madison out reasonably to have looked further info Mr Ms 
financial position, to satisfy itself that he could sustainably repay the second loan  
particularly as he was borrowing again less than halfway through the loan term and his credit 
report showed he had been taking some short-term lending in the months leading up to the 
second loan. 
Mr M has provided his bank statements leading up to the loan.  Mr Ms account showed 
some short-term lending and occasional returned direct debts. But his account largely remained in credit and he appeared to be transferring money in and out of another account 
which may have suggested to a lender that Mr M had other funds available. On balance, 
even if the lender had requested further information such as a bank statement, I dont think it 
ought reasonably to have come to the conclusion that it ought reasonably to decline to lend 
to Mr M for a second time.
The information that Madison gathered when Mr M applied for his third loan November 2020 
suggested that his total outstanding debts had reduced again and his balance to limit ratio 
had improved. But I think the report also ought reasonably to have suggested to Madison 
that Mr M had experienced some difficulties repaying credit. Mr M was returning for a third, 
more substantial loan repayable over an extended period. Overall, I think the lender ought 
reasonably to have gathered more in-depth information before it lent to Mr M for a third time 
to ensure that he could repay the loan sustainably. 
Ive reviewed bank statements that Mr M has provided. I think Madison would most likely be 
aware from the credit report that he had taken additional short-term lending in the weeks 
before his third loan application. But on balance, I dont think Madison ought reasonably to 
have concluded from Mr Ms bank statements that there were signs of significant financial 
distress, or that Mr M was experiencing severe financial difficulties. 
So even if Madison had requested further information such as a bank statement, I cannot 
fairly say that it ought reasonably to have come to the conclusion that lending to Mr M for a 
third time would be unfair or irresponsible. Or that Mr M would most likely, in his 
circumstances, be unable to repay the loan sustainably. 
I appreciate that Mr M might feel his financial situation was in reality worse. But if it was, this 
doesnt appear to be something he shared with Madison at that time, or something that 
proportionate checks would have uncovered.  I am sorry if Mr M has struggled financially, 
but I cant fairly conclude that Madison treated him unfairly or acted irresponsibly when it 
agreed to provide any of the loans. Or that he was treated unfairly in some other way by the 
lender.
I know Mr M will be disappointed by my decision, but Id like to reassure him that I have 
carefully considered all the information that has been provided about this matter. Having 
done so, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint about his loans.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint or make any award against 
Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118118 Money.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2022.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman