DRN-2545209
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited have unfairly reduced the final 
maturity value of their with profits endowment. They feel Aviva mis-led them when it provided 
an estimate of the final maturity value two months before the policy matured. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out a with profits endowment with Aviva in 1995. The policy matured in 
May 2020 and paid a total sum of £92,895.45. However, Mr and Mrs P complained about 
this because they said Aviva sent a letter in March 2020 which said they should receive 
£97,760.68. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said Aviva had only 
provided an estimate of the final maturity value and he didnt think it had mis-led 
Mr and Mrs P. 
Mr and Mrs P disagreed and have asked for an Ombudsmans review. They believe Avivas 
March 2020 letter was mis-leading and that Aviva shouldve based its estimate upon the 
current market conditions instead of conditions in December 2019. They added that a 
reasonable person would expect to receive a figure much closer to the estimate, so theyve 
been treated unfairly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr and Mrs P feel strongly about this complaint and this will come as 
a disappointment to them, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
In March 2020 Aviva sent a letter telling Mr and Mrs P that it couldnt give a final value of 
their policy, but it could give an estimate. It also added that the final bonus isnt guaranteed.  
So, although Aviva quoted £97,760.68  its not obligated to pay this. 
Mr and Mrs P are frustrated by the difference in their maturity value and feel theyve been 
mis-led. Aviva has said that the bonus rate was revised after its estimate was sent to 
Mr and Mrs P in March 2020. And this reduction was in response to market conditions at the 
time. I note Aviva may not have gone into a great amount of detail about all the various 
factors which affected the bonus rate. But this can depend on several things, such as the 
cost of running the fund, as well the need to smooth bonuses from year to year (where 
some of the profits are held back during good years to boost the profits during the bad years 
to avoid any drastic fluctuations). 
The reality is that bonuses are typically arrived at using a variety of factors and formulae that 
are calculated by the with profit fund managers. And they will decide how much of the funds 
profits are paid as a bonus and how much will be kept in reserve to help with smoothing as 
explained above. But I wouldnt have expected Aviva to have disclosed complex or detailed 
breakdowns of its actuarial calculations to Mr and Mrs P, as this is commercially sensitive 
information. 
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that the estimate was based upon market conditions a few 
months before their policy was due to mature. They feel it should be based upon more 
current market information and that they didnt request this estimate. But I dont agree. Aviva 
has said the reason for the difference in the maturity value was because of the bonus review 
(which took place after the letter with the estimate was sent in March 2020) and due to the 
exceptional market conditions that year. Aviva has also confirmed that it took the decision to 
revise the bonus across similar policies to that of Mr and Mrs P. And that it sent an estimate 
to all customers who had the same policy. So, Im satisfied they havent been treated 
unfairly. 
So, Im not going to ask Aviva to take any further action here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman