DRN-3389276
The complaint
Ms J has complained about the service she received when she called U K Insurance Limited 
trading as Green Flag for assistance following a breakdown.
What happened
Ms J broke down on a busy road in July 2021 at around 7pm and she called Green Flag for 
assistance. Ms J told Green Flag she had her baby with her at the time. Ms J said she went 
to a caf nearby to feed her child and her car was in her view during this time. 
Green Flag didnt record Ms Js contact number correctly  and this meant that she didnt 
receive updates and the recovery agent didnt have a correct contact number to call Ms J 
when arranging recovery. Because of Green Flags error, Ms J was still without recovery 
waiting with her child. She said that the battery on her mobile phone was low and she 
became anxious as time went on. After a number of calls between Ms J and Green Flag, Ms 
J made the decision to get a taxi to her destination (Ms J was travelling to stay with relatives) 
and left her car keys in the glove box of her car. This was over three hours after shed first 
called Green Flag for assistance.
Ms Js car was recovered just after 3am. Ms J continued to call and speak with Green Flag 
during the night as she was wanted to know her car had been collected. 
The next day Ms J complained to Green Flag. Green Flag agreed to recover Ms Js car to a 
garage near her home, which was over 100 miles away. This was outside the terms of her 
breakdown policy which was limited to provide garage recovery within 10 miles of the 
breakdown location. 
Green Flag provided Ms J with a hire car for her return journey home. It upheld Ms Js 
complaint and paid her £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Ms J remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. She wants Green Flag to 
provide a refund of all the premiums shes paid for breakdown cover with it since 2014. She 
says it didnt provide the service shed paid for when she needed it. 
Ms J said she received a parking ticket while her car was broken down. 
Our Investigator thought that  taking into account all of the things Green Flag had done  it 
had done enough to put things right. There was no dispute that Green Flag had got things 
wrong in this case. The Investigator asked Ms J to provide proof of the parking ticket she 
received, but Ms J said she cant locate it. 
Ms J didnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Green Flag upheld Ms Js complaint and accepts it is responsible for the poor service she 
received when she called for assistance. The remaining issue to decide is whether Green 
Flags resolution to Ms Js complaint is fair and reasonable.
Ms J says she wants a refund of the premiums she has paid for cover with Green Flag since 
2014. I understand Ms J feels strongly about this point  but I dont think this is a 
proportionate compensation award for what happened. From the information provided by 
Green Flag, Ms J has claimed under her policy during some of the previous years. Some 
years Ms J didnt claim. That can be said for many policyholders with insurance policies. It 
doesnt mean that when things go wrong, previous policies were of no value or benefit. 
I agree with Ms J that the service she received when she called for assistance fell well below 
the standard she should have received. Ive no doubt that this was an anxious time for her, 
being alone with her very young child in the evening. Its clear that Ms J called Green Flag 
for updates over a period of almost three hours until she decided to order a taxi. As Green 
Flag didnt have a correct record of Ms Js number, she didnt receive any text updates, 
including one she should have received ten minutes before the estimated time of arrival of 
the roadside recovery agent. Green Flag say an agent saw Ms Js car but that nobody was 
in it and tried to call the number given  as this wasnt the correct number the recovery didnt 
happen. I note that Green Flag gave feedback to the individual involved in Ms Js case. 
If Green Flag had offered £100 compensation in isolation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused, I dont this it would have been enough to put things right. However, Green Flag also 
agreed to cover the costs for Ms Js car to be recovered to a garage near her home - and 
provided a hire car for Ms Js return journey. I must take these things into account when 
considering whether Green Flag did enough overall to resolve Ms Js complaint as these are 
things that wouldnt otherwise have been available to Ms J under her policy. And as it did 
recover Ms Js car, she did benefit from the policy. So I dont think a refund of the premium is 
due. 
Taking everything into account I find that Green Flag acted in a fair and reasonable way to 
resolve Ms Js complaint. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms J. But this means Im not asking Green Flag to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
think Green Flag did enough to resolve things for Ms J.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman