DRN-3944428
The complaint
Miss P says Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard lent to her irresponsibly and it 
failed to provide her with the necessary support when she experienced financial difficulties. 
What happened
The facts of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will only provide a summary of 
the key points. 
Miss P opened a credit card account with Barclaycard in May 2012, with an initial credit limit 
of £3,600. In August 2013, Barclaycard proactively increased Miss Ps credit limit to
£5,400.
In February 2014, Barclaycard reduced Miss Ps credit limit to £5,100, and in October 2014 
Miss P began to spend beyond her agreed credit limit. In September 2015 Miss P missed 
payments towards her credit card balance. Miss P says she was in financial difficulties from 
August 2014 onwards and the persistent debt on her account meant she had paid more in 
interest and charges than she had to the principal balance. Miss P says Barclaycard didnt 
provide support until 2019, and it shouldve acted sooner given the persistent debt on her 
account. 
In June 2019 Barclaycard and Miss P entered into a reduced repayment plan. Miss P raised 
a complaint as she says she was given incorrect information about the interest that would be 
applied. Barclaycard reviewed Miss Ps concerns and issued a final response letter in 
November 2020 making a goodwill offer and waiving interest charges. 
Miss P remained unhappy with how Barclaycard had treated her and referred a complaint to 
our service. An Investigator reviewed the complaint and found that Barclaycard had lent to 
her responsibly and treated her fairly when she experienced financial difficulty and persistent 
debt. 
Dissatisfied with the outcome reached by the Investigator Miss P asked for her complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman for a final decision to be issued. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss P and her representative have provided detailed submissions to our service, In keeping 
with our role as an informal dispute resolution service and as our rules allow I will focus here 
on the points I find to be material to the outcome of Miss Ps complaint. I understand this 
complaint has been a source of worry for Miss P. But based on the evidence I have seen I 
am not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Miss Ps complaint can broadly be divided into two main parts  her concerns around 
irresponsible lending, and Barclaycards failure to act with forbearance when she 
experienced financial difficulties. I will address each part in turn. 
Irresponsible lending
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Miss Ps complaint. I know this will 
come as a disappointment to Miss P, but having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion 
as our investigator. Ill explain why. 
Barclaycard needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out borrower focused checks which were 
proportionate to make sure Miss P could afford to repay what she was being lent in a 
sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, Miss Ps borrowing history and 
her income and expenditure. But there isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry 
out, it just needs to ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the 
type and amount of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost 
of the credit and the consumers circumstances.
Miss P was provided with the credit card in May 2012 with a limit of £3,600. Barclaycard has 
provided information about the checks it carried out at the time of the application  this 
included obtaining details about Miss Ps circumstances at the time and data from credit 
reference agencies (CRA). Barclaycard says this data didnt reveal anything of concern, and 
having reviewed it, I agree. Miss P was employed with an income of £16,000, and she had 
an existing credit card which she was managing well, with only one missed payment. 
Barclaycard was required to carry out borrower focused checks, and in this instance Miss 
Ps details didnt prompt it to carry out a more in-depth review. This was reasonable given 
the information it had gathered didnt present any obvious areas of concern. 
Miss P says the information gathered by Barclaycard at this stage wasnt tested or explored 
further. Miss P says if it had been Barclaycard wouldve seen that Miss P was regularly in 
her overdraft and her debt was growing. I understand Miss Ps financial situation may not 
have been as simple as the information gathered by Barclaycard suggests. But the key issue 
I must consider is whether Barclaycard gathered enough information, and if that information 
flagged any issues, were these further explored. In Miss Ps case I am satisfied Barclaycard 
had no reason to think Miss P wouldnt be able to sustainably meet the card repayments. 
Miss Ps limit was increased by Barclaycard in August 2013 to £5,100. This was a significant 
increase and while I note Barclaycard has said Miss P could have opted out of the increase, 
it was still Barclaycards responsibility to ensure that the additional lending was sustainably 
affordable for Miss P. The starting point would be to consider Miss Ps ability to manage her 
existing limit. I have looked at Miss Ps credit card statements for the months leading up to 
the increase and can see that she was managing her account well. The balance was within 
the credit limit and she was making the required monthly repayments. Although Miss P had 
used the card for balance transfers, she wasnt using the full limit available to her. There 
were also no signs of Miss P using the credit card account in a way not intended, or her 
struggling financially, in the lead up to the limit increase. For example, I cant see any 
gambling activity or a significant reliance on the account for day-to-day spending. Therefore, 
I do not find that her account management raised concerns that meant an increase shouldnt 
be considered.Barclaycard says it received data from a CRA before it approved this credit limit increase 
which it then matched against its lending criteria. Barclaycard says this data suggests there 
were no known indications Miss P would struggle with her new limit and the likelihood of her 
defaulting on payments was very low. The data isnt particularly detailed, but it didnt present 
any areas of concern. If it had, I wouldve expected Barclaycard to ask further questions. But 
given Miss Ps activity on her account and the CRA data, I think these checks were focused 
and proportionate. So, I am satisfied Barclaycard took adequate steps to check the increase 
was appropriate for Miss P.
Miss P has highlighted that she had a growing reliance on credit over time and I can see her 
overall indebtedness had increased at the time Barclaycard increased its limit. However, the 
key question is whether the increased limit would make meeting the commitments Miss P 
had unsustainable. Given the information available to Barclaycard at the time I dont think it 
was. Overall, it appeared that Miss P was generally managing her finances without showing 
any obvious signs of struggling.  
Miss Ps credit limit was reduced to £5,100 in February 2014. At this stage Miss P had 
begun to exceed the limit on her card and miss payments. This indicated that Miss P was 
beginning to struggle with maintaining her repayments, and Barclaycard took pro-active 
steps here to limit the impact of this by reducing the balance. 
Financial hardship and persistent debt
In June 2014 Miss P reached out to Barclaycard to explain her employment contract had 
ended. Miss P asked what her options were in relation to her card repayments. Barclaycard 
responded acknowledging her situation and explained Miss P could contact its customer 
guidance unit who would be able to discuss Miss Ps options. I cant see that Miss P 
contacted this team and at this stage she was still managing to meet the minimum 
repayments on the card. However, I can see by October 2014 Miss P was exceeding her 
limit regularly and Barclaycard would suspend use of the card until the account was brought 
back in order. This is the type of action lenders were expected to take at the time as it limited 
excessive spending. 
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) persistent debt rules came into effect in September 
2018 and are set out on the FCA handbook, CONC 6.7.27. They say (in summary) that firms 
such as Barclaycard must look at the accounts of borrowers to ensure theyre reducing their 
debts and therefore, not paying too much interest. And so  where a borrower is paying 
more in interest and fees than they are paying towards reducing the amount of the debt, then 
a repayment plan should be put in place to deal with this. And, where this cant be agreed, 
the card may be suspended  to stop customers from increasing their debts further. The 
intention of the rules is to ensure that customers are protected from paying too much interest 
 and in some cases, never actually clearing the principal amount. 
Looking at the account statements it is clear Miss Ps account was in persistent debt when 
this guidance came into effect. Barclaycard has provided evidence to show it communicated 
clearly with Miss P about her account being in persistent debt, and it took steps to provide 
her with tailored support. This included payment plans, the removal or reduction of interest 
charges and regular communication about the status of Miss Ps account.
In June 2019 Barclaycard and Miss P entered into a reduced repayment plan. Miss P says 
she was informed no interest would be applied to her account whilst she was in the 
repayment plan, yet interest had been applied for October 2019. Barclaycard explained that 
interest was correctly applied, but in February 2020 Barclaycard changed its process which 
meant interest would be removed from the plan. Barclaycard apologised for any confusion 
and paid Miss P £25 as a gesture of goodwill. It also removed interest that as applied to Miss Ps account from July 2019 to January 2020. It also refunded the interest applied in October 
2020. I think Barclaycard acted fairly here and took adequate steps to address the confusion 
Miss P experienced. So I wouldnt expect it to take any further action here.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclaycard followed the relevant guidance for customers in financial 
hardship and persistent debt. I understand Miss Ps financial situation was deteriorating over 
time, but the steps taken by Barclaycard were reasonable and in keeping with industry 
guidance. So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Barclaycard has 
treated Miss P unfairly and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Miss P and her representative as they clearly feel strongly about the 
matter. But I hope theyll understand the reasons for my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman