DRN-4098100
The complaint
Mr B complains Nationwide Building Society (NBS) blocked and later closed his account 
once it had spoken to him about a payment hed made. 
What happened
On 9 September 2022, Mr B made a payment of 1pence with the reference Cuba. Mr B 
says this was a tester payment before he sent a larger payment to a humanitarian 
organisation based in Belgium.  
NBS restricted Mr Bs account and called him a few days later after the 1pence payment. 
NBS say this was to carry out Enhanced Due Diligence. Mr B says he was told this call was 
a routine account review, but he was asked specific questions about the transaction. Mr B 
says he told NBSs agent he always made tester payments in this way and the call was 
courteous.  
Two days later, on 16 September 2022, NBS emailed Mr B and informed him it had closed 
his account after its review. NBS also told Mr B he could take his money out in branch after 
three days. 
 
Mr B says this led to him having to make up payment shortfalls on direct debit payments that 
were due and losing out on a £175 incentive from the bank he was switching to. He adds the 
situation caused him significant distress for having to change his regular payments, and that 
one payment bounced.
Unhappy Mr B complained. NBS sent Mr B a final response and didnt uphold his complaint. 
In summary, some of the key points it made were: 
- NBS review team called Mr B on 14 September 2022 and asked appropriate 
authentication questions
- The criteria for account reviews are business sensitive and cannot be disclosed  
- NBS sent an email on 16 September 2022 confirming the closure of the account
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint, and they didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. In summary, the key findings they made were: 
- NBS were acting in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when restricting and 
closing Mr Bs account in the way it did
- The account was blocked when Mr B was moving his account and looking to use the 
Current Account Switching Service (CASS). And had this gone through he wouldve 
received £175 joining bonus with his new bank. But as the account was blocked by 
NBS, this switch couldnt be completed, and the bonus wasnt paid  
- NBS discussed Mr Bs account with him in line with section 26 of its terms and 
conditions. NBS werent satisfied with the responses it received. So NBS decided to 
end its relationship with Mr B, which is permitted under section 78 of the terms
- As NBS acted in line with its terms and conditions, which Mr B had agreed with when 
opening the account, it cant be held responsible for any loss or inconvenience he 
suffered 
Mr B didnt agree with what our Investigator said. He says that NBS are upholding and acting 
on US sanctions, and embargos its placed upon Cuba. Mr B adds that this is a direct 
violation of several UK and EU laws and regulations. 
Mr B has also pointed to a Parliament order and the UK Protection of Trading Interests Act 
1980. Mr B says that based on this NBS has broken UK and EU laws by putting Cuba on its 
sanction list. He also questions why a payment made to a Belgium financial institution was 
reviewed in this way. 
Our Investigator considered what Mr B said. They made several points in response. Some of 
the key ones they made were: 
- The reasons Mr Bs account was restricted was that NBS were investigating whether 
the transaction could breach any applicable sanctions. No finding has been made to 
say it breached US sanctions
- The subsequent closure of the account was triggered by Mr Bs refusal to answer 
questions he was asked when NBS called him to discuss the transfer 
- A financial business must accept any consequence of breaching sanctions, so it 
would be inappropriate for our service to say they should or shouldnt review a 
transaction to ensure theyre being complaint with the law. This service can look at 
how the review is conducted to ensure NBS acted reasonably 
- As is his right, Mr B decided not to answer NBS questions. But because of this NBS 
was entitled to inhibit the account until which time it could be sure carrying out Mr Bs 
instructions wouldnt cause it to carry out a prohibited act
- There are numerous websites devoted to reducing or eliminating the impact of US 
sanctions on Cuba. Mr Bs responses appear similar to instructions on those 
websites, and therein appear to want to provoke a reaction 
Mr B did not agree and asked for someone else to determine his complaint. It follows that 
the complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Financial businesses, like NBS, in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions 
in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out 
ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means they need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
NBS called Mr B after it restricted his account to carry out a review. This involved asking him about his 1p payment to a Belgian organisation with the reference Cuba. NBS internal 
notes show Mr B said he authorised the payment, knew about it, and did not want to clarify 
why he sent it. As Mr B hasnt contested that he declined to answer these questions, Im 
satisfied that is what happened. 
NBS must comply with wide ranging legal and regulatory obligations ranging from those to 
prevent financial crime and international sanctions. Mr B argues that as a UK financial 
institution, NBS has no legal obligation to adhere to a US sanction. 
But that isnt the question I must address here. Given the nature of the transaction, NBS 
needed to ask Mr B questions as part of its due diligence to understand if the payment did in 
fact engage any sanctions it might need to consider. But by failing to answer its question 
about the intended purpose, NBS couldnt do this. 
Section 28 of NBS account terms and conditions says: 
From time to time, we may ask you to provide us with information to help us meet our 
anti-money laundering, financial crime, sanctions and other legal and regulatory 
requirements. You must promptly provide any information requested. If you fail to provide 
this information when asked to, this may result in us delaying or refusing to process your 
payments or blocking all access to your account. We will not be responsible for any losses 
which may result
Mr B agreed to these terms when he opened the account. And Ive already said that Mr Bs 
refusal to answer NBS questions meant it couldnt carry out the checks it needed to make 
sure it wasnt contravening any of its obligations. 
The terms of the account also allow NBS to close an account with less than two months 
notice when it can reasonably consider it may be exposed to action from any government, 
Regulator, or law enforcement agency. 
As NBS werent able to do this, I dont think its done anything wrong by closing the account 
in the way it has. Mr B may argue sanctions related to Cuba shouldnt even be a 
consideration for NBS. But international sanctions are complex and its isnt always clear if 
they are engaged without understanding the purpose and destination of a transaction that 
requires such consideration. 
Mr B may or may not be involved with raising awareness about Cuban restrictions, but that 
isnt something I think is significantly material to my decision. My role here is to decide 
complaints on their individual merits, and importantly whether I think NBS has done anything 
wrong by restricting and closing Mr Bs account. For the reasons above, Im persuaded it 
hasnt done anything wrong. 
Mr B says this matter has caused him financial loss, trouble and upset. I do accept NBS 
actions wouldve caused him difficulty. And I have no reason to question that he missed out 
on a £175 bonus through not being able to use the CASS service due to NBS restricting and 
closing his account. 
But having looked at whats happened in this particular case, I can see no basis on which I 
might make an award against NBS given that I dont think its done anything improper. So 
Im not going to ask NBS to compensate Mr B for any financial loss, trouble, and upset this 
may have caused.My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman