DRN-2977042
The complaint
 This complaint is about information Ms B was given by Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax when she enquired about taking over her late husbands mortgage.  
What happened
 By way of a provisional decision issued on 22 July 2021, I set out, with reasons, the basis 
on which I intended to determine the complaint. The following is an extract from that 
provisional decision.
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them in 
detail here. Instead Ill give a brief summary, rounding the figures involved if need be, 
and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it 
wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the 
outcome of the complaint. 
Ms B was widowed in 2016; she was executor of her late husbands estate and sole 
beneficiary of his will. Ms Bs husband had held a mortgage with Halifax, and Ms B 
wanted to take it over in her own name. When she asked about this at her local 
branch in early 2017, she was told (wrongly, as it was later established) that shed 
need to save about £10,000 as a deposit. 
It was not until early 2020, when Ms B spoke to her own bank, that she found out she 
didnt need a deposit, but could simply apply for a mortgage in her own name. She 
did so successfully and repaid the Halifax mortgage. Ms B then complained about the 
advice shed been given in 2017. She said that during the intervening three years, 
shed made all the mortgage payments to Halifax (including repaying some arrears) 
and struggled to save about £3,000 towards a deposit that she hadnt actually 
needed.
Halifax apologised and paid Ms B £500; Ms B rejected this and complained to us.  
Our investigator thought Halifax had made a fair offer to resolve the complaint; Ms B 
has asked for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on 
what we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. 
Thats broadly the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Ms B initially complained in her own right; when we received the complaint, we told 
her the party eligible to complain wasnt her personally but her late husbands estate 
with her as its representative. Having considered everything that both parties have 
said and provided, I think we mis-directed Ms B at the outset, for which I apologise 
on behalf of the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
This complaint is not about Halifaxs operation of her late husbands mortgage, but 
about how it handled her as a potential customer asking to take it over in her own 
name. That makes Ms B the party eligible to complain in her own right.
Thats a change of position from the opinion we have expressed previously, so Im 
setting out my opinion, and the reasons for it, in this provisional decision. That way, 
both parties will be able to comment before it is finalised.
In one sense, the complaint is relatively straightforward; I dont have to decide fault. 
Although theres no contemporaneous evidence, Halifax has accepted Ms Bs 
recollections about what she was told in 2017, and apologised for misleading her. Its 
also offered compensation for the trouble and upset it caused for Ms B. On that latter 
point, Ive thought carefully about the amount of compensation Halifax offered Ms B, 
and on balance, I think it was about right in the wider circumstances. If that was all 
there was for me to consider, I could conclude my decision here. But I also have to 
think about whether Ms B suffered financially as a result of Halifaxs mis-direction.
I dont consider that accruing savings for a purpose that was later revealed to be 
unnecessary constitutes a loss. Even after Ms B became aware she didnt need a 
10% deposit, she still had those savings, and was free to use them as she wished. 
The position regarding mortgage payments is less clear-cut. Thats because Ms Bs 
circumstances were such that she was always going to have to make mortgage 
payments, either on a mortgage of her own or on the estates mortgage in her 
capacity as executor. But if the interest rate Ms B secured for her mortgage is lower 
than the rate that applied on the Halifax mortgage, then she is worse off financially 
because of Halifaxs mis-direction in 2017.
Id ask Ms B, as part of her response to this provisional decision, to provide details of 
the interest rate she pays on her new mortgage, and the exact date it began. Id ask 
Halifax, as part of its response, to verify the rate(s) that applied on the estate 
mortgage between the beginning of 2017 when Ms B was given the wrong 
information and the date the mortgage was repaid in 2020. 
If the information I receive reveals that Ms B paid more interest to Halifax than she 
could have done on her own mortgage (discounting the impact of any increased 
borrowing if applicable) if it had started sooner, then Halifax should reimburse Ms B 
the difference. The relevant period starts from when she could have taken out her 
own mortgage and ends when she did. Allowing a representative amount of time for 
a mortgage application to be processed, accepted, offered and completed if Halifax 
had informed Ms B correctly, I propose using a notional start date for her own 
mortgage of 1 April 2017.
Im aware that I cant be sure that the rate Ms B secured in 2020 is necessarily the 
rate she could have got in 2017. But its unlikely that any variation would be 
substantial or significant, such that it introduces unfairness to what Im proposing.
Based on the responses I received from both parties to the provisional decision, our 
investigator subsequently contacted both parties on 6 August 2021 to inform of them of the 
redress I was intending awarding Ms B. This is what she told them, at my direction:
The business has confirmed that the balance on 1 April 2017 was £100,093.78, and 
£13,580.72 of interest was charged on that debt between 1 April 2017 and 
2 September 2020 when the mortgage was repaid. Meanwhile, Miss B provided 
evidence that the mortgage she took was on 1.66% fixed for five years. The 
ombudsman has already said that he considers it fair to work on the premise that Miss B would have secured the same rate if shed taken the mortgage on 
1 April 2017.
There are 1251 days between 1 April 2017 and 2 September 2020; 1251 days 
interest on £100,093.78 at 1.66% adds up to £5,694.81. That means Miss Bs loss as 
a result of being misled is £13,580.72 less £5,694.81, which is £7,885.91. That loss 
has been incurred incrementally with each monthly payment Miss B paid that was 
higher than it could have been. Strictly speaking, Miss B is also due interest on each 
incremental part of the loss at 8% simple, from the date each payment was made up 
to 2 September 2020. But rather than requiring the business to carry out those 
calculations, the ombudsman considers it fair and proportionate that the business 
instead pays Miss B a further £250 compensation.
Both parties were then given until 13 August 2021 to make any final comments. Neither has 
made any further substantive comment.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been given no reason to depart from my provisional decision or to modify the proposed 
redress, so I dont.    
My final decision
 My final decision is that I order Bank of Scotland plc to pay Ms B the following amounts:
£7,885.91 to offset extra interest she paid because of wrong information given by Halifax 
regarding her late husbands mortgage; and
£750 comprising the original offer of £500 that Ms B rejected, plus a further £250.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman