DRN-4110456
The complaint
Mr D complains that Specialist Motor Finance Limited trading as Specialist Motor Finance 
irresponsibly granted him a hire purchase agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In May 2021, Mr D acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from SMFL. 
Mr D was required to make 59 monthly repayments of around £227 followed by a final 
repayment of around £237. The total repayable under the agreement was around £13,624.
Mr D says that SMFL didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. SMFL hasnt provided evidence of the 
checks that were carried out before the agreement was provided. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought SMFL didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr D didnt agree. He said that our investigator accepted that adequate checks werent 
carried out before the lending, and he disagreed that had these happened it would have 
shown the lending was affordable. He said that although he said he was working full time at 
the time of his application he was working part time. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SMFL will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
As I havent seen evidence of the checks undertaken before the lending was provided, I 
cannot say whether the checks were adequate or not. I have therefore looked at the 
evidence provided to see whether I think adequate checks undertaken at the time would 
have suggested the lending was affordable.
I have looked at the copy of Mr Ds credit file. While this does show that Mr D had 
experienced some historic financial issues and had missed a few payments in the months 
leading up to the agreement, in general I do not find the report shows he was in financial 
difficulty at the time or that this alone meant the lending shouldnt have bene provided. 
However, noting there was some adverse information recorded, I think it would have been 
reasonable to have verified Mr Ds income and got a clear understanding of his expenses to 
ensure that the lending was affordable
I do not think that SMFL was required to request copies of Mr Ds bank statements but in the 
absence of any other evidence I have relied on these as an indication of what SMFL would 
likely have identified and Mr D would likely have disclosed had adequate checks been 
undertaken.
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements prior to the application. These show that 
Mr Ds income consisted of around £896 a month salary plus benefits. This gave Mr D a total 
monthly income of around £1,600. Mr Ds regular committed monthly expenditure at the time 
was around £1,000. In calculating this figure, Ive included his other credit commitments and 
regular expenses noted in his bank statements as well as the amounts Mr D said he was 
paying for rent and utilities. Additionally, he needed to pay for food, transport and other living 
expenses but considering the repayments required under the agreement and taking his 
income and expenses into account, I do not find I can say that SMFL should have found the 
agreement wasnt affordable for Mr D. For this reason, Im not persuaded that SMFL acted 
unfairly in approving the finance. 
Mr D has also said that the fees and charges on the agreement were extortionate. I have 
looked at the agreement that Mr D signed and can see this clearly set out the interest rate 
and other charges. Mr Ds required repayments were explained and so I find he had the 
information he needed to make an informed decision. The agreement also contained 
information about Mr D's withdrawal rights. Given this I do not find I can say that SMFL did 
anything wrong by applying the charges in line with the agreement.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman