DRN-2758340
The complaint
Mrs R says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) with a store card. To be
clear, this decision is about the Debenhams card she took out in March 2002, with PPI being
added to the account in December 2003.
A company called AXA France IARD is now responsible for complaints about these sales. Ill
therefore refer mainly to AXA throughout this final decision.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision (PD) about this case in March 2021, comprehensively setting 
out why I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld.  And I asked both parties to provide any 
further submissions or information to me within one month. That PD should be read in 
conjunction with this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent received any replies from either party. Im therefore now able to make a final 
decision - and Im not upholding the complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs R.
In my PD I said whilst I didnt doubt that Mrs Rs recollections of events were honest, these 
events are from a considerable time ago. AXA says its records indicate the policy was sold 
over the telephone after the store card had already been taken out, a year and a half or so 
earlier. 
The AXA description of how this sale took place is in accordance with my understanding of 
how many consumers bought this type of PPI with store cards at around that time. And as I 
explained in my PD, from the documentation weve previously seen from similar sales, we 
think the telephone guidance from the sale date would have instructed the call-handler to 
explain the PPI was optional and get the consumers permission before adding any PPI 
policy. I think its more likely that Mrs R agreed to buy the PPI during that call. 
I also think the charges for the PPI would have appeared on Mrs Rs monthly statements 
and I can see from her account that she held the PPI for a while - until 2014. So, I think if 
she hadnt ever agreed to the PPI, she would have most likely wanted to know what the 
charges were for, particularly as shed been operating the card for quite a few months 
originally without any PPI.
These things, taken together, make me think its more likely Mrs R agreed to buy the PPI
policy with her store card back in 2003 and Ive previously explained why I think the policy 
would have been of use to her. Mrs R was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of 
the major exclusions we tended to see in some of these policies. If shed become unable to 
work or lost her job, the PPI would have paid off 15% of her outstanding store card balance 
each month until she returned to work or until all the balance was returned to zero. These 
benefits would have been in addition to any other means Mrs R had in place at the time.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint. And I dont require AXA France IARD to pay any 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman