DRN-2750729
The complaint
Mr K complains about the information Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track 
Reclaim(FTR) gave him when he signed up to use its services. He says he wouldnt have 
instructed FTR to represent him in his payment protection insurance (PPI) claims if it had 
provided clearer information.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr K instructed FTR to represent him in claims for mis-sold PPI against 
various lenders. Following this, Mr K received settlements from two lenders and FTR 
invoiced him for its success fees.
Mr K raised a complaint with FTR. He didnt think FTR had given him clear information about 
its services before hed agreed for it to represent him. He said hed mainly purchased PPI in 
the late 1980s and 1990s. FTR hadnt made him aware that he would have needed to 
provide paperwork for claims about PPI sold many years ago to be successful. Mr K said 
FTRs non-disclosure in its advertisement led him to use its services rather than making a 
claim directly with his own bank which may well have been more successful. He also felt 
FTR had been heavy handed when pursuing him for its fee.
FTR said that, for the majority of claims, paperwork and proof of PPI is not required, but 
there are instances when it is. Should a lender provide a no PPI response, or a consumer 
believes there is more PPI than has been identified, FTR may request documentary 
evidence showing the consumer paid PPI with that lender. FTR said this was made clear in 
the terms and conditions Mr K had agreed to. 
FTR said its fee becomes payable following an offer from a lender, and its collection process 
starts. This consists of calls, texts, emails and letters which become more direct in tone as 
the collections process is exhausted. It didnt agree that FTR employs heavy handed tactics.
Mr K remained unhappy, so he asked our service to look into his complaint. Our investigator 
looked into Mr Ks concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. She thought 
FTR had provided clear information in its terms and conditions and was entitled to its fee.
Mr K disagreed with our investigators opinion. He believed hed been scammed by FTR and 
said hed read reviews online which showed many other customers felt the same way. So, 
Mr Ks complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr K. But having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant industry rules require FTR to communicate with its customers in a way that is 
fair, clear and not misleading.
Its not disputed that Mr K gave FTR authority to pursue PPI claims on his behalf. This 
included claims against the two lenders who have paid Mr K settlements for mis-sold PPI. In 
doing so, Mr K appears to have digitally signed letters of authority agreeing to FTRs terms 
and conditions. 
Mr K says his main concern is that FTR didnt make it clear that someone claiming about PPI 
purchased over six or ten years ago would require relevant paperwork to be successful.
FTRs terms and conditions say: FTR will use reasonable endeavours to request the 
Company confirm whether PPI existed on any account(s) which You held with them, by 
making a Pre-submission or DSAR (data subject access request). So, I think FTR let Mr K 
know that it would initially request information from the lenders to determine if PPI existed on 
the accounts he wanted to complain about. 
I can see from FTRs notes that several lenders told it they were unable to locate PPI for    
Mr K. Whether or not further information is needed to locate PPI usually depends on what 
information the lender already holds. While the amount of time thats passed since the PPI 
was sold can have a bearing on this, lenders are often able to find a record of PPI sold many 
years ago, without paperwork being provided. So, I dont think FTR would have been in a 
position to tell Mr K if his PPI claims were likely to be successful before it had contacted the 
lenders.
FTRs terms and conditions also say: If further information is required from You prior to 
submitting a Claim(s), FTR will endeavour to contact You and You agree to provide 
reasonable assistance and information to allow Us to submit a Claim(s) on Your behalf 
And go on to say: You must provide all documents which you may have in your possession 
from the Lender, Broker or Insurer which may assist in the preparation of the claim... So, I 
think FTR also made Mr K aware that further information might be needed from him for a 
claim to be progressed. 
Mr K says he wouldnt have instructed FTR to act on his behalf at all if hed known hed only 
receive settlements from his own bank. He says hed already been told by this banking 
group that he would be able to make a PPI claim before he engaged FTRs services. 
FTRs terms and conditions also say: you agree to FTR dealing exclusively with Your 
Claim(s) and acknowledge that You could complain directly to the Company at no cost. So, 
I think FTR made it clear to Mr K that he could pursue claims directly, and hes 
acknowledged that he gave FTR authority to deal with these particular claims.
The terms and conditions also say: No fees will be charged for you in respect of an 
unsuccessful claim. Where a claim is successful, FTR will charge a contingency fee 
representing no more than 24% inc. VAT in respect of any redress / compensation / goodwill 
payment recovered on your behalf. So, I think FTR also made it clear that it operates on a 
no win, no fee basis and Mr K would be charged a fee for any successful PPI claims it had 
represented him in. It follows, that I believe FTR is entitled to the fees its charged Mr K for 
his successful PPI claims.
Mr K has also made various comments about reviews hes read about FTR online. But in 
deciding on this complaint, I can only consider FTRs actions in relation to Mr K. And having 
considered everything, I think FTR has acted fairly and reasonably. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman