DRN-4183445
The complaint
Mr A complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) wont refund the money he lost in a 
scam.
What happened
Mr A is represented in this case but for ease Ill refer to Mr A throughout this decision.
Mr A says that he met someone on a social media platform. Ill refer to this person as O in 
my decision. Mr A and O started to exchange messages and built up a friendship before O 
introduced the idea of Mr A investing in cryprocurrency. O asked Mr A to open wallets at 
cryptocurrency exchanges and in April 2022 Mr A followed Os instructions to invest funds 
from an account with another bank. Mr A was able to see that he was making a profit so 
continued to invest.
Later in April 2022 Mr A applied to withdraw his funds from the investment but was told he 
needed to pay tax. Initially Mr A was asked to pay US tax and then O said that as Mr A was 
a UK citizen, he needed to pay UK tax. Once hed made the tax payments Mr A was advised 
of a refundable late payment fee of 22% of the amount in the account. He was told this figure 
would go up by 2% each day until it was paid. From 5 May 2022 Mr A started to make 
payments from his account with Starling. Each time he made a payment though he was told 
of further charges he would need to make before he could withdraw his profit. 
I have set out the transactions Mr A made from his Starling account:
Date Amount Payee Payment method Payment review
(see below)?
05/05/22 £1,160 1 Faster payment Yes
05/05/22 £2,010 1 Faster payment Yes
13/5/22 £250 2 Mastercard N/a
14/05/22 £850 2 Mastercard N/a
15/05/22 £450 1 Faster payment Yes
15/05/22 £1,454.35 3 Mastercard N/a
16/05/22 £1,009 1 Faster payment No
16/05/22 £1,500 1 Faster payment Yes
19/05/22 £300 1 Faster payment No
28/05/22 £50 1 Faster payment No
30/05/22 £11 1 Faster payment No
30/05/22 £11 1 Faster payment No
30/05/22 £4 1 Faster payment No
30/05/22 £6 1 Faster payment No
Payees one and two were different cryptocurrency exchanges. Payee three was an 
electronic money institution, so Mr A was transferring funds to his own account.
Mr A realised he was the victim of a scam when he wasnt able to withdraw his funds. He 
reported what had happened to Starling on 1 June 2023. 
Starling considered Mr As claim but didnt agree to refund any of his loss. In summary, it 
said:
- Mr A authorised the payments and Starlings primary obligation was to complete 
them. 
- It provided a scam warning when the card payments were made and Mastercard 
rules dont allow for a chargeback in these circumstances. 
- The scam happened when Mr A moved funds from his own cryptocurrency accounts, 
so Starling isnt responsible. The faster payments were to legitimate cryptocurrency 
exchanges. 
- The faster payments werent deemed to be suspicious, and Mr A was provided with a 
new payee warning and further warnings after hed been asked some questions 
about the payments. 
- Mr A hasnt made Starling aware of any vulnerabilities.
- Mr A didnt complete appropriate checks before making the payments. 
Mr A was unhappy with Starlings response. He said the payments were unusual and should 
have been flagged by Starling. Mr A also said he is taking numerous medications to treat 
conditions relating to his mental and physical health and that Starling failed to recognise his 
vulnerabilities and protect him accordingly. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
- Although Mr A hadnt used his account prior to the scam payments, before each 
transaction Mr A credited his account. This pattern isnt unusual. 
- The payments were made to legitimate companies.
- Starling has provided this service with chat transcripts in respect of some of the 
payments when the purpose of the payment was discussed. 
- Any further intervention by Starling wouldnt have prevented Mr A from making 
further payments. By the time Mr A made the payments from his Starling account 
hed been unsuccessful in withdrawing his funds. Mr A also told O he was lying, and 
he wouldnt pay more, but continued to make payments. 
- There was nothing Starling could do to recover Mr As funds as they went to his own 
account and chargeback wasnt possible. 
- Starling hadnt been made aware of Mr As vulnerabilities so had no reason to 
provide additional support.
Mr A didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for a final decision, so his complaint 
has been passed to me to consider. In summary, he said:
- Greater weight should have been given to Mr As circumstances at the time and 
Starling missed an opportunity to establish whether he was vulnerable. Starling 
intervened but didnt ask anything about Mr As vulnerability or put in place any additional measures.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) 
doesnt apply in this case because it only applies to certain payments to another person and 
Mr A transferred funds to his own accounts. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that Starling is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. Its not disputed that Mr A made and authorised these 
payments, although I accept that when he did so he didnt think his funds were at risk.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Starling should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This 
is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
I need to decide whether Starling acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr A when 
he authorised payments from his account or whether it could and should have done more 
before processing them. 
Mr A opened his Starling account in April 2020 and the last transaction on the account 
before the scam payments was a debit card payment of under £10 in March 2021, after 
which the balance of the account was 9p. So Mr As account hadnt been used for over a 
year when he started to credit the account and make payments in respect of cryptocurrency. 
When Mr A made this first payment, Starling completed a payment review in which it asked 
Mr A some on screen questions and provided warnings. I have set out below some of what 
appeared on the screen and Mr As responses to the questions posed:
Are you being told to make this payment?
Anyone telling you what buttons to click, or asking you to read the text on this screen out 
loud is a criminal. You must not make the payment if you are being told how to answer the 
questions or explain the payment.
Please tell us what this payment is for 
Investment
What are you investing in?
My own savings account
Have you previously accessed the account you are making a payment to?Yes
When did you open the account youre paying?
More than one month ago
Mr A was then provided with a warning targeted at safe account scams. 
Given the amount Mr A was transferring I consider that Starling went far enough in its 
dynamic questions and warning. I wouldnt normally expect a bank to intervene in payments 
of this value (unless there was something very obviously amiss). Mr A confirmed funds were 
going to his own account which had been open for over a month and which he had access to 
 so there was nothing concerning about the answers he gave. If, for example, the account 
was newly opened, I consider Starling ought reasonably to have had more concerns, but this 
wasnt the case. Starling had also made it clear that if anyone was telling Mr A what to say 
then he was being scammed. 
Given that Mr A said he was investing, I consider that Starling ought reasonably to have 
provided him with a warning tailored to investment scams. Im not persuaded an on-screen 
warning of this nature would have made a difference in this case and prevented Mr A from 
making further payments though. Mr A has said that he built up a relationship with O and its 
clear from the messages provided that Mr A has followed the instructions he was given in 
making the payments. Even when he had doubts, and the reasons for the payments became 
less and less believable, he continued to make them. So, I consider it to be unlikely that an 
on screen warning, like the safe account warning Starling provided him with but tailored to 
investment scams, would have been enough to have broken the spell and prevented any 
further payments from being made. 
By the time Mr A made payments from his Starling account he had already transferred over 
£4,500 from an account with another bank, so may have received scam warnings from this 
bank too. As I dont know if this is the case, I havent relied on this point in reaching my 
decision. 
I also dont consider Starling needed to do anything more when any of the subsequent 
payments were made. Starling completed payment reviews and asked questions similar to 
those asked in respect of the first payment, but didnt always go into as much detail when 
most of the faster payments were made. With the exception of a transfer to an account of Mr 
As with an EMI, the faster payments were also all to the same recipient as the first payment 
that Starling had asked questions about. They were not at a level that Id expect Starling to 
be concerned about and didnt fit a common pattern of scam payments. The payments were 
spread over a period of three and a half weeks and didnt increase in value as time went on 
or follow a common scam pattern. 
The card payments were low value transactions to a legitimate exchange so, again, I dont 
consider Starling ought to have considered them to be unusual enough to intervene. No 
chargeback rights apply to the card payments either. In respect of the payments to a 
cryptocurrency exchange Mr A received the service he paid for, and Mr A also paid his own 
account with an EMI.
Mr A has referred to various factors that he says made him more vulnerable to a scam of this 
nature. I havent seen anything to suggest Starling was made aware of any of these 
vulnerabilities though. I dont consider that Starling ought reasonably to have asked Mr A 
each time he made a payment whether he might be vulnerable, and I cant see that there 
was anything in the responses he gave to Starlings questions that ought reasonably to have 
led Starling to think he might need any additional support.
I appreciate that overall Mr A has lost a lot of money, but I cant reasonably conclude that 
Starling ought to have done anything more. My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman