DRN-3955759
The complaint
Mr C complaints about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his car 
insurance claim.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here. But Id like to assure Mr C and LV that Ive carefully considered all the 
evidence and information we have on this case. 
Mr C has a car insurance policy underwritten by LV. He made a claim after his car was 
damaged in an accident caused by a third party driver, who then failed to stop and fled the 
scene.
In short, LV decided the car was a total loss. They paid off the finance company with which 
Mr C had an agreement to purchase the car, giving them just over £8,000. And then paid 
Mr C the remaining value of the car, which came to around £470 after the £500 excess had 
been applied.
LV then sold the car for salvage. Mr C says hes aware the car has been repaired and is 
back on the road.
Mr C wasnt happy with this. He thought the car shouldnt have been written off. He says the 
repairs were over-costed and the car under-valued. 
He says hed paid around £10,000 on the finance before the accident  and paid to keep he 
car in good condition. And so, the £470 payment doesnt seem fair.
He was unhappy that LV had paid the finance company first, rather than paying him and 
letting him settle the finance. And he says he should have been given the opportunity to 
keep the car and get it repaired himself (with LV deducting from the settlement amount the 
price they could have got for salvage).
Mr C thought he shouldnt have to pay the excess because the accident was entirely the 
third partys fault. He was unhappy that his car insurance premiums had gone up when the 
accident wasnt his fault. And he had to wait five days before he got the courtesy car he was 
entitled to under the terms of the policy.
Mr C complained to LV. They admitted Mr C should have had a courtesy car sooner and 
paid him £20 per day in compensation for the period when he was without a car.
They also said they would refund the £500 excess when the third party had been traced and 
admitted liability.
However, they maintained that the claim had been handled correctly, particularly in terms of 
the payments made to the finance company and to Mr C, and the disposal of the car.
Mr C wasnt happy with LVs response, so he brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think LV had done anything wrong.
Mr C disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy for Mr C. As he rightly says, hes been put in the position hes in 
through no fault of his own. And I can see why hes frustrated by the way things have worked 
out as a result of the accident, for which he was entirely blameless. 
However, Im not going to uphold this complaint. I know that will disappoint Mr C, but Ill 
explain why Ive come to that conclusion.
The car valuation
I know there was a dispute initially between Mr C and the engineer appointed to inspect the 
vehicle by LV about the valuation of the car. But Mr C provided evidence which made the 
engineer change his mind and he increased the valuation from £6,200 to almost £9,200. 
Mr C was happy to agree to the new valuation at the time. 
The repair estimate
The necessary repairs to the car were estimated at around £12,000. I know Mr C feels these 
costs were exaggerated, but its not unreasonable for LV to use the figure provided by a 
qualified engineer. 
Its usual for insurers to consider cars a total loss if the repair cost is more than 60%-70% of 
the market value of the car in question. This accounts for the costs they could recover by 
selling the car for salvage.
In this case then, the repair cost would have to have been less than around £6,000 to make 
repairs economical. Thats a long way from the £12,000 or so estimated by the engineer. 
Even if they had made some marginal errors in estimating the costs, that would not have 
made up the significant difference between £12,000 and £6,000.
Im satisfied then that LVs decision to consider the car a total loss was fair and reasonable.
The payment to the finance company
LV were then obliged to pay off the amount owed by Mr C to the finance company. As Mr C 
himself has said, he would own the car when all the finance had been paid off. Up until that 
point, he didnt own he car, the finance company did. 
Mr Cs policy terms are also absolutely clear about what will happen when LV settle claims 
where there has been a total loss. They say: 
If your car belongs to someone else, or is under a hire purchase or leasing 
agreement, we will pay the legal owner.
Mr C is unhappy that after paying the finance re-payments for a period of time, the 
settlement figure quoted by the finance company was almost the full value of the car at the 
time of the accident. Mr C would be entitled to make a complaint about the finance company if he believes theyve 
treated him unfairly but, of course, that would be a separate matter and nothing to do with 
LV. LV were entitled to believe the finance company when they reported the amount still 
owing on the agreement.
The salvage 
Having paid off the finance company and Mr C, LV effectively owned the car. They could get 
back some of the cost of settling the claim by selling the car for salvage, for around £3,300.
In cases where a policyholder asks to take their car back  with the salvage price being 
deducted from the settlement amount  wed expect insurers to consider that request. Often, 
insurers will agree to that and return the car to the policyholder.
However, we wouldnt regard it as an obligation for the insurer to always offer to return the 
car to the policyholder. It is, after all, once the settlement amount is agreed, the insurers car. 
So, I dont think LV were under any obligation to offer Mr C his car back.
I also note that if that option had been discussed, Mr C would not only have had to allow LV 
to keep the part of the settlement owed to him (around £470), but he would also have had to 
pay LV a further £2,800 or so, to cover the amount they could get for the car for salvage.
The excess
As I understand it, LV had traced the third party involved in the accident and were pursuing 
recovery of their costs. Theyd agreed theyd pay Mr C back his excess as part of that 
process. 
Thats fair and reasonable. And it aligns with the policy terms and conditions, which say:
You wont lose your excess  when the accident wasnt your fault  however you 
might have to pay your excess but this will be paid back to you once it [who was at 
fault] has been confirmed.
The courtesy car
LV admitted the courtesy car wasnt provided as soon as it should have been. They paid 
Mr C £20 per day for loss of use of a car in that period. Im satisfied thats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.Mr Cs future premiums
Mr Cs future premiums, with LV or other insurers, may be affected by the accident, even 
though it wasnt Mr Cs fault. 
That may seem unfair, but insurers are legitimately entitled to assess the risk involved in 
providing a policy before they offer cover. Some insurers may believe that being involved in 
an accident, even when it isnt your fault, means you are more likely to make a claim in 
future. Others may not. 
Its not for us to tell insurers how to calculate risk and/or determine the premiums which are 
based on that calculation. It is a competitive market and if insurers are too conservative in 
their calculation of risk, they will fail to attract customers.
Summary
I dont believe LV have treated Mr C unfairly or unreasonably in the way theyve handled his 
claim. The error they made in failing to provide a courtesy car in a timely manner had been 
admitted  and Mr C had been fairly compensated for it - before Mr C brought his complaint 
to us.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman