DRN-3501212
The complaint
Mr G complains that Coventry Building Society (CBS) put him on a different mortgage 
product to the one he had selected.  
What happened
On 11 November 2021 Mr G contacted CBS to discuss his options as his current mortgage 
product was coming to the end of the term. CBS told Mr G he could switch to a product that 
offered him a fixed rate of 1.09% for two years. CBS sent Mr G the paperwork to complete 
and return.
Mr G called back on 13 December 2021 because he wanted to discuss the possibility of 
reducing his mortgage and find out when he could make a lump sum without incurring any 
charges. CBS discussed the options with Mr G, he was also told that the interest rate would 
now be 1.29% because the previous product offered to him had been withdrawn. 
In January 2022 Mr G paid his lump sum to reduce the mortgage and it was transferred to 
the new product with an interest rate of 1.29%. Mr G was unhappy that he wasnt given the 
initial rate discussed with him of 1.09% so he complained to CBS. CBS considered his 
complaint but said because Mr G didnt return the paperwork in time, the rate had since been 
withdrawn so it wasnt able to honour that rate. 
Mr G disagreed and says he sent back the paperwork in time and he only called back in 
December because he wanted to discuss the option of making a lump sum towards his 
mortgage. So Mr G referred the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think CBS had acted unfairly in applying 
the rate of 1.29%. And he felt the rate charge by CBS was correct because it hadnt received 
the paperwork for the initial rate offered in time. 
Mr G asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He reiterated that the 
paperwork had been sent in time and it was an error by CBS for not applying the initial rate 
that hed asked for. As Mr G didnt agree with our investigators opinion, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why. 
On 11 November 2021 Mr G called CBS to discuss his mortgage options. I can see from the 
call transcripts that he was advised that he could move to a fixed rate of 1.09% for 2 years. 
During the conversation CBS told Mr G that products do change from time to time and so he 
should get the paperwork back to CBS to get the rate confirmed. Mr G said he understood 
and would contact CBS if he had any questions. 
In the paperwork sent to Mr G, highlighting the mortgage product hed discussed it said 
Availability of this product is limited and may be withdrawn at any time. In order to avoid 
disappointment, and the payment of any fees applying to another product, we suggest that 
you return the signed Product Special Conditions as soon as possible. So overall I think 
CBS made it clear to Mr G that he needed to sign and return the paperwork to ensure he 
was able to secure the product at the rate he wanted. 
CBS says Mr G hadnt returned the paperwork in time and says he confirmed this in his call 
with it on 13 December 2021 to discuss the mortgage further.  Mr G says he returned the 
paperwork as requested by CBS and the reason hed called on 13 December 2021 was only 
to confirm when he could pay the lump sum to reduce the mortgage without incurring a 
penalty. He says he only signed the second set of paperwork sent to him for the higher rate 
product because he didnt want to lose out later to an even higher rate. 
CBS provided us evidence to show that it withdrew the initial product with a fixed rate of 
1.09% on 19 November 2021. CBS also provided us information to show that Mr G returned 
the paperwork for the initial fixed rate of 1.09% but this wasnt received until 29 December 
2021. However on the later product of 1.29% the paperwork was received by 17 December 
2021, only a few days after the second call hed made to CBS.  
I appreciate Mr G feels he sent the paperwork in time but looking at the forms that he signed 
and returned, they are dated 21 November 2021 so even if he did send them they were sent 
back after CBS had withdrawn the product he was after. So I dont think it makes a 
difference as to when CBS received the paperwork as it would always have been after it had 
withdrawn the product Mr G wanted. 
So overall I dont think CBS acted unfairly in not honouring the original 1.09% rate because it 
had already notified Mr G that products could be withdrawn, and even though Mr G says he 
sent back the paperwork this would have been after CBS had already removed the product 
rate he wanted.  
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman