DRN-4167754
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B are unhappy that Northern Bank Limited, trading as Danske Bank, asked 
them to open a business account to receive property rental income.
What happened
In June 2022, Danske spoke with Mr B and Mrs B to discuss rental income being received 
into their personal current account. Following this conversation, Mr B and Mrs B received a 
letter from Danske asking them to move this rental income  which Danske deemed to be 
business activity  to a designated business account. Mr B and Mrs B werent about this, so 
they raised a complaint.
Danske responded to Mr B and Mrs B and reiterated that they considered the rental income 
being received into their account as being business related and confirmed their request for 
Mr B and Mrs B to move this income to a designated business account. Mr B and Mrs B 
werent satisfied with Danskes response, so they referred their complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that Danske were acting in 
accordance with their own policy on business related income  which they felt Danske were 
entitled to set  and so didnt feel that Danske had acted unfairly by asking Mr B and Mrs B 
to move their rental income to a business account as they had. Mr B and Mrs B remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Danske have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
While I can appreciate how Mr B and Mrs B might be unhappy at being asked to move their 
property rental income to a business account, Im satisfied that Danske have asked them to 
do so in line with their own policy on such matters. Im also satisfied that its for Danske to 
set their own policies on this matter, and that the policy isnt unfair. Additionally, it isnt within 
the remit of this service to instruct Danske to amend their own policies or act against them 
unless its felt the application of a policy has led to an unfair outcome in a specific instance. 
But I dont feel an unfair outcome has occurred here in this specific instance. This is because 
Danskes policy is that if a customer receives rental income from a set number of properties 
or more, that income is considered by them to be business related. And Mr B and Mrs B 
were receiving rental income into their account from several properties equal to the number 
such that Danske considered their income to be business related. Whether this number of 
rental incomes should be considered as constituting business activity is of course subjective. 
But I dont feel its unreasonable or unfair for Danske to consider it as such.
Accordingly, I dont feel Danske did act unfairly by considering the rental income to be 
business related in line with their policy, or to have asked Mr B and Mrs B to move that 
income to a business account  given that their current account was for personal use only.
Mr B and Mrs B have asked why Danske didnt tell them exactly what number of rental 
incomes qualified as being business related as per their policy, so that they could have 
moved only the number of rental incomes necessary to sit just below that number and 
continue using their personal account to receive the remaining rental incomes. 
But in this scenario Danske would still be aware that Mr B and Mrs B would still be receiving 
the same number of rental incomes  a number which they considered as being business 
related  even if some of those incomes werent now being received into the Danske 
account. As such, I dont feel there was any obligation or requirement for Danske to help Mr 
B and Mrs B work around their own policy in this way.
Mr B and Mrs B have also explained that they were receiving this number of rental incomes 
into their Danske account for many years, and so question why Danske have only applied 
this policy now. But Danske have explained they only became aware that Mr B and Mrs B 
might be in breach of their policy recently and then contacted them about it. And I dont feel 
that Mr B and Mrs B benefiting from being able to receive the rental income into the account 
for as long as they did does in anyway preclude Danske from applying their policy when they 
became aware that Mr B and Mrs B were in fact in breach of it. 
Finally, Mr B and Mrs B have explained that they contacted the relevant authorities and 
received confirmation that the number of rental properties they received into their account 
isnt considered as being necessarily business related by those relevant authorities. But 
Danske have confirmed that their policy isnt in response to any requirement from an 
external authority, but is an internal policy based on what they consider to be permissible 
activity on their personal current account. And, as explained above, Im satisfied that its for 
Danske to set and apply their own policies on this matter as they see fit.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr B and Mrs B were wanting, but it follows from the 
above that I dont feel that Danske have done anything wrong or acted unfairly here, and 
accordingly I wont be upholding this complaint. I trust that Mr B and Mrs B will understand, 
given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman