DRN-2765092
The complaint
Mr A complains Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) failed to replace his credit 
card and didnt provide him with a satisfactory way to pay off his balance after his card was 
cancelled. He also complains that M&S failed to communicate with him effectively. 
What happened
In August 2019 M&S blocked several payment requests made using Mr As credit card 
details. It blocked them because it thought they were suspicious. M&S contacted Mr A as it 
suspected a fraudster was attempting to impersonate him. Mr A was about to leave the 
country on holiday when M&S called him. 
Mr A confirmed it wasnt him attempting the transactions M&S had concerns about. M&S 
explained it would cancel Mr As credit card and send a new card to his home address. 
Nine days later, Mr A called M&S and asked how he could close his account. He explained 
he wasnt happy to speak to M&S staff if they were based abroad. Mr A said he wanted to 
know what his outstanding balance was. And he said he couldnt access his online account 
to pay it off as he normally did. 
Mr A explained he had not received his replacement card but had received a letter saying he 
needs to call M&S. When he called the number on the letter, he was told the matter was 
being dealt with by the relevant team  but he wasnt given any contact information for 
them. Mr A says he is unhappy about the lack of information he has been given by M&S 
fraud department. 
 
Mr A raised a complaint about these matters during the call M&S investigated and sent its 
final response to Mr A in which it said it had done nothing wrong.  Unhappy with the 
outcome, Mr A referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the matter and didnt uphold the complaint. They found M&S had 
treated Mr A fairly.  Unhappy with what our investigator said, the complaint has now been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for these reasons:
- M&S has important legal and regulatory obligations. One of its responsibilities is to, 
where possible, protect customers from falling victim to financial harm, especially 
fraud and scams. So, to these ends, M&S needs to ensure its customers transactions 
are authenticated in line with adequate security measures. And if it suspects 
something isnt right, it may carry out further steps to protect its customers. 
- Im satisfied M&S took reasonable steps to prevent Mr A from being defrauded and 
then cancelling his card. I note Mr A agrees M&S acted fairly in cancelling his credit 
card after he confirmed someone was attempting to impersonate him.  
- Mr A says M&S failed to replace his card in a reasonable manner. Its not clear 
exactly when Mr A returned from his holiday  though he did call M&S on the 
30 August 2019, around nine days after he was alerted to the attempted fraud. 
In any event, Im satisfied M&S sending the replacement card to his home address 
was reasonable, and it is common practice when new cards are issued. I accept its 
unfortunate Mr A could not use his M&S credit card facility whilst on holiday. But this 
is more to do with him being targeted by a fraudster, rather than any failing on M&S 
part.
- Ive considered that Mr A may have been chasing up his new card upon returning to 
the UK. 
M&S have given me a call between its internal complaint handler and a member of 
another team that took place in early September 2019. When asked why the new 
credit card hadnt been sent, the complaint handler was told that when theyd 
contacted Mr A the person picking up the call said the account was closed and 
refused to answer security questions to authenticate his identity.   
As Mr A told M&S he wanted to close his account in late August 2019, I cant see 
how not having a card to use from this point represents a loss to him, irrespective of 
whether it was Mr A who M&S spoke to.  
- Mr A says as he no longer had access to his online account, he had no means of 
knowing what his balance was. Mr A had opted out of paper statements some time 
ago. 
M&S have provided several call recordings between Mr A and its agents. Ive listened 
carefully to all these calls. I note that on the call of 30 August 2019, Mr A was told 
how much money was outstanding. Mr A also said his online account had been 
blocked. 
M&S agent explained she would send him a statement in the post. She also 
explained his online account hadnt been blocked, but that it needed to be reset as 
the wrong security credentials had previously been entered. 
Mr A responded that he didnt want to reset his password and security at that time. 
He then asked for the online account to be blocked. He was also offered the 
opportunity to make a payment against his balance, but that he didnt do this as he 
wanted to see what the outcome of his complaint to M&S would be. 
So, as Mr As online account wasnt blocked, and as he was made aware of his 
outstanding balance and sent statements, Im persuaded M&S acted fairly and so 
didnt do anything wrong. 
- Mr A says M&S failed to provide him with satisfactory ways to make payments 
towards his credit card account. But I note - in addition to being given an option to 
pay in late August 2019 - Mr A also spoke to M&S again in early September 2019. 
During that call he was given details to make a BACS payment against his credit card 
balance. 
So, I dont agree M&S were unreasonable. Instead I find they offered several ways 
for Mr A to make a payment. And they offered him the opportunity to make a 
payment online by offering to reset his online account. 
- Mr A says he was told this matter was being dealt with by the relevant team and everyone else he spoke to couldnt discuss it with him as they had no details about it. 
He adds that he was told the relevant team would get in touch with him, but they 
never did. 
But its not clear what information Mr A wanted from the fraud team, given the fraud 
had been prevented, and the team accepted it wasnt him who attempted the 
payments. Its also clear his questions about making payment were answered 
adequately by other M&S agents. 
- Mr A says hes incurred penalty charges and interest through no fault of his own. 
M&S say its refunded a late charge on the account. Given Mr A was given details of 
his balance and adequate methods in which to make payment without incurring 
further charges I dont think M&S need to do anymore.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Marks & Spencer Financial 
Services Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman