DRN-3428213
The complaint
Mr J complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc. Hes unhappy with the problems he encountered 
when trying to open a current account with them; and that they wont remove a hard search 
from his credit file.
What happened
Mr J applied for a current account with HSBC and wanted to use their switching service. Mr J 
was unable to go through this process as hed anticipated because he held a joint account at 
his other bank. HSBC explained hed need to convert the account hed opened with them to 
a joint account before their switching service could be used. And for that to happen, Mr and 
Mrs J would need to complete some forms for them to review as part of the application 
process.
Mr J was unhappy with what was expected from him, and the time it was taking to open an 
account because HSBCs website said the process would be easy and fuss free. He didnt 
agree his experience of this process lived up to what HSBC had expressed on their website, 
so he raised a complaint.
HSBC looked into Mr Js concerns and issued their final response. In this they explained the 
forms theyd sent him needed to be completed because Mrs J didnt bank with them. Mr J 
remained unhappy and asked to close the sole account that had been opened in his name.
Mr J and HSBC continued to correspond with each other about the complaint and closure of 
his account. And Mr J asked for his credit file to be amended. HSBC confirmed his account 
had been closed and that his credit file would be updated the reflect the same.
Mr J remained unhappy as a search remained on his credit file, so he explained the same to 
HSBC. HSBC responded and explained the search couldnt be removed due to his 
indebtedness to them, and the fact he had wilfully applied for an account with them. Mr J 
was unhappy with the language used in HSBCs correspondence as he never used the 
account and applied for it in good faith. He felt the words used by HSBC didnt accurately 
reflect his circumstances. Mr J and HSBC continued to correspond, but his complaints 
werent being resolved. So, he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Js complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
explained HSBC were obligated to share accurate information with credit referencing 
agencies. As Mr J had agreed to searches being carried out when he applied for the 
account, she didnt think the search should be removed from his credit file. Our investigator 
also acknowledged Mr J hadnt received the level of service hed expected, and the incorrect 
language used by HSBC when responding to his concerns. But overall, she was satisfied 
HSBC had tried to help Mr J through the application process and didnt feel they needed to 
do anything to put things right.
Mr J disagreed with our investigator, so his case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator, for 
broadly the same reasons. I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr J hoped for, but Ill explain 
my reasoning below.
Before I go into my findings, I wanted to assure Mr J that I have considered everything hes 
shared with us, and that Ive taken on board his strength of feeling on the matter.
Has HSBC acted unreasonably by not removing the hard search from Mr Js credit file? 
It isnt unusual for a business, like HSBC, to carry out searches with credit reference 
agencies when considering applications for a bank account. HSBC confirms this is 
something it does in the privacy notice thats available on their website. And having reviewed 
the website, Im satisfied HSBC sufficiently highlighted this was one of several documents it 
encourages potential customers to review before proceeding with an application. With this in 
mind, I consider its most likely Mr J had access to this information before he made his 
application for a current account.
Mr J doesnt dispute he made his application willingly, so in light of the above, I cant fairly 
say HSBC did anything wrong when it carried out a search. And it was this search that left a 
footprint on Mr Js credit file  and this too is explained in the privacy notice. So, for me to 
say HSBC should remove this legitimate search from Mr Js credit file, Id need to see 
something in the terms and conditions of the account that explains a search will be removed 
in circumstances similar to Mr Js.
As detailed above, Mr J closed his account with HSBC. The terms and conditions for the 
account has a section titled, 19. Closing your account or ending this agreement. This 
explains the circumstances in which accounts can be closed, and what happens if either 
party chooses to close an account. Ive reviewed this information, and there is nothing to 
suggest searches will be removed from credit files. So, I dont consider HSBC intentionally or 
implied theres a possibility for searches to be removed if an account is closed  even if that 
took place during the cooling off period (which didnt happen in this case).
If a customer willingly applies for an account, and agrees to credit searches in the process, 
I would only expect this type of search to be removed if the relevant financial business 
provided incorrect information to credit referencing agencies. Ive seen nothing to suggest 
thats the case here. What has happened is Mr J decided to close the account as his 
experience during the process of converting it to a joint account didnt suit his needs or 
preferences. Mr J was well within his rights to make that decision. However, HSBC are also 
obligated to report accurate information  and theres nothing inaccurate about the fact a 
search was carried out because Mr J applied for a current account with HSBC. 
Its for these reasons I dont consider HSBC needs to remove the search from Mr Js credit 
file. 
The level of service Mr J received
Having reviewed all the information provided, its clear Mr J found the process of dealing with 
HSBC frustrating. And these feelings were exacerbated given HSBCs website said that the 
process of switching accounts would be easy.We dont have the power to tell a business what its application processes should look like, 
or how they should have things set up when customers want to use their switching service. 
Ultimately, that is something for them to determine. But I have been able to consider if 
unnecessary obstacles were put in Mr Js way when he tried to open an account with them.
Mr J held a joint account with another bank, and his application with HSBC was solely in his 
name, so the switch couldnt be carried out as he had anticipated. This would have caused 
him understandable frustration, especially given what hed read about the process on 
HSBCs website. But having said that, Ive not seen any evidence that shows the process 
Mr J needed to go through was any different to what HSBC would ask of other customers 
with similar circumstances. So, I cant say asking Mr J to complete additional forms was the 
wrong thing to do.
Mr J was willing to work with HSBC to open a joint account and use their switching service. 
But he also wanted HSBC to give him a clear indication of how long the process would take. 
I dont think wanting to know this information was unreasonable. But I do consider problems 
started to arise when HSBC was unable to give him relatively precise timescales. I can see 
why having information about timescales would be helpful but giving a precise answer on 
something like that isnt always possible. HSBC told Mr J they couldnt give him a definitive 
timescale when he asked, but they did explain what the next steps would be once they 
received the information they needed from him and Mrs J. I consider that was the correct 
and reasonable thing to do in the circumstances. I say this because HSBC giving an 
incorrect timescale could have caused further problems if they were unable to complete the 
relevant processes within that stated timeframe.
Mr Js relationship with HSBC further deteriorated after he raised a complaint. Part of this 
was due to the language used in HSBCs correspondence when they said hed wilfully 
applied for the account, and that the search would remain on his credit file due to his 
indebtedness to them.
I agree the terminology used by HSBC wasnt appropriate in the circumstances. I say this 
because they didnt accurately reflect Mr Js intentions when he applied for his account. 
Also, the term indebtedness could easily be interpreted by many to mean they owed 
money to HSBC  which wasnt the case for Mr J. Its not disputed Mr J didnt use the 
current account. And there is nothing to show that when he applied for the account, he did 
so with anything but good intentions, and in good faith. HSBC have acknowledged they used 
the incorrect wording, and are sorry for the impact this had on Mr J. While HSBC should 
have been more careful with the language they used, Im not persuaded they used this 
wording to intentionally upset or anger Mr J. 
Overall, the process for opening an account was more cumbersome than Mr J expected, 
given what hed read on HSBCs website. And if a customer is struggling, I would expect a 
business to offer support. Having reviewed the correspondence between Mr J and HSBC, 
I am satisfied HSBC tried to support Mr J through the process. I appreciate Mr J may 
disagree with my interpretation of what happened; but there is little more I would have 
expected HSBC to do in the circumstances.
 
Considering the above, while I understand this isnt the answer Mr J hoped for, I dont 
consider his complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman