DRN-2879282
The complaint
Miss S complains that NewDay Ltd set a credit limit on her credit card account that was too
high and says it continued to charge her interest when she closed the account.
What happened
Miss S says NewDay set the credit limit on her account too high as she had other debts at
the time. She says the interest rate was too high and closed the account in May 2018 but
was still charged interest after that date. Miss S would like compensation for what took place
and for the interest to be refunded.
NewDay says the account was opened in February 2017 and it carried out appropriate
checks before approving the application with a credit limit of £900. It says Miss S told it she
had a household income of £45,000 and checked her credit file which showed no defaults,
County Court Judgements (CCJs) or arrears on other accounts. It also says the checks
didnt show any payday lending or payment arrangements. NewDay says Miss S told it about
financial difficulties in October 2019 and so it sent her an income and expenditure form that
wasnt returned but Miss S then continued making required payments. It says Miss S told it
about financial difficulties in June 2020 but repaid the full balance some months later.
Miss S brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint and thought
the lending was unaffordable from the outset. The investigator thought Miss S had further
debts NewDay hadnt considered, recorded that she had high indebtedness and hadnt
considered the payday lending at or around the time of lending. The investigator thought
there was a number of searches on Miss Ss credit file and NewDay should have carried out
further checks which would have shown the account was unaffordable. And thought Miss S
used the full balance shortly after the account was opened. The investigator recommended
NewDay refund interest, remove adverse information from Miss Ss credit file and pay 8%
simple interest on the refund.
NewDay doesnt accept that view and in summary says use of the credit limit or minimum
payments are not necessarily a sign of unaffordability. And that it did carry out appropriate
checks but cant be responsible for information not being recorded on a credit file.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said that I didnt uphold the complaint. 
I said that lenders and providers of credit should carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks on any lending or credit application. Those checks will of course vary depending on 
the type and amount of lending. This was an application for a credit facility rather than for 
example a loan or mortgage.
I looked carefully at the information Miss S provided at the time of the application in
2017 and could see she declared a total income of £45,000. I could also see that NewDay
correctly carried out affordability checks on the application and looked at Miss Ss credit file
and her debts. I appreciated that NewDay calculated Miss Ss debt at just under £8,000 but
there was another credit card debt that didnt appear to have been present on the credit file
NewDay checked of about another £4,000. I also thought that the credit file NewDay 
checked may not have had information about four payday lending applications between 
2016-2017.
I was satisfied that regardless of either debt figure, that on the face of it NewDays lending 
was affordable and that it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on the 
application. I didnt think NewDay was responsible for the information reported by the Credit 
Reference Agencies and I said I couldnt fairly hold it responsible for not being aware of the 
additional debt and the payday lending. In any event I didnt think it likely NewDays lending 
decision would have been any different even if it known about those matters as it was 
entitled to consider a number of factors when deciding to lend such as the absence of any 
defaults, CCJs and the absence of any repayment arrangements on other debts.
I appreciated the investigators view, that NewDay should have looked closer at Miss
Ss application and carried out further checks. But I thought provisionally that it did carry out
appropriate checks and took into account the factors I would have expected and gave Miss
S what I thought was a relatively modest credit limit of £900. I was satisfied that Miss S 
made required repayments for some significant time from the account opening which I 
thought provided further evidence that the lending decision was appropriate.
I was satisfied that Miss Ss original complaint was not about the affordability of the lending 
but about the interest amount and that it was applied after the account was closed in 2018. I 
was satisfied that Miss S would have agreed to the interest rate when the account was 
opened. And I had not seen any evidence that Miss S closed the account in 2018 as she 
says. I looked carefully at NewDays records and was satisfied the account was closed in 
2020 and so it was entitled to charge interest until that time.
Lenders should treat customers in financial difficulties positively and sympathetically. I could
see from NewDays records that Miss S told it about such difficulties in October 2019 and
that she was asked to complete an expenditure/income form which would have allowed it to
have started its process to help her. I couldnt see any evidence that form was returned but 
could see Miss S made a payment shortly afterwards. I thought the next contact about 
financial difficulties took place in June 2020 and that NewDay tried to speak to Miss S 
without success.
The account was closed a few months later. So, I was satisfied NewDay tried to
assist Miss S but without the required form it couldnt do anything further. I made clear that I
had not seen any evidence about any contact in 2018 but said I would of course consider 
that if Miss S could provide further information about that contact and why she says the 
account was closed then, even though account statements would have shown the account to 
be still open in 2020.
Overall my provisional view was that NewDay did carry out reasonable and proportionate 
credit checks and gave Miss S a relatively modest credit limit of £900 which based on the
calculations and checks I had seen was affordable.
Miss S doesnt accept my view and accepts NewDay may have frozen her account in 2018 
but it wasnt made clear to her. She says she doesnt recall the income/expenditure form 
being sent and maintains she has been treated unfairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons. Im satisfied at the time of lending the credit facility was 
affordable and that appropriate checks were carried out. I think the financial problems took 
place some time later and that for the reasons I have explained, the account wasnt closed in 
2018. And that ought to have been reasonably obvious to Miss S as she would have 
continued to receive account statements. I also think it was her responsibility to speak to 
NewDay and make sure the forms it required about income and expenditure were returned 
to it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman