DRN-3401372
The complaint
N - a limited company - is complaining that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt remove a third 
party from its mandate (Ill refer to the third party as B). This resulted in B making a payment 
on the account which N says he wasnt authorised to do. This caused N severe financial 
difficulties, resulting in it becoming insolvent. N is unhappy that Barclays is unwilling to 
refund the disputed transaction and its consequential losses. 
What happened
I will summarise the timeline of events below:
- N says it requested for B to be removed from the mandate on Ns account. This was 
to ensure B could no longer make payments on behalf of N. 
- N says this was discussed in a meeting with Ns business manager at Barclays in 
2015. Barclays has no record of this meeting. 
- N has provided an email to show it chased the mandate update with the business 
manager a few weeks later. No response was received.
- Five years later, B accessed Ns account and made a payment from it, which N says 
was not authorised.
- N says as a result of the fraudulent payment, the lack of cash in its business bank 
account led to financial losses through lost contracts. N says those losses resulted in 
N becoming insolvent. 
- In particular, N says it lost a contract with an investor, which would have seen income 
for N totaling approximately $257,000. 
- N is seeking payment from Barclays for its consequential losses from the error it says 
Barclays made, by not removing B from its mandate. 
Barclays initially declined to repay the disputed payment, saying it was a civil dispute 
between N and its employee. It said the payment was made by B, who had authority to make 
payments on the account at the time. It didnt have any record of a request for B to be 
removed from Ns mandate. And it declined to reimburse any of Ns consequential losses. 
But Barclays did offer to pay £250 in compensation and later added a further £50 to this. 
Barclays said this was to recognise the poor customer service it had provided and then the 
additional payment was for further servicing errors it identified.
As Ns directors didnt accept this outcome it brought the complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into things and in summary said:
- He was satisfied that the payment from Ns account wasnt properly authorised.
- He thought it was likely a meeting did go ahead between Ns directors at a branch. 
And paperwork was completed for the third party to be removed from the mandate. 
He said this was supported by an email from one of Ns directors, chasing this up a 
few weeks after the meeting.
- Ns directors hadnt been grossly negligent in keeping the account details or security 
information secure.
- He concluded the fraudulent transaction should be refunded, plus 8% interest, and if 
any fees or interest were charged as a result of the transactions these should be 
refunded as well. 
He went on to carefully consider Ns claims for financial loss and loss of reputation. He said:
- He didnt think N did all it could to mitigate its losses  only one chaser was made by 
Ns directors, regarding the removal of B from the mandate  despite it not receiving 
any confirmation that it hadnt been actioned. But Barclays error still resulted in the 
payment being made from the account.
- He hadnt been provided with any evidence to show N attempted to raise funds 
elsewhere so the lost contract could be executed. If he had evidence of this, it would 
have satisfied him that some efforts were made to mitigate Ns losses. 
The investigator continued to communicate with Ns directors. As a result, it provided 
evidence which it felt demonstrated that attempts were made to raise funds elsewhere, after 
the disputed transaction was made. And N provided substantive correspondence and 
paperwork which it says shows the loss of a particular contract was directly impacted by the 
fraudulent payment made from Ns account. 
The directors say N couldnt complete its part of the contract, to pay a legal retainer fee, 
which then resulted in the investor losing faith and the contract to invest $25m couldnt be 
completed. N says these income losses totalled an estimated $257,000, made up of a 
management fee and an estimated performance fee.
The investigator wasnt satisfied that the loss of the particular contract N had described, was 
a reasonably foreseeable result of Barclays error. He also said that there was still a chain of 
events which had to fall into place, following the error, which could have been interrupted at 
any point. So, he wasnt persuaded that the loss directly flowed from the error. 
The investigator didnt make any award for Ns consequential losses. 
He also considered Ns request for information relating to a GDPR request but explained this 
wasnt something our service could consider. 
The investigator also considered the compensation Barclays had already offered. He agreed 
that the service N experienced had been poor and that a great deal of inconvenience was 
caused to Ns directors. He explained our service cant make awards to individuals where 
the complaint is being brought by a limited company. And so overall, he felt the offer of £250 
and then the further £50 was fair in the circumstances.
Barclays responded to say it accepted the investigators findings and recommendations 
regarding the refund of the disputed payment plus interest and would not be willing to 
reimburse Ns additional losses.
N disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed again. I wont set out all its 
responses, as these are detailed, but in summary it said: 
- Barclays was culpable for the funds that were missing at a critical time for N. The 
money was needed for the chain of events that was interrupted due to Barclays error.
- Shareholder and client trust was eroded, as a result of all cash being lost, due to the 
fraudulent transaction. This undermined Ns ability to meet its professional and 
regulatory obligations.
- This had an impact on Ns ability to attract more funding for investments or develop business opportunities.
- N detailed various impacts, to the course of its day to day operations, which had long 
term impacts on the business and its finances.
- N should not suffer as a result of Barclays failure - with regard to the email, that it 
sent to remove the third party - but was not acted upon by the Barclays member of 
staff.
- Theres been no penalty for Barclays not keeping proper records and it is guilty of 
negligence or is complicit in theft and subsequent money laundering.
- N provided details of various other attempted contracts and negotiations to secure 
funding to execute the contract which it says failed due to the disputed transaction.
As N didnt accept the investigators recommendations to resolve the complaint it has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Ns complaint and Im not making any further award for 
compensation or consequential loss. Ill explain why
The disputed transaction
The investigator upheld the initial disputed payment from Ns account and Barclays accepted 
this finding and the recommendation and to pay interest. I have carefully considered the 
events and I think the payment was authorised by N as B was still authorised to act on Ns 
behalf when the payment was made. But I would have come to the same outcome as the 
investigator, that the payment plus interest needs to be refunded.
 
I say this because although the payment was authorised it shouldnt have occurred because 
B ought to have been removed from the mandate by the time of the payment. Like the 
investigator Im persuaded that Ns director at the time most likely completed the mandate 
for Bs removal, in branch, and followed this up with the business manager. I think its likely 
the business manager didnt correctly complete the procedure, and this incorrectly allowed B 
to remain as an authorised party on the account. The disputed payment would not have 
occurred if it not for Barclays error. Barclays has agreed to refund the disputed payment plus 
8% interest, and I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Barclays offered £300 in compensation for the initial poor service it provided and for further 
servicing errors. I think this is fair in the circumstances and havent seen any reason to direct 
Barclays to pay further compensation.
Consequential loss
What remains in dispute is Ns claim for consequential losses and damage to reputation. I 
will focus the remainder of my decision on these points. 
Ns directors have provided a considerable amount of correspondence between it and 
various other parties, which it says demonstrates that: 
- The loss of the £15,000 from the disputed transaction was a direct cause for a 
specific contract to fail, costing N $257,000 in potential lost income. - N was unable to produce any revenue and is now insolvent.
- The directors could not attract financial support for N because of the error made by 
Barclays, which in turn caused damage to its reputation and loss of faith from its 
shareholders and investors.
Ill start by saying I agree with the investigator, that Ns directors had an opportunity to 
mitigate Ns losses when they didnt receive a response from Barclays - following the request 
to remove B from Ns mandate. I think action by Ns directors at this point would have been 
reasonable, given B had authority to make transactions on Ns behalf which its directors no 
longer wanted. No response was received, following the chaser email Ns director sent and 
no written correspondence was received to confirm the updated mandate.  If this had been 
followed up, then the error would have likely been identified and the losses prevented 
altogether. So, Ive taken this into account when considering Ns claim for consequential 
losses. 
Ns directors have also provided numerous email chains and correspondence. I wont 
comment on every piece of correspondence, but these include contact with the parties 
involved in a particular contract/agreement which N said was lost, due to Barclays error. 
Having read the documents Ns directors have provided carefully, Im not persuaded that I 
can say with any certainty that the agreement failed as a direct result of Barclays error and 
the money that was missing from Ns account. In the weeks and months leading up to the 
potential contract execution date I can see Ns director was dealing with the fund manager 
and the investor. I can see that N agreed to pay £15,000 as a legal retainer fee, as part of its 
role in the agreement. This was the money that N says was then fraudulently taken from its 
account, meaning it couldnt execute its part of the agreement. But it also needed to secure 
$25m from its investor as well. And whilst I can see there was interest from the investor 
there isnt any documentation or correspondence which shows confirmation that the investor 
had agreed and committed to the $25m investment. So, whilst I can see there was a 
possibility the agreement could have been executed as N says, there is also the possibility 
that it wouldnt have. 
Ill go on to comment about Ns attempts to raise funds, in general, later, and why I dont 
think these were directly impacted by Barclays error. But I also cant see that N discussed 
making any alternative arrangements for the £15,000 to be paid, with either party to the 
contract, after it became aware the funds were missing from the account.
Given the uncertainty here, I dont think it would be fair to conclude that the error and 
missing funds are the sole reason the contract wasnt executed or could reasonably be 
considered as a direct loss. Like the investigator, I agree that the there was a chain of events 
involved here which could have broken at any point.
In addition to the above. I can see that N has calculated its losses linked to this contract 
based on a management fee and predicted performance on the fund. This also doesnt 
appear to have been formally agreed and is a speculative estimate rather than a guaranteed 
income amount. So, I also dont agree that the losses N has stated were guaranteed, even if 
this contract had been executed as N says. Its also true there was no historical performance 
that N might refer to to demonstrate potential income from any deal. 
N has provided evidence of other attempted negotiations after these events. It says these 
failed due to the loss of faith in N because of the missing funds from its account. But from 
the correspondence provided, it would appear that at least several of these ventures failed 
due to investors not being interested in the deals N was offering. I havent seen anything 
which persuades me these were directly linked to the missing funds. Its unclear how the 
other parties would have been aware of the loss and so its not possible to say how this may 
have affected the sentiment of potential investors. This also adds to my finding that there 
was no guarantee, that the contract N has specifically referred to, was guaranteed either.I can see that Ns directors also attempted to raise funds by using personal contacts, but 
these also werent successful. The reasons for not securing these funds were varied but also 
related to the financial markets and businesses being impacted by the Covid-19 global 
pandemic. So again, Im not persuaded that Ns failure to secure funding or other contracts 
was as a direct result of the error made by Barclays.
 
Overall, Im not persuaded Barclays error created a direct loss for N, other than the missing 
funds themselves. I can see N was having financial difficulties during this time but there were 
a number of factors involved including, as Ive mentioned, the impact of Covid-19 on the 
financial markets. As a result, I dont recommend that Barclays pay N its claim for 
consequential loss or damage to reputation.
Putting things right
I agree with the investigator and Barclays has agreed to:
 
- refund the disputed transactions for EUR 14,945;
- add 8% simple interest from the date the disputed transaction was made to the date 
of settlement (less any tax properly deductible); 
- refund any additional fees or interest in relation to the disputed transaction (only) if 
these were charged; and
- pay the £300 in compensation if this has not already been paid.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC. I now direct Barclays to pay 
the settlement as set out above. But I do not recommend that it pays anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman