DRN-2086483
The complaint
Mr S complains about his secured loan agreement, which is administered by Acenden 
Limited. He says Acenden, and the previous owners of the loan, have applied excessive and 
unfair fees and charges to the loan.
What happened
Mr S took out his loan, borrowing £68,000 over 25 years. As a second charge loan for more 
than £25,000 taken out before 2008, the loan was unregulated. The original lender has since 
gone out of business and the loan has been sold on. Its currently owned by an unregulated 
lender Ill call M, which has appointed Acenden to manage the loan on its behalf.
Mr S complained that when he came to pay back the loan in 2019, the balance was 
excessive. The redemption statement included an early repayment fee and an exit fee. And 
other fees and charges had been added during the life of the loan. He also complained that 
he ended up having to pay more interest than was quoted for on the redemption statement. 
He also complained that the loan had been sold on  and he didnt therefore believe that the 
original lenders terms were applicable any more.
Our investigator said we could only consider part of the complaint. He said Mr S had 
complained about fees before, in 2018. Acenden had replied to that complaint at the time 
and as Mr S hadnt referred it to us within six months, it was now out of time. He said that 
since then the fees Acenden had charged were fair. He didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. So Mr S asked for it to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The loan was taken out with one company, and later passed on to M where its been since. 
The terms and conditions allow the loan to be sold on to a new company, and thats what 
happened here. Mr S says he didnt agree to any change  but, according to the loan terms, 
his agreement isnt required. These sorts of terms arent unusual in mortgage and secured 
loan agreements, and I dont think Mr S was treated unfairly or disadvantaged by it. His loan 
has continued to operate under the same terms and conditions throughout.
Mr S has complained about fees and charges added to the loan balance before, in 2018. 
Acenden responded to that complaint at the time, and told Mr S that there was a time limit to 
bring his concerns to the Financial Ombudsman Service  six months from the date of the 
response. As Mr S didnt bring that complaint to us until 2019, its out of time. Acenden 
hasnt consented to us looking at it even though its out of time, and Im not aware of any 
exceptional circumstances that explain the delay. This means that I cant consider any fees 
and charges added to the loan before the previous final response. But any fees added since 
then werent part of the previous complaint, and so can be considered here. As a result, Ill 
only look at fees added from 24 September 2018 to when the loan was redeemed in 2019.
There were three arrears fees, of £35 each, added in this time period. They were added in 
months in which Mr S missed his monthly payment. When that happens, theres extra work 
for the lender  for example in trying to contact Mr S and find out why payment hasnt been 
made, and whether he needs any support  and Acenden is entitled under the mortgage 
terms to charge for that work. Im satisfied those fees were fair.
When Mr S came to redeem the loan, he was charged a fee of £35 for producing the 
redemption statement,. £226.35 early redemption charge, and £190 final repayment charge, 
as well as some additional interest. I think these charges were fair too. All of them are 
allowed for in the terms and conditions.
This isnt a first charge mortgage  on a first charge mortgage, theres often a fixed rate in 
the early years, and an early redemption charge if the mortgage ends during the fixed rate. 
Second charge loans like this one dont generally operate in that way. They have early 
repayment charges too, but their purpose and mechanism is different. 
The Consumer Credit Regulations allow a lender to add an additional charge, representing 
some lost interest, where a loan is repaid early. Theres a very complex formula for setting 
out how its calculated. This isnt a regulated agreement, and so those regulations dont 
apply. But the charge here  of one months interest  is broadly similar to what it would be if 
the regulations did apply. I dont think its unreasonable for a lender to recover some of the 
money it loses when a loan is paid back early  its the price for allowing early redemption  
and since the amount in this case was similar to the amount the law says can be charged on 
a regulated agreement, I dont think what Mr S was asked to pay was unfair.
The £190 repayment charge is to cover the lenders costs in bringing the loan to an end. 
This includes the various administrative expenses involved, such as removing the charge 
from the Land Registry. These are costs the lender incurs, and its entitled to charge a fee 
that represents an estimate of its costs. Again, I dont think this is unfair. The same applies 
to the charge for producing the redemption statement.
Finally, Mr S was asked to pay some additional interest. Thats because interest is charged 
daily on the loan. When a redemption statement is issued, its based on the loan balance on 
a particular day. Where payment is made later, more interest will have been charged and so 
the balance will be slightly higher than quoted in the statement. Again, thats not unfair. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman