DRN-1606362
The complaint
Miss D complains about various aspects of Skipton Building Society's administration of her 
ISA account. 
What happened
Miss D applied for a five-year fixed-rate ISA with Skipton on 16 April 2014. She opened the 
account with a deposit of £3,500.  After receiving enquiries about adding a further deposit 
Skipton noted the account had been opened as a bond in error, and rectified this. It wrote 
out to Miss D in July 2014 to let her know of the correction and notified her the maturity date 
was 16 May 2019.  A further deposit of £11,500 was made in August 2014. 
In March 2019, Skipton wrote to Miss D about the impending maturity of her ISA to ask for 
her instructions for the proceeds. Miss D contacted Skipton as she thought the maturity date 
was in April, five years after taking the out ISA. However, it said she couldn't close the 
account early without penalty. So Miss D complained. Skipton allowed early withdrawal, 
penalty free and offered £150 compensation. Following the release of funds, Miss D 
complained as she didn't believe she had been paid interest for the time Skipton had her 
funds beyond what she thought was the maturity date of 15 April 2019. It didn't uphold her 
complaint as it said the funds had been withdrawn a month prior to the official maturity date 
of 16 May 2019.  
Our investigator was satisfied that Skipton had already fairly resolved Miss D's complaint. 
Miss D has asked for the matter to be reviewed. She remains concerned the maturity date 
was incorrect; she hasn't been paid interest for the time Skipton held funds beyond the 
maturity date; she isn't sure she was paid interest at the start of her investment and she is 
concerned tax might have been deducted from the interest as the account was initially 
opened as a bond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss D has raised a number of concerns about how her account has been administered. I 
understand she feels very strongly about this, but I can only uphold a complaint if I find a 
business has done something wrong, or if it hasn't already taken sufficient steps to put 
matters right. 
Interest on the ISA
Skipton has provided evidence to show that Miss D's ISA has earned interest from the day 
the cheque cleared to earn interest - 22 April 2014. Although this was 6 days after Miss D 
made the deposit, the weekend in between was Easter and so incorporated two bank 
holidays. I'm satisfied the deposit started to earn interest the second working day after the 
deposit was made and this was included in the amount added to Miss D's ISA in May 2015 
(interest is added annually) of £375.90. Miss D is concerned tax may have been deducted from this sum. But given when she made 
her deposits and the interest rate of 3%, I'm satisfied this amount is gross. And this was 
added in May 2015, 10 months after her account was changed to an ISA. Miss D was also 
sent an annual statement in 2015 which showed that no tax had been deducted. I have 
considered the email from Miss D's accountant, but I don't consider this to be persuasive 
evidence that tax has been incorrectly deducted. 
Overall, based on the information I have, I'm satisfied the correct amount of interest was 
paid in 2015. 
The maturity date of the ISA
Miss D applied for her ISA account on 16 April 2014.  The ISA was a five-year fixed rate 
ISA.  I can understand why Miss D believed the ISA would mature on 15 April 2019 - this is 
not only five years after the ISA was applied for, but was also in the literature she has about 
the ISA. 
However, that the ISA is a five-year ISA doesn't always mean the investment will mature 
exactly five years later. Many institutions offer products with a set end date that might mean 
the product ends shortly after a strict application of a time period. The literature that Miss D 
was given, was for an ISA Skipton had on offer from 17 March 2014 and had a set maturity 
date of 15 April 2014 - longer than the five years given in the title of the product. 
Skipton has told us that the ISA on offer from 17 March 2014 was withdrawn on 16 April 
2014 (although other information suggests it might originally have been on offer for longer). 
So when Miss D applied for her ISA, she was placed into the next product which had been 
available from 28 March 2014 and had a set maturity date of 16 May 2019.  Given the 
product maturing on 15 April 2019 was no longer available, I don't think Skipton has done 
anything wrong - the maturity date for the ISA was 16 May 2019 as per its terms and 
conditions. 
I accept Miss D has, somehow, been given the wrong terms and conditions. That is 
unfortunate, and likely as a result of her application being made on the same day the 
previous product was withdrawn.  I also accept this has resulted in much of Miss D's 
confusion about the correct maturity date of her ISA. But I can't ignore that when Miss D was 
written to in July 2014 (when notified her account had been incorrectly opened as a bond) 
and in every annual statement since, she has been notified her maturity date was 16 May 
2019. I'm satisfied she has received plenty of notification in advance of when her ISA was 
due to mature.
Miss D didn't question the maturity date of her ISA until she received a letter in March 2019 
asking for her instructions regarding the proceeds. And when she complained Skipton 
allowed her to withdraw her funds prior to the maturity date without penalty. It also offered 
£150 compensation for the errors caused initially.
As I'm satisfied the correct maturity date for the ISA is 16 May 2019, I don't find any basis on 
which to ask Skipton to pay further interest from 15 April 2019 to 23 April 2019 (when the 
funds reached her account) - Miss D is only entitled to interest to 15 April, the date she 
withdrew her funds, which was prior to the ISA's maturity date. 
Having considered the matter carefully, I'm satisfied allowing a penalty free withdrawal of her 
funds and paying a £150 compensation fairly resolves this complaint. I therefore don't 
require Skipton to take any further action in relation to this matter. My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint as it has already 
been fairly resolved. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman