DRN-2102452
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs F are unhappy that their mortgage with Clydesdale Bank Plc was moved to a 
new fixed rate (without an offsetting facility). They say theyd cancelled the application to 
change rate, and it should have remained as an offset mortgage on the standard variable 
rate (SVR).
What happened
Mr G and Mrs F have their residential mortgage with Clydesdale. They also have a buy-to-let 
mortgage with Clydesdale, but thats not the subject of this complaint so any reference to 
Mr G and Mrs Fs mortgage in this decision should be taken to mean the residential 
mortgage unless I specify otherwise.
They had an offset mortgage on a preferential interest rate, and the preferential rate was due 
to end on 30 September 2019. At that point it would automatically move to the SVR (still with 
an offsetting facility) unless Mr G and Mrs F applied for a new preferential interest rate.
On 29 May 2019 Mr G spoke to Clydesdale on the phone as he wanted to apply for a new 
interest rate for the mortgage. He applied on a non-advised basis for a (non-offset) two-year 
fixed rate of 1.94%. It was agreed that the new rate would take effect from 1 July.
Mr G contacted Clydesdale on 10 June to ask if the start date for the new rate could be 
deferred for as long as possible. After some discussions, Mr G requested the new start date 
be 1 November.
On 17 July Mr G phoned up predominantly about the buy-to-let mortgage, although in that 
call he mentioned the residential mortgage.
There was a further call on 26 September whereby the mortgage was discussed, and then 
calls in October that were about various savings accounts and other banking issues.
On 1 November the mortgage switched to the new fixed rate and a letter was issued to Mr G 
and Mrs F. Upon receipt of that letter, on 7 November, Mr G phoned Clydesdale to complain. 
He said hed cancelled the application to switch the mortgage as he wanted to stay on the 
SVR due to the offsetting facility he had.
Clydesdale didnt uphold the complaint. It said the calls had been listened to and Mr G didnt 
cancel the application. 
Our investigator said Clydesdale hadnt done anything wrong as Mr G and Mrs F had 
accepted the new fixed rate, and hadnt cancelled it.
Mr G and Mrs F didnt agree and so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr G and Mrs F wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in 
the way that I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments 
to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not 
considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome. 
Ive listened very carefully to all the calls that took place. Any parts of the calls I quote wont 
be exact transcripts as I wont include all the fillers (eg erm) and all the back and forth, Ill 
just pull out the key parts.
Neither side disputes that Mr G applied for a new two-year fixed rate in the 29 May phone 
call. In that call Mr G was told:
If for any reason you do not want to progress you have seven working days to let us 
know otherwise the rate will be put in place for you.
In the call Mr G confirmed he wanted to proceed, and it was agreed that the new rate would 
take effect from 1 July.
The product switch mortgage offer was issued to Mr G and Mrs F on 29 May and that said:
You have a reflection period of 7 calendar days from the date you receive this offer, to 
consider if this mortgage is right for you. Although you are free to take this time, you can 
decide not to. Please refer to the Accepting our Offer section below for details of how to 
proceed. If you want to accept this mortgage offer, you should note that the mortgage 
must complete by 25/11/2019.
Once the mortgage has completed, you cannot withdraw but you can repay it at any time 
in accordance with the terms and conditions of your mortgage (please refer to the Early 
repayment section within the mortgage illustration provided with this offer for any early 
repayment charges which may apply).
Mr G phoned Clydesdale on 10 June and in that call he said:
I recently agreed with one of your mortgage advisers to switch to a fixed rate, which I 
still want to do
I still want the fixed rate, but because Ive got money coming in that I wasnt expecting, I 
want to keep the offset mortgage for now and I just wanted to make sure it was OK to 
defer it.
Im on an offset mortgage and it will be better for me to switch to a fixed rate but 
because Ive [.] managed to exchange contracts on the sale of an unrelated property 
which means that Im going to have all the mortgage money available from the 8th of July. 
Im not looking to redeem the mortgage but Im just going to keep it in the offset account 
so I dont actually pay interest until November which is the point at which I will need to 
switch to the fixed rate.
I dont want to cancel it [unclear] it will just go ahead anyway. Its just that while I dont 
have the exact dates I believe that your colleague who I spoke to initially has arranged 
for it to start sooner rather than later, as the latest at which it needs to complete or switch 
to the fixed rate is the 25th of November.There was then a conversation about dates:
Mr G:if you can make the team aware, I dont have the dates to hand, when my 
current deal expires
Clydesdale:that is at the end of September
Mr G:End of September? [] Ill probably leave it for another month because it 
means that the monthly payment will just reduce my capital. If you just let 
them know that Im looking to defer it - but I dont want to cancel it, thats 
important  until November we can then sort out the actual dates if thats OK
Mr G:If they could make it the 1st of November that would be really helpful.
Mr G emphasised the phrase but I dont want to cancel it, thats important in this call. 
Having considered everything, Im satisfied at this point Mr G was aware the rate change 
was still going ahead, albeit it was being delayed until November at his request.
On 26 September the initial conversation was about the fact Mr G and Mrs Fs existing rate 
would end on 30 September, and as the payments are collected a month in arrears, their 
payment would remain the same in October, even though the mortgage would have moved 
to the SVR from 1 October. The conversation moved onto the fact the SVR was 5.2% and 
that Mr G and Mrs F didnt need to do anything to facilitate the change to SVR on 1 October, 
and then about the fixed rate:
Clydesdale: The only thing that you need to bear in mind is that youve obviously asked 
for that rate to be put in place on the 1st of November, so if you didnt want 
that to happen youll need to let us know before that date and we can 
obviously get things changed for you.
Mr G: OK, is that something you can deal with or do I need to speak to a separate 
department?
Clydesdale: You might be better speaking to our mortgage service team if you do want to 
make that change, alternatively you can give us a call we can let them know
Mr G: Ok, Ill leave it for now as obviously I dont need to do anything for now 
anyway. Although Im travelling, I might phone next week, well see.
Mr G says he understood hed been told that if he did nothing then the change to the fixed 
rate wouldnt take place and hed instead remain on the SVR. Ive considered this point 
carefully and listened to the call a few times. Having done so Im satisfied Mr G was told the 
opposite. He was told:
The only thing that you need to bear in mind is that youve obviously asked for that rate 
to be put in place on the 1st of November, so if you didnt want that to happen youll need 
to let us know before that dateEarlier in the call when asked if it was correct that he wanted the fixed rate applied on 
1 November Mr G replied:
As it stands, however, what I would probably do is see if I could have that extended but I 
dont know if that would be possible.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied at this point Mr G was still intending to switch to 
the fixed rate albeit he wanted to delay the start date again. Im also satisfied the last thing 
he was told was that the rate switch would happen on 1 November unless he phoned again 
before then. It was left, with Mr G saying:
Ok, Ill leave it for now as obviously I dont need to do anything for now anyway. Although 
Im travelling, I might phone next week, well see.
I dont know why Mr G didnt phone again after that call to either delay the switch to the last 
date it could be put in place (25 November) or to cancel it entirely, but Im satisfied 
Clydesdale gave him the correct information in that the switch would happen on 1 November 
if it didnt hear from him to cancel it before then.
It may be Mr G misunderstood what hed been told, but I cant hold Clydesdale liable for that 
as Im satisfied the correct information was given and at no point in any of the calls before 
1 November did Mr G say he wanted to cancel the rate switch application. I cant take into 
account what Mr G and Mrs Fs intentions were, only what actually was said.
Mr G has said the complaint calls on 7 November are important, but I dont agree. Despite 
that Ive listened to them in full at his request. 
What I am deciding here is whether Clydesdale did anything wrong when it transferred Mr G 
and Mrs Fs mortgage to the new fixed rate on 1 November. So anything that happened - or 
was said - after that date has no bearing on my decision. 
Mr G has said Clydesdale told him it was unable to cancel the fixed rate when he phoned on 
7 November, but thats right. Once a preferential interest rate like this is put in force there is 
no cancellation period. If Mr G and Mrs F wanted to come out of the new rate then theyd 
have to pay the early repayment charge that was laid out in the mortgage contract. This was 
explained in the mortgage offer:
Once the mortgage has completed, you cannot withdraw but you can repay it at any time 
in accordance with the terms and conditions of your mortgage (please refer to the Early 
repayment section within the mortgage illustration provided with this offer for any early 
repayment charges which may apply).
If Clydesdale had done something wrong here, either in giving Mr G the wrong information or 
in not processing a direct request from him to cancel the rate switch application, then it 
would be right that it all be unwound, and Mr G and Mrs Fs mortgage be transferred back as 
if the rate change hadnt taken effect. But as Im satisfied Clydesdale didnt do anything 
wrong, for all the reasons given, then there are no grounds for me to make any order or 
award.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr G and Mrs F to accept or reject my decision before 5 March 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman