DRN-3292043
The complaint
Miss S complains about the additional interest charges proposed by Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc 
in relation to her application for a COVID payment deferral on her loan with them
What happened
In or around October 2019, Miss S applied to Hitachi for a loan of £15,000. Hitachi accepted 
her application and agreed to provide the loan with 60 monthly repayments of £341.91.
Miss S contacted Hitachi toward the end of March 2020 to ask for help, as her income was 
being impacted by the effects of the global pandemic. Hitachi confirmed they could provide 
breathing space and agreed to move back the date of her monthly payments from the 
beginning of the month to the end. They confirmed her next payment would fall due on 30 
April 2020. They asked Miss S to contact them again if she was still experiencing difficulties.
Miss S contacted Hitachi again around mid-May 2020. Shed not been able to work due to 
restrictions imposed as a result of the global pandemic. Hitachi said they were working on a 
solution to comply with guidance issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). They 
expected to be able to offer a payment holiday but hadnt finalised how this would be done. 
They agreed to place Miss Ss loan on hold. Hitachi said interest would continue to accrue 
but no charges would be incurred, and no collections activity would commence. They also 
confirmed this wouldnt impact Miss Ss credit file. Hitachi suggested Miss S cancel her 
direct debit in the meantime.
Miss S contacted Hitachi again in early June. Her repayment direct debit had been claimed. 
She thought she had a repayment holiday. She thought they hadnt told her to cancel the 
direct debit. So, Hitachi agreed to arrange a refund of the repayment.
At the beginning of July, Hitachi sent Miss S a letter offering to vary her loan agreement to 
include a three-month repayment holiday. They said Miss Ss repayments would remain 
unchanged but, the payment holiday would result in additional interest of £1,025.73 being 
applied to the loan. Hitachi asked Miss S to return a signed copy of the loan variation within 
21 days, should she wish to accept it.
Miss S called Hitachi around mid-July. She wasnt happy with the additional interest 
proposed by Hitachi and asked for an explanation and details of any calculations. As Hitachi 
couldnt immediately answer her questions, Miss S made a complaint.
Over the following weeks, Hitachi continued to investigate Miss Ss complaint. They also 
tried to explain how the additional interest had been calculated. But Miss S wasnt happy 
with their explanations and insisted they provide detailed calculations. 
In the meantime, Miss Ss repayments were suspended but Miss S hadnt returned the 
signed loan variation to Hitachi. As a result, Miss Ss loan fell into arrears. Hitachi said theyd 
provide four weeks to repay each missed payment without it impacting on Miss Ss credit file. 
Miss S had three repayments outstanding, so Hitachi said theyd allow her 12 weeks to bring 
payments up to date. They agreed to give Miss S until the end of October, after which her 
normal repayments would resume. Hitachi wrote to Miss S with their response to her 
complaint and included details of the arrangement theyd agreed with her.
Miss S maintained payments under the agreement. But at the end of October, her loan still, 
showed one months arrears. Hitachi said this related to the June 2020 payment which had 
been refunded. They hadnt taken this into account. So, they agreed a further month for Miss 
S to bring payments up to date. But Miss S still wasnt receiving an income due to 
restrictions under the global pandemic. 
Hitachi considered various options. They agreed a COVID payment deferral wasnt 
appropriate as Miss S wasnt happy with the additional interest calculations. They also 
thought that 30 days breathing space wouldnt be appropriate as once payments were 
brought up to date, Miss S would have 30 days before her next payment anyway. Miss S 
didnt want to take a reduced payment plan as this would impact upon her credit file. She 
wanted time to research and consider her options.
Miss S contacted Hitachi again at the end of January 2021. She said, under the FCAs 
guidelines, Hitachi werent permitted to add interest onto her agreement for a payment 
holiday. She also said Hitachi should treat her situation with forbearance. Miss S still wanted 
a payment holiday but without the additional interest charges. 
Later in February 2021, Miss S put her complaint to Hitachi in a letter. She also asked this 
service to investigate her complaint. 
One of our adjudicators investigated Miss Ss complaint. She didnt agree Hitachi had 
treated Miss S unfairly or done anything wrong. Miss S didnt agree with our adjudicators 
findings. So, as an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders on 2 April 2020 which 
explained what it expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising out 
of the global pandemic. It provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. 
The FCA also said that firms should ensure that there is no negative impact on the 
consumers credit file because of the payment deferral.
The FCA said firms would be entitled to charge a reasonable rate of interest where a 
customer requests a temporary payment freeze. In the event that a customer requires full 
forbearance that interest should be waived.
At the outset, I think its important to understand the difference between the FCAs proposals 
for temporary financial relief where impacted by the pandemic, and situations where full 
forbearance is required.
The FCAs proposals were designed to provide temporary relief. Its generally accepted that 
this would only apply in a situation where any impact is expected to be short term. So, it 
would be reasonable to expect the consumers circumstances to have improved by the end 
of the deferral period. Further guidance issued by the FCA on 1 July 2020 extended these 
measures, and where consumers were still struggling due to the global pandemic, 
businesses were advised to freeze or reduce their payments for a further three months. So, 
in practice, this could cover situations where the likely impact could last up to six months.
The FCAs credit sourcebook (CONC) provides rules and guidance for situations where a 
consumer is experiencing financial difficulty. These rules are distinct and separate from the 
FCAs COVID payment deferral guidance and generally apply where any difficulties are 
considered to be more long term or serious by nature. CONC 7 includes the following:Lenders should consider consumers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and 
due consideration. Examples include:
Suspending, waiving or cancelling any further interest or charges
Allowing arrears to be deferred where immediate payment could cause payments 
to be unsustainable or where the term would not be increased excessively
Accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow the 
consumer to recover from unexpected reduction in income
One of the main differences between the COVID deferral guidance and forbearance relates 
to the information reported to the credit reference agencies (CRAs). Where forbearance is 
offered under CONC 7, any agreements, arrears or breaches would still need to be reported 
to the CRAs. These obligations are set by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). The 
COVID payment deferral scheme explicitly states that missed payments should not be 
reported.
Having considered Miss Ss concerns, I think Hitachi were entitled to calculate and charge 
any additional interest that may accrue as a result of providing a payment deferral. The FCA 
confirms this in their guidance. So, I cant fairly say theyd done anything wrong here.
Miss S has also questioned the amount of interest Hitachi calculated to be added to her loan 
under a payment deferral. Hitachi have provided details of how this is calculated. In making 
the calculation, two factors needed to be considered:
1. In March 2020, Miss Ss repayment date was changed from the first to the last day of 
each month. So, for April, this added an additional 30 days between the previous and 
next expected payment.
2. Under a payment deferral, no payments would be made for May, June and July 
2020.
The effect of these variations isnt just for the months impacted. Deferral of payments means 
that Miss Ss loan would run for longer than was originally agreed in order to catch these up. 
Because the loan was still relatively new, this means any additional interest would accrue 
throughout the full remaining term of the loan  not just the deferred period. So, any 
additional interest would be calculated starting with the full amount owed at the time any 
deferral is agreed, reducing thereafter. The interest effect is also compounded (i.e. the 
additional interest, in turn, attracts further interest over the loan term). 
Ive taken the opportunity to review Hitachis calculations based upon the information theyve 
provided and that contained within the loan agreement. And I think their calculations appear 
to be fair and reasonable.
I understand Miss S may disagree, but I cant reasonably conclude that Hitachi have made a 
mistake, or that theyve treated Miss S unfairly here. I appreciate Miss S will be 
disappointed, but Im unable to uphold her complaint. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman