DRN-4344282
The complaint
Mr B complains that Harbour Rock Capital Limited (HRCL) failed to provide him with timely 
advice on the transfer of his pension benefits to a new pension plan.
What happened
Mr B received his advice from Portafina Investment Management Limited. However recently 
that firm has changed its name to Harbour Rock Capital. So in this decision, given its legally 
binding nature, it is appropriate that I simply refer to HRCL rather than Portafina as the name 
of the business that provided the advice to Mr B.
Mr B held pension savings across four separate pension plans. Three of those plans were 
defined contribution schemes. But one of Mr Bs pensions, an occupational pension scheme 
(OPS) relating to a job he left in 2008, would provide him with defined benefits when he 
retired. Mr B decided he wished to consolidate his pension plans so he could take a lump 
sum withdrawal to allow the repayment of his mortgage and to allow him to move overseas. 
He asked HRCL for its advice in achieving those objectives in February 2022.
Immediately following their initial meeting, HRCL asked Mr Bs pension providers for 
information about the value of his pension savings. In relation to the defined benefits, HRCL 
was sent the amount of a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) that was guaranteed for a 
period of three months as is normal.
HRCL accepts that a backlog of work meant there were some delays in completing the 
analysis required to provide its advice to Mr B. But it also says some delays were caused by 
the pension providers not sending all the information that had been requested. By the time 
HRCL had completed its analysis the CETV guarantee had expired.
HRCL advised, in an abridged advice report, that Mr B should leave his defined benefit 
pension with the existing provider. But Mr B didnt agree and asked for a full advice report to 
be produced, and to be treated as an insistent client. So HRCL issued a full advice report to 
Mr B. In that report it told Mr B that his CETV had expired and a new quotation would need 
to be requested from the pension provider.
Mr B completed the necessary processes for HRCL to treat him as an insistent client. It then 
asked the OPS to provide an updated CETV. But due to the economic circumstances at that 
time the new CETV provided in November 2022 had fallen significantly from the one 
provided the previous February. But Mr B still decided to procced and transferred all his 
pension savings into a new pension plan. I understand that he has subsequently withdrawn 
those pension savings and now holds the cash in his bank account.
When Mr B complained to HRCL it accepted that it hadnt progressed his transfer as quickly 
as it should  it said it had caused a delay of 54 days. But it didnt think that, even if no 
delays had been caused by the firm, Mr B would have been in a position to accept the 
original CETV. It offered Mr B £500 for the inconvenience hed been caused. And HRCL also 
thought that its communication with Mr B had fallen short of what he might expect. So it 
offered him a further £250 in that regard. Mr B didnt accept those offers and brought his 
complaint to us.
Mr Bs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the delay 
caused by HRCL had been longer  he calculated the delay to be 77 business days. And he 
thought that HRCL needed to determine whether the extended delay had caused Mr B to 
lose out. He said that the compensation HRCL had offered Mr B for his inconvenience was 
reasonable, so he also asked for that to be paid.
HRCL didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr B accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr B and by HRCL. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
In his complaint, Mr B isnt expressing any concerns about the advice he was given to 
transfer his pension savings. In fact, as Ive explained part of the advice was to not transfer 
his defined benefits. So in this decision I will not be considering whether the advice Mr B 
received was suitable. I will only be looking at the time it took HRCL to provide that advice to 
him.
There seems little doubt that the transfer of Mr Bs pension savings to the new provider was 
complex. He held his pension savings with four different providers, and had a mix of 
guaranteed and cash benefits. The defined benefits that Mr B held were in excess of 
£30,000 so he was required under the relevant legislation to take regulated advice before 
those benefits could be transferred. So it wouldnt be surprising that the transfer advice took 
an extended period of time to be completed.
As I have said earlier, HRCL has accepted that it caused a delay to the transfer of Mr Bs 
pension savings due to work backlogs that it had in its teams. But I think it reasonable that 
I form my own opinion as to the length of those delays. So Ive looked carefully at the actions 
that HRCL took, and the information it says it needed in order to complete its advice to Mr B.
I think it would be first helpful to set out the way in which the advice process was offered to 
Mr B. Initially HRCL agreed to provide Mr B with some abridged advice free of charge. That 
advice could provide just two outcomes  either Mr B would be told that HRCL didnt think a 
transfer was suitable for his circumstances, or he would need to request, and pay a fee for, 
a full advice report in order to proceed with a transfer.The abridged advice report told Mr B that HRCL didnt recommend a transfer of his defined 
benefits from the OPS. But it did recommend that he transfer his pension benefits from the 
other three plans. As Ive said earlier, Mr B rejected that initial advice and asked that a full 
advice report be provided looking at the transfer of all four plans. So the provision of the two 
advice reports, abridged and full, reasonably added some additional time to HRCLs 
process.
I think it was reasonable that, in order to provide the advice to Mr B, HRCL considered 
information from all four pension plans. It wouldnt have been sufficient to consider each plan 
in isolation. So I think it is fair that all the information from each plan needed to have been 
received before any analysis could proceed.
But having looked at the information that HRCL requested, and in particular the information 
HRCL says was delayed, Im not satisfied that the analysis took place at the earliest 
opportunity, even allowing for the delays that HRCL has already identified.
HRCL says that it asked each of the three defined contribution providers to send information 
about the performance of Mr Bs pension savings over the past five years, broken down by 
the individual funds into which his monies were invested. It says that information was 
particularly relevant for one of the providers as it offered Mr B the option to place his pension 
savings into a drawdown arrangement directly with that firm. It says the information it 
received didnt cover one of the investment funds in which Mr B had previously held his 
pension investments. So it says it needed to wait an extended period of time for that 
information to be sent.
Ive thought carefully about the importance of the information that HRCL says it needed. 
Mr B had made it clear to HRCL that he had no intention of using his pension savings to 
provide an income - he wanted to take an immediate lump sum withdrawal. And at the time 
the information was requested Mr B had actually moved all his pension savings out of the 
fund for which performance data was missing. I also think it likely that this information, had it 
been critical to HRCLs analysis, could have been sourced independently rather than waiting 
for a response from the pension provider. So I think seeking that information introduced an 
additional delay for which HRCL should be considered responsible.
So, like our investigator, Im satisfied that HRCL held sufficient information to provide its 
advice to Mr B by 9 March 2022. But HRCL didnt start its analysis for Mr B until 28 June. 
That is a delay of 111 days. So I think it reasonable that HRCL should consider whether that 
extended delay has caused Mr B to lose out. 
Ive looked at the remainder of the time that was taken for the advice process to be 
completed. Whilst that period of time was no doubt prolonged, I havent seen anything to 
suggest (other than the very short additional delay I mention below) that HRCL failed to 
progress matters in a reasonable time.
From the point at which it had all the information it needed to provide its advice to Mr B, 
HRCL first needed to complete the abridged advice process. And then, following Mr Bs 
rejection of that advice and request to be treated as an insistent client, HRCL needed to 
complete a full advice report and discuss its contents with Mr B.
I think it was reasonable, if it were to treat Mr B as an insistent client, that HRCL took steps 
to document that it had explained the advice to Mr B and that he still wished to transfer his 
pension savings from the OPS. And, in line with industry best practice, HRCL asked Mr B to 
complete an explanation of his reasons for that decision in his own words, and handwriting. 
That might assist with the defence of any complaint that Mr B had been coerced into making 
the transfer, or hadnt fully understood the advice hed been given. And gathering that information takes longer than would be the case for a simple acceptance of the advice being 
provided.
After Mr B had completed the required documentation it appears that HRCL took around 
11 business days to issue its final report to him. I think HRCL, in line with what appear to be 
its normal standards, might have expected that to happen a little sooner. So Im going to add 
a further day here to the delays Ive mentioned above.
Mr B needed to provide some final information to HRCL before it could proceed. Once he 
had sent that information to the firm, it started the process of requesting the transfer of his 
pension savings from the four providers. Whilst that process again took some time I can see 
that HRCL regularly chased the other providers for updates. I dont think any delays here 
were as a result of something that HRCL did wrong.
I think it reasonable, when considering whether Mr B has lost out, to apply the delays I have 
set out above to the actual timetable that took place. I can see that, as part of the transfer 
activities, HRCL needed to request a new CETV from the OPS since the original guarantee 
had expired. That CETV was requested on 25 October 2022. So, had the 112 days of delay 
I have set out above not occurred, I think HRCL would have been in a position to proceed on 
5 July 2022. That is still some way after the expiry of the original guarantee (on 24 May). So 
Im not persuaded that HRCLs unreasonable delays are the reason that Mr B failed to 
receive the guaranteed CETV.
But it is possible that, had the new CETV been requested in July 2022, rather than October, 
its value would have been higher. And similar differences in value might have arisen with the 
remainder of Mr Bs transferred pension savings. So I think it is necessary for HRCL to go 
further than the simple payment for Mr Bs inconvenience that it offered. As I set out below 
I direct that HRCL should liaise with the four other pension providers to determine whether 
the transfer values Mr B would have received had the transfer requests been made 112 days 
earlier would have been higher.
There is no doubt that the matters forming this complaint have caused a great deal of 
inconvenience to Mr B, at a time he was looking to utilise the pension savings he had built 
up over his working lifetime. I can see that HRCL has acknowledged that inconvenience and 
offered Mr B a total payment of £750. In the circumstances here I think that is a fair offer, so 
I will also be directing that amount be paid to Mr B as additional compensation, if it hasnt 
already been paid.
Putting things right
Mr B has told us that he transferred all his pension savings into a new pension plan following 
the advice from HRCL. And he says he has subsequently encashed all those pension 
savings and now holds them as cash. I am satisfied that the transfers of the pension savings 
were each delayed by a period of 112 days due to HRCLs failings. So to put things right 
HRCL should do the following;
For the defined benefits
HRCL should request, from the OPS administrator, details of what the CETV for 
Mr Bs pension savings would have been had it been requested 112 days earlier than 
it was. HRCL should determine the date at which the transfer amount would have been paid 
to Mr Bs recipient pension plan on the basis that the application to transfer was 
submitted to the trustees 112 days earlier than it was. It may use the actual amount 
of time it took the OPS administrator to pay the transfer amount after the application 
to transfer had been submitted.
For the other benefits 
HRCL should request, from the pension providers, details of what the transfer values 
for Mr Bs pension savings would have been had they been requested 112 days 
earlier than they were. 
HRCL should determine the dates at which the transfer amounts would have been 
paid to Mr Bs recipient pension plan on the basis that the applications to transfer 
were submitted to the providers 112 days earlier than they were. It may use the 
actual amount of time it took the providers to pay the transfer amounts after the 
applications to transfer had been submitted.
Investment performance
HRCL should calculate, assuming that Mr Bs pension savings were invested in the 
new plan immediately on the day they would have been received and using the same 
investment approach, what their notional value would have been at the point Mr B 
encashed his new pension plan.
If that amount is greater than the encashment amount Mr B received he has lost out, 
and needs to be paid compensation.
HRCL should calculate the encashment loss suffered by Mr B by applying the same 
income tax treatment to the additional amount as was applied to Mr Bs original 
encashment, including any consideration of additional tax-free income that could 
have been received. But to be clear, any reduction for taxation is only notional and 
will not result in any payment to HMRC that might be reclaimable by Mr B.
Since encashment Mr B has been deprived of the use of the additional monies. So 
HRCL should add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to the compensation 
calculated above from the date of the original encashment to the date of settlement. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires HRCL to take off tax from this interest. HRCL must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
HRCL should additionally, unless it has already done so, pay the £750 compensation it has 
already offered to Mr B for the inconvenience hes been caused. That payment should be 
made regardless of whether any compensation is calculated above as being due.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Harbour Rock Capital Limited to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Paul ReillyOmbudsman