DRN-2242198
The complaint
Mr R complains about Revolut Ltds decision to review, block and subsequently close his 
account. He says this caused him severe financial difficulty and health problems. Mr R would 
like compensation.
What happened
In March 2020, Revolut blocked Mr Rs account while they carried out a review. As part of 
the review, Revolut asked Mr R questions about previous transfers hed made and asked 
him to provide some documentation such as identification documents and tax statements. Mr 
R says he couldnt supply everything Revolut had asked for because his accountant was in 
hospital. Because Mr R couldnt provide the requested information, his account remained 
blocked and he couldnt access his money.
Mr R said his benefit payments were paid into this account and he couldnt access it. He also 
said his friend tried to send him some money but couldnt. Mr R says this caused him a lot of 
financial problems as he needed the money to care for and feed his children.
In May 2020, Revolut made the decision to close Mr Rs account and return the funds to the 
original source. They also confirmed the account didnt hold any money which originated 
from Mr Rs benefit payments. The balance of the account when it was blocked and closed 
was around £27.
Mr R complained to our service. The investigator didnt think Revolut had acted 
unreasonably. She said they were entitled to carry out a review and she didnt think thered 
been any unnecessary delays. Mr R disagreed. He remained unhappy that Revolut left him 
without money so he couldnt care for his family. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator for broadly the same reasons. Ive explained 
further below.
The review and block
Revolut are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and existing 
relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  either in full or 
partially while they carry out their review. 
Having looked at whats happened, Im satisfied Revolut was complying with their legal and 
regulatory obligations when they reviewed Mr Rs account. So, I cant fairly say theyve done 
anything wrong. I appreciate Revolut didnt tell Mr R about the review  but theyre not 
obliged to.
Ive looked at the time Revolut took to review things. I understand the account was initially 
blocked around 16 March 2020, and it was completed by 15 May 2020. During this time, Ive 
seen that Revolut asked Mr R questions about payments relating to Mr Rs account and 
asked for documentation such as identity documents and tax statements. Because of that, I 
think they were being proactive in their review. 
Ive seen some screenshot conversations between Mr R and Revolut, and its clear Mr R 
thinks the review took longer than it should. I recognise Mr R was left without access to his 
account and I appreciate how worrying this must have been for him  especially as he says 
he wasnt able to care for or feed his family during this time. However, based on the 
evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied Revolut took the appropriate action in the circumstances. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr R has said in relation to not being able to feed his 
children. Wed usually expect a customer to have access to their benefit payments while a 
review is carried out. But Ive seen a copy of Mr Rs statements and Im satisfied he didnt 
have any benefit payments in the account when it was blocked. Therefore, I cant fairly say 
Revolut should have acted differently. Mr R says his Revolut account was his main account 
so while it was blocked, his benefit payments couldnt be paid in. Mr R confirmed he opened 
another account in June 2020 to allow his benefit payments to be credited. I cant fairly hold 
Revolut responsible for the time it took Mr R to open another account and as Im satisfied 
they werent holding any of Mr Rs benefit money, I cant fairly uphold Mr Rs complaint on 
this point alone.
The closure and reasons
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a 
number of reasons, and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same 
as if Mr R decided to stop banking with Revolut, he wouldnt have to explain why. Revolut 
can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if it is in the terms and conditions of 
the account. Revolut have relied on the terms and conditions when closing Mr Rs account. 
This service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial discretion. Revolut exercised 
their right to no longer offer Mr R banking facilities and I've seen nothing to suggest that 
Revolut has made an unfair decision. So, I cant fairly ask them to do anything differently.
The return of the funds
Revolut are entitled to return any remaining funds in an account to the original source. This 
ensures the funds are sent back to the correct person. Thats especially relevant in Mr Rs 
case as he couldnt provide Revolut with the documentation they asked for when reviewing 
his account. 
I appreciate Mr R says he couldnt provide his tax statements because his accountant was in 
hospital. Im sorry to hear this. However, Im satisfied Revolut took the appropriate action 
based on the information they had. 
Overall, I recognise how strongly Mr R feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it was 
a difficult and worrying time. So, I realise Mr R will be disappointed by my decision. But 
overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Revolut have acted unreasonably. So, 
Im not going to ask Revolut to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman