DRN-3490845
The complaint
Mr G complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has unfairly settled a 
claim made on his buildings insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ive only summarised 
events below.
Mr Gs house was damaged following an escape of water in September 2018. Mr G notified 
RSA of the claim and was given information on what was needed to progress this. This 
included providing quotes for the work required and to provide photos of the damage.
Mr G provided the information required in July 2019 and RSA appointed its field assessor to 
manage the claim due to the amount of damage being claimed for. They requested a cause 
of damage report from Mr G but this was delayed following Mr G being involved in an 
accident. The claim wasnt able to be progressed again until September 2020 when Mr G 
contacted RSA for an update. A cause of damage report couldnt be provided but Mr G was 
able to show RSA the damaged pipe as this had been retained.
Work commenced in early 2021 but Mr G was unhappy with the quality of work completed at 
his property. He also feels further damage was caused by the workmen appointed by RSA 
and during the drying process. 
With no agreement on the work that was needed to repair the property back to its pre loss 
state, RSA cash settled Mr Gs claim in August 2021. It paid what it believed it would have 
cost it to repair the damage to Mr Gs property and said this amount could be increased by 
up to 20% upon receipt on invoices to reflect the VAT withheld from the settlement amount.
RSA paid alternative accommodation costs for Mr G from when the work originally started 
but stopped paying this after it made the cash settlement on the claim. 
Our investigator looked at Mr Gs complaint and said that she didnt believe RSA had acted 
unfairly. 
She didnt think it had added any delays to the claim process, despite the claim having been 
ongoing for some time before it was cash settled. She felt the cash settlement amount was 
fair, although she understood Mr G disagreed that RSA had fairly valued his replacement 
kitchen, she wasnt persuaded the valuation of the replacement cost for this applied by RSA 
was unreasonable. She also said that it wasnt clear that all damage was a result of the 
escape of water or pre-existing. And she saw no issues with the service provided during the 
claim handling. Overall, she didnt think RSA needed to do anything else. 
Mr G disagreed. He reiterated points hed made within the complaint including:
That the replacement cost of his kitchen had been provided by the company that 
fitted this before and this far exceeded the cost paid by RSA. He disputed how the 
replacement offered could be said to be of similar quality to his previous kitchen.
He disputes any work had been done to a satisfactory standard by RSAs 
contractors. And the contractors caused additional damage.
The alternative accommodation was suitable when provided but this was only ever 
finalised at very short notice and he often had to source this directly.
He often had to chase for updates from RSA and it was only this that kept him in 
regular contact.
Because Mr G disagreed with our investigators assessment, the complaint has been passed 
to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will be disappointing for Mr G but Ill 
explain why Ive made this decision. Mr G has made a number of complaint points and 
theres a great deal of information provided. Ive considered all of these and mean no 
disrespect if I dont mention all of the points in detail in my decision. Ive instead focused on 
what I consider to be the crux of his complaint.
It is clear from the correspondence that one of Mr Gs primary concerns is the value placed 
on his kitchen which now needs to be replaced after being removed during the strip out 
works. Hes questioned how RSA reached the value it has for this when making its offer.
The policy wording is relevant here as this sets out what RSA expects when a claim is made. 
It explains the requirements placed upon a customer when making a claim and these say, 
together with other details of the claimed item that Mr G may need to provide the following:
-Original purchase receipts, invoices, instructions booklets or photographs
-Purchase dates and location of lost or damaged property 
-For damaged property, confirmation from a suitably qualified expert that the item you 
are claiming for is beyond repair.
RSA accepted after the kitchen had been stripped out that it was beyond repair and agreed 
to cover the cost of a replacement. This was after it initially believed the kitchen could be 
removed and reinstalled. But I think with an inconsistency in the trades people, RSA has 
taken a reasonable approach to accept the replacement value of the kitchen and that it was 
likely removed by its tradesmen after further damage may have resulted from the drying 
process and the property being empty during this period.
Mr G hasnt been able to provide the invoice for his original kitchen to confirm the details of 
this, nor has he been able to confirm the date that it was purchased and installed before. 
Instead he has provided a quote for what he says is a like for like replacement from the 
company that originally fitted the kitchen. The cost of this is almost double the amount 
allocated by RSA for the kitchen replacement within its cash settlement and he doesnt think 
this is fair. 
RSA makes it clear that when it makes a cash settlement on a claim the cost of this will not exceed the cost that it would have incurred in relation to replacing the item had it been able 
to do this. Ive included the relevant policy wording below:
Where we can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier but agree to pay our 
customer a cash settlement, then payment will normally not exceed the amount we would 
have to pay our preferred supplied.
As Mr G hasnt been able to show what the actual cost of his previous kitchen was or 
confirm that the quoted new kitchen is a like for like replacement for this, I think its fair that 
RSA has assessed what it could offer as a suitable replacement. A cash settlement has 
been paid on his claim and RSA is entitled to pay what it would have cost it, with its 
preferred suppliers, to repair or replace damaged items. I appreciate Mr G doesnt agree this 
meets his needs but I dont think RSA has acted unfairly when settling Mr Gs claim as it has. 
Other repair works
Mr G has complained about the quality of the work that was carried out in his property and 
that this was substandard. This is one of the primary reasons why he says he decided to 
stop the work as hed lost trust in the contractors and RSA. Hes provided a large number of 
photographs and videos to demonstrate what he feels is poor workmanship.
The photos and videos do show that Mr Gs house is not complete and more work is 
needed. But this isnt unexpected when the work was stopped soon after it had started and 
its not persuasive of previous works being completed to a poor standard  I have to bear in 
mind the work wasnt allowed to have been completed. Mr G hasnt provided anything to 
show that work was carried out which didnt comply with building regulations and with it not 
being completed to date, its difficult to say whether, once completed, it would have been  
even if there was concerns with how the job was started.
It was explained to Mr G when the claim was being progressed by RSA and work completed 
that some of what he wanted to do was outside of the scope of the claim. Hed hoped to 
replace his bath with a shower tray but the internal plumbing meant this alteration required 
more work than simply replacing or repairing the bath. And his plans for a different floor in 
the kitchen would have been more expensive than a like for like replacement and so it was 
made clear hed need to pay more if he wanted to continue with these choices. But ultimately 
he decided he didnt want RSA or its contractors to complete the work and it was stopped 
soon after it started.
RSA has made reductions from the original scope of works and the cash settlement paid 
reflects what was done. I think this is fair and the remainder of the settlement represents 
what it would have cost RSA to repair the damage caused by the escape of water. 
The amount paid to Mr G can be increased by a further 20% upon receipt of invoices to 
show this additional cost was incurred. But to date, as far as Im aware, no repair works have 
been completed or invoices submitted to RSA to consider this additional payment. So 
without these, I dont think RSA needs to pay anything else on the claim at this point.
Alternative accommodation and updates
Our investigator covered of the alternative accommodation points in some detail. She felt 
overall that RSA had acted fairly when providing Mr G with accommodation when his home 
was being repaired. And that it increased the time it was willing to cover the cost of this when 
the unexpected delays happened outside of its control.
Mr G feels he had to chase for updates on both the works being completed and his alternative accommodation and that the service here wasnt acceptable.
I can see from the contact notes that there were times when RSA asked if Mr G was able to 
source accommodation that he was happy with. I appreciate this wasnt easy especially as 
availability was difficult following the pandemic, but I dont think it was unreasonable to ask 
Mr G to do this. RSA agreed to cover the cost of the accommodation found and although I 
think it could have been helpful to agree a longer term at the start, its intention to progress 
the claim promptly was indicative of it expecting to not need this. 
There was periods of inactivity at the start of the claim and few updates were provided by 
RSA to Mr G. But a lot of these delays were as a result of updates not being provided by 
Mr G to RSA and due to his period of sickness following his accident. Once it was in a 
position to be progressed, Ive not seen anything to suggest that RSA acted unfairly or failed 
to keep Mr G updated on its position or the claims progress. 
Overall, Ive not seen anything within the claims handling that indicates to me that RSA now 
needs to do anything else in relation to this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint against Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman