DRN-3536677
The complaint
Mr L has complained about advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP 
(Portal) to transfer four pension plans he held with other providers to a Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP). The funds within the SIPP were then used to invest in several 
unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS).
Mr L is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading the decision Ill refer to 
all representations as being made by Mr L.
What happened
Mr L was introduced to Portal in 2014 after hed been in contact with another business, 
from here on referred to as Firm C.  At the time, Firm C was an appointed representative 
(AR) of a regulated business, Firm S. Firm S was authorised by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) to provide investment advice, but neither it, nor Firm C were permitted to 
provide pension transfer advice. Portal had an established business arrangement with 
Firm C, whereby Portal would provide pension transfer advice before referring the client to 
Firm C for investment advice on the transferred funds, and this arrangement was followed 
for Mr L.
At the time the fact-find was completed, Mr L was 51 years old, married and living in a 
property he owned but still had an existing mortgage of £70,000. He had a 17-year-old 
dependent child. He earned approximately £24,000 per annum, had cash savings of 
£8,000 and no other investments. His desired retirement age was recorded as 63 in the 
fact-find and his attitude to risk (ATR) was recorded as balanced.
It was noted Mr L held four existing pension plans:
A personal pension plan (PPP) with £7,622 held in a managed fund. The plan is 
provided by W.
A Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) with £6,616 held in a 
managed fund. The plan is also provided by W.
A group Stakeholder Pension Plan (SPP) with £12,241 held in a managed fund. 
The plan is provided by R.
A section 32 buy-out plan with a value of £83,132 with a Guaranteed Minimum 
Pension (GMP) of £3,172 at age 65. This was split between a managed fund and a 
with profits fund. The plan is provided by L.
Portal noted that Mr Ls objectives were:
To consolidate his pension plans into one;
To take tax free cash at 55;
To benefit from a potentially higher investment performance;
To move to a cheaper scheme;
To have access to a greater investment choice; and
To be able to pass benefits to his family.
Portal sent Mr L a suitability report dated 21 April 2015. It recommend that Mr L 
transfer his existing pensions into a new SIPP. It also said that the investment 
advice would be provided to him by Firm C.
The final transfer value of the combined pensions was £110,144.38. The total 
amount was transferred from the various providers to the SIPP between May and 
July 2015.
Firm C invested a total of £61,500 in the following UCIS:
Brisa Investments  £6,900
Biomass Investments  £8,500
Lakeview UK Investments  £8,500
Motion Picture Global  £8,500
Strategic Residential  £8,500
Tambaba Investments  £6,900
A small sum was left in cash to cover ongoing fees and the remainder of the pension 
was allocated to regulated investment funds.
After becoming aware that his pension funds had been invested in high-risk, 
unregulated funds, which had now lost their value, Mr L complained to the FSCS 
about the investments recommended by Firm C. However, his claim was rejected  
he was directed to complain to Portal as it had recommended he transfer his 
pensions to the SIPP.
In June 2019, Mr L complained to Portal that the advice to transfer his pensions 
was unsuitable for him. He said Portal failed to obtain sufficient information to 
provide suitable advice. He said his ATR was categorised incorrectly as he didnt 
want to take any unnecessary risks. Overall, he said the advice was not in his best 
interests.
Portal didnt agree. It said it had thoroughly investigated Mr Ls circumstances before 
giving the advice. It said Mr Ls main objective was to be able to access TFC at age 
55 and to consolidate his pensions into one more manageable and accessible 
platform and this meant the SIPP was suitable. Portal said it had used a reliable 
profiling tool to ascertain Mr Ls balanced ATR. Portal said Firm C was responsible 
for any investment advice and had forwarded the complaint to them. Unhappy with 
this response, Mr L referred his complaint to our service.
An investigator considered the complaint and recommended it be upheld. 
The investigator added that although Firm C were recommending the investments, 
Portal still should have considered these when advising on the transfer, as per the 
regulators update of 2013. He said this would have alerted Portal to Firm Cs 
intention to recommend investing in UCIS. The investigator also didnt think Mr L had 
a balanced ATR and believed that a cautious ATR rating was more appropriate 
given his situation. Based on this, he felt the investments selected were too risky for 
Mr Ls ATR and that Portal had a responsibility to advise him of this.
With regards to the Section 32 transfer, our investigator noted that a critical yield of 
3.2% was required to match the benefits the Section 32 plan offered at retirement. 
He noted the discount rate in this case was 4.7%. The investigator said this in itself 
didnt mean the transfer was unsuitable. However, some of the other reasons given 
for transferring were lower charges and more investment choice. He said that whilst the section 32 plan couldnt be switched to another fund, it was already held within a 
with- profits fund which met Mr Ls ATR. Part of this plan was in a managed fund, 
which wasnt within Mr Ls ATR but couldve been transferred. He also noted that 
the charges for the section 32 plan were lower than the charges for the SIPP.
When considering the other pension plans, our investigator noted that the annual 
management charges were lower in the SIPP, but the suitability report didnt take 
into account the initial fees or the ongoing advice fees of Firm C. He noted that whilst 
the fund Mr L was currently invested in were higher risk than his ATR, he couldve 
switched each of them. He didnt think that the reasons for the switch justified these 
increased charges. And he said the illustrations provided showed that even if 
mainstream investments had been recommended, it would have been unlikely that 
investment performance couldve been improved to an extent that the transfer to a 
SIPP would be worthwhile.
Lastly, our investigator noted that there was no suggestion in the fact find that taking 
cash at age 55 was a priority for Mr L. And that, whilst having all of the pensions in 
one place mightve been more convenient for Mr L, there was no real benefit in this 
when taking into account the additional costs of the SIPP, and this shouldve been 
explained to Mr L.
Portal didnt agree and responded in detail. In summary, it said Mr Ls priorities were 
to be able to leave the full fund value to his wife and dependent upon his death and 
to consolidate his existing plans. He also liked the idea of taking TFC which the 
section 32 plan may not have been able to offer at retirement. It said Mr L had 
disliked the idea of an annuity to fund his pension income.
Portal maintained that it wasnt responsible for the advice provided by Firm C on 
where to invest the SIPP. It said that it had carried out due diligence on Firm C, 
which included requesting details of the most likely investment strategy envisaged for 
clients like Mr L. Furthermore, it said that the FCA allowed for two advisers to work 
together and advise on different aspects of a transaction.
Lastly, Portal said that any redress should consider any compensation due to Mr L 
from a potential claim about Firm C from the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS).
The investigator did not change his opinion. He maintained the complaint should be 
upheld for the same reasons. But also noted that TFC hadnt been a priority noted in 
the fact find. And he couldnt see anywhere that Mr L had indicated he didnt like the 
idea of an annuity.
Because the parties have been unable to agree, the case was referred to me. 
I issued a provisional decision on 27 May 2022. In this, I set out why I thought the 
complaint should be upheld and what should be done by Portal to put things right. 
I invited all parties to provide any further submissions by 6 June 2022, after which 
time I said I intended to issue a final decision.
Mr L agreed with my decision. Portal didnt provide any further comments. So the 
complaint has been passed back to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr L has accepted my provisional decision, and Portal hasnt provided any further 
submissions. I see no reason to depart from the finding I made within my provisional 
decision. Ill set them out below, again.
Portal advised Mr L to transfer his existing pension plans to a SIPP but says it didnt 
provide any recommendation regarding the investments held within the SIPP, as Firm C 
was meant to provide this. Although the intention was for another regulated firm to advise 
on and arrange Mr Ls underlying SIPP investments, I dont think that meant Portals 
responsibilities ended once the SIPP was set up, the funds transferred, and the money 
then made available for investment. I believe that as Mr Ls financial adviser, Portal still 
had a duty to ensure the overall transaction was suitable, notwithstanding that another 
regulated firm was going to be involved. Suitable advice couldnt, in my view, be given 
without thinking about the intended investment.
The regulators position
Having thought carefully about what happened here, I dont think Portals advice to 
transfer was suitable. And I dont think it was right to try to limit its advice in the way it 
sought to. At the time of the advice the regulator had made its view clear that it 
considered in order to suitably advise on pension transfers and pension switches, a firm 
needed to consider the suitability of the underlying investments to be held in it.
The regulators position was evident in its 2013 alert where it said:
Financial advisers () are under the mistaken impression () they do not have to 
consider the unregulated investment as part of their advice to invest in the SIPP and that 
they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect.
The [regulators] view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a 
product which is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other 
wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper 
and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes. It should be 
particularly clear to financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension 
transfer in implementing a wider investment strategy, the advice on the pension transfer 
must take account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating ()
If you give regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in 
unregulated items, you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the 
regulated elements.
A further alert from the regulator in April 2014 stated:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will () 
transfer () to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then the suitability of the 
underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the customer. If the 
underlying investment is not suitable (), then the overall advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be 
held within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer () at all as it 
will not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.The failings outlined in this alert are unacceptable and amount to conduct that falls well 
short of firms obligations under our Principles for Businesses and Conduct of Business 
rules. In particular, we are reminding firms that they must conduct their business with 
integrity (Principle 1), due skill, care and diligence (Principle 2) and must pay due regard 
to the interests of their customers and treat them fairly (Principle 6).
Portal says that this alert was specific to situations where the other firm that made the 
investment recommendations for the underlying assets of the SIPP was an unregulated 
introducer. It believes this distinguishes the circumstances of Mr Ls transaction from 
the scenario that the alert was aimed at, and as a result absolved it from its duty to 
assess the overall suitability of the proposed investments. Whilst Ive given that 
possibility careful thought, I dont agree that the alert was limited to those very specific 
circumstances.
I can see that the 2013 alert makes it clear that suitable investment advice generally 
requires consideration of the other investments held by the customer, as well as the 
suitability of the overall proposition when advice is given on a product that is a vehicle for 
investment in other products (such as the SIPP in Mr Ls case). It further refers to the 
broadly applicable rules and guidance that ensure that in all instances of advice, a firm 
must first take time to familiarise itself with the wider investment and financial 
circumstances. In saying that, I dont think the FCA intended that in pension switch and 
transfer cases, regard to the overall proposition was only required where the introducing 
firm was unregulated, or where the assets contemplated included unregulated 
investments.
In my view, the regulator was indicating that these are standards that have broad 
application to pension switch and transfer advice, but pointing out that it had particular 
concern about cases in which unregulated firms and unregulated products put the 
consumer at risk. I think the 2014 alert supports this view as it clearly refers to what the 
regulator expects advisers to do when providing pension switch or transfer advice more 
generally. So, I think these alerts are relevant to firms in the position of Portal in this case.
Portal appears to have been under the impression that, as it told Mr L it wasnt providing 
any advice on the underlying investments, this enabled it to provide advice on a restricted 
basis. But this wasnt right. It couldnt separate out the two elements. Its advice on the 
suitability of the transfer and switch had to include the suitability of the underlying 
investments. I dont think there was any ambiguity regarding the regulators position on 
the matter.
Both alerts specifically referred to the regulators overarching Principles for Businesses 
(PRIN) and Conduct of Business Rules (COBS), which Portal was subject to. And with 
reference to PRIN and COBS the alerts said a firm would fall short of its obligations 
under these precepts if it didnt familiarise itself with the intended investment strategy 
and that it wouldnt be able to recommend a new product, like a SIPP, without doing 
so.
Under COBS 2.1.2 Portal also couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its duty or liability to 
Mr L under the regulatory system. So, saying it was operating under a limited retainer 
didnt absolve it of its duty of care to ensure the advice it was providing was suitable - 
again, this had to include consideration of how Mr Ls funds would be invested. 
COBS 9.2 required Portal to take reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation 
was suitable for Mr L. To achieve this, COBS 9.2.2R said Portal had to obtain enough 
information from Mr L to ensure its recommendation met his objectives, that he could 
bear the related investment risks consistent with these objectives and that he had the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the 
transaction.
COBS 9.2.2R included the following wording:
(...) The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, 
where relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the 
investment, his preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of 
the investment.
So, as part of the fact-finding process, Portal had to understand Mr Ls objectives and the 
related risks. It wasnt free to ignore how Mr Ls funds were going to be invested 
irrespective of Firm Cs involvement. I consider the underlying investments in the SIPP to 
be inextricably linked to the risks relating to the SIPP, so assessing the risk and suitability 
of a transfer without knowing what Mr L would invest in within the wrapper, doesnt in my 
mind seem reasonably possible.
Like COBS, PRIN formed part of the regulatory framework that existed at the time of 
Portals advice and had to be complied with. Principles 1 (conducting business with 
integrity); 2 (exercising due skill, care and diligence); 6 (having regard for customers 
interests and treating them fairly); 7 (communicating information in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way) and 9 (ensuring the suitability of advice for a customer entitled to rely on 
the firms judgement) are of particular relevance to this case. In addition to what Ive 
outlined above. Ive considered Portals advice with these in mind.
As Portal didnt consider itself responsible for any advice regarding the underlying assets 
of the SIPP it recommended, it says it was unaware of where, further to Firm Cs 
involvement, Mr Ls transferred funds would ultimately be invested. As Firm C was 
regulated and able to provide investment advice with a duty to ensure this was suitable, it 
says it saw no issue with this.
Portal also says that its advisers carried out extensive due diligence on Firm C, 
including background checks on key individuals, its accounts and information about 
previous complaints. It maintains that Portal followed FCA guidelines when only 
advising on the pension transfer by performing the attitude to risk assessment. It said 
Firm C wasnt bound by this assessment and could have recommended any 
investments they thought were suitable for Mr L. Portal says it was satisfied Firm C was 
qualified to provide investment advice and the FCA allows for one regulated firm to 
assess the pension transfer and the other to provide investment advice.
Portal hasnt provided us with evidence of the due diligence it carried out on Firm C in 
connection with this complaint. But even if Portal had carried the general due diligence 
checks it has mentioned, I dont think that satisfies the regulators expectations as set out 
in the alerts. The checks it made on Firm C weren't specific to the investments envisaged 
for Mr L.
Portal also said that it requested details of the investment strategy Firm C was likely to 
deploy for clients such as Mr L, but hasnt said what information it was given in response 
to this request, if anything at all. I havent seen any evidence that further checks were 
made by Portal to satisfy itself that the pension transfer advice it was giving to clients 
was aligned with the investment advice they were receiving from Firm C. The need to do 
so was a necessary part of the suitability assessment carried out by Portal for individual 
clients. But I think it was also a reasonable due diligence requirement brought about by 
the ongoing relationship it had with Firm C. This wouldve highlighted any patterns of 
unsuitable or unaligned advice, which could be identified and addressed.Furthermore, while Portal should have been aware of the general investment strategy 
that Firm C proposed for clients, it also needed to be aware of the specific investment 
portfolio intended for Mr L. Without this information, it would not be in any position to 
assess the suitability of switching his existing pension plans into the SIPP.
I accept that as a result of its AR agreement with Firm S, Firm C was required to give 
suitable advice. However, I dont agree that this negated Portals duty to do the same. 
As Mr Ls appointed financial adviser, it had a significant responsibility to provide suitable 
advice and act in Mr Ls best interests. And as Ive said, this had to include an awareness 
of where Mr Ls funds would be invested.
Portal has argued that the FCA has recently introduced provisions where both firms are 
regulated and that current guidance places the obligation solely on the firm giving the 
investment advice to take into account of any loss of safeguarded benefits on the retail 
clients ability to take on investment risk. But I dont think this applies here. The specific 
guidance it quoted is from COBS 19.1.6A(4)  but this only came into effect in 
October 2018. At the time of the advice, April 2015, COBS 19.1.6 did not provide for this 
scenario. In any event, I think the alerts from 2013 and 2014 were unambiguous that firms 
recommending a transfer had to consider the underlying investments. There was no 
implied exemption where other regulated firms were involved.
The reality is that having followed Portals transfer advice, over 50% of Mr Ls SIPP was 
invested in UCIS. I think the regulators 2010 UCIS findings are relevant here. It said that 
as well as UCIS only being eligible for promotion to certain customers (generally 
sophisticated, high net worth investors), as an example, even when a customer was 
deemed eligible for the promotion of UCIS, suitable advice involved limiting a client's 
exposure to these investments to 3% to 5% of their retirement provision. In Mr Ls case 
over half his SIPP - 58% - was invested in UCIS. I dont think UCIS was suitable for Mr L 
at all, let alone in the proportion invested. Theres nothing to indicate Mr L had the 
requisite knowledge or experience to accept or understand the risks associated with these 
types of investments.
In my view, if Portal had requested information about the proposed investments and 
been advised that Firm C intended to invest over 50% of Mr Ls funds in UCIS, it couldve 
queried this, given how at odds it was with what an appropriate asset allocation for Mr L 
was given his attitude to risk.
I dont agree with Portals assessment of Mr Ls risk rating as balanced and will explain 
why later. However, I think that had appropriate enquiries been made, it wouldve 
become apparent something was wrong with Firms Cs proposal and that the transfer 
was therefore unsuitable and would likely to lead to Mr L being exposed to more risk than 
Portal considered appropriate. I think its likely that, having realised how significantly the 
investments Firm C intended to make differed from those that were likely to be suitable 
for Mr L, Portal couldve taken preventative action or at the very least made Mr L aware 
of the situation so he could, if servicing rights had already been transferred to Firm C, 
sought to take corrective action himself.
Overall, I think Portal needed to satisfy itself that its recommendation was based on the 
investment proposition that Firm C intended for Mr L. It shouldve asked Firm C for the 
specifics of this or, as a minimum, an outline of the proposition. Had it done so, and 
Firm C had given it a clear framework of the proposition, then I wouldve expected Portal 
to have advised Mr L that it couldnt recommend he transfer away from his OPS in those 
circumstances. If Portal had warned Mr L against investing in line with Firm Cs 
proposal, I think its more likely than not that Mr L wouldve listened to it and not gone ahead with the transfer.
In my view, the fact that Portal didnt take sufficient steps to consider the investment 
proposal for Mr L when assessing the suitability of the proposed transfer meant that it 
couldnt reasonably conclude the course of action it recommended was being made on a 
sound basis. And as a result of these shortcomings, it seems to me that Firm C was in 
effect given the freedom and opportunity to do as it wished with how Mr Ls SIPP was 
invested.
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I dont think the suitability of Portals advice turns 
solely on where Mr Ls funds were ultimately invested. Portals recommendation that he 
switch his existing pensions to a SIPP in the first place is an important consideration. 
And were it not for the transfer and Portals incomplete and, in my view, flawed advice 
regarding this, Im not persuaded Mr L wouldve ultimately gone on to invest as he did.
The advice to switch Mr Ls Section 32 Buyout Plan
Mr Ls section 32 plan contained the pension benefits hed gained through an OPS with 
his former employer. According to the documentation provided by L, the section 32 plan 
came with a guaranteed minimum pension (GMP) of £3,172.01 per year. L said it 
guaranteed to pay this to Mr L at age 65. However, Mr Ls normal retirement date was 
age 63. So, L would only be able to pay the GMP at 63 if the underlying fund value 
supported payment of it.
Portal noted in the suitability report that the GMP was £2,956 per year at age 63. 
And its critical yield analysis was based on this figure. Although the difference in 
figures wasnt explained, I think its unlikely to have had much of a difference here.
Transferring out of the section 32 plan would mean that Mr L would lose the security of 
the GMP and the 50% widowers pension. In my opinion, giving up the benefits and 
guarantees available under this plan and subjecting future pension income to the risks 
associated with unpredictable investment returns should only have been done if it could 
be shown that it was clearly in Mr Ls best interests.
The COBS guidance (COBS19.1.6G) at the time of the advice, stated:
When advising a  retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start 
by assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then 
consider a transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
Although the section 32 plan wasnt strictly an OPS (it contained deferred benefits from 
a previous OPS), I think it is reasonable to apply this regulation to the advice provided in 
respect of this plan. This is because the rule is predicated on the fact that defined 
benefit occupational pension schemes contain valuable guaranteed or safeguarded 
benefits. As the section 32 plan provided Mr L with a GMP of £3,172.01 at age 65, it 
also provided guaranteed benefits. Im also mindful that in June 2015, less than two 
months after the suitability report date, and before the transfer of this plan completed, 
this rule was updated to include schemes with safeguarded benefits as follows:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the 
transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
So, the starting point here for Portal in advising on Mr Ls section 32 plan ought to have 
been that a transfer of a plan of this nature wouldnt usually be suitable. And generally, I 
think a transfer will only likely be in the consumers best interests if theres a reasonable 
prospect that the new arrangement will provide better retirement benefits. The transfer will 
also need to be suitable, taking into account the individuals particular circumstances.
At the time of Portals advice Mr L was 51 years old, employed and in good health. 
He was a standard retail investor with 15 years until his normal retirement age and 12 
years from the earliest point he could take the income from the section 32 plan. He owned 
his house with an outstanding interest-only mortgage still on it. He had £8,000 cash 
savings and no investments.
Mr Ls section 32 plan provided a guaranteed minimum income of £3,172.01 per year at 
retirement and could potentially pay more if the underlying fund performed well. 
There was also the potential for Mr L to take TFC if the underlying fund was large enough 
to pay the GMP. So, I think Portal should have recognised the significant benefits 
provided by this plan and proceeded with caution.
Transferring his section 32 plan meant that Mr L would be losing his guarantees and 
instead relying on investment performance from a new scheme. But I dont think his 
situation lent itself to taking such risks. I think it shouldve been clear that while Mr L may 
have been open to taking some risk, he wasnt prepared or able to take a significant 
amount.
Mr L was recorded as having a balanced ATR, but in my view, there is little 
available evidence to support this classification.
Portals report defines balanced investors as having moderate levels of knowledge 
about financial matters and possibly having some experience of investment including 
more risky assets such as equities and bonds. They are willing to take on some 
investment risk with part of their assets if the potential rewards are high enough. But 
Mr L had no recorded investment experience and had cash savings of just £8,000. 
His pensions represented almost all of his of private assets other than his property. 
So, I think he had very little capacity for loss.
Ive reviewed the fact find questions which relate to the level of risk Mr L was willing to 
accept. Whilst Mr L did agree that he found investment matters easy to understand, he 
also indicated he felt uncomfortable about investing the stock market, that he had little 
of experience of investing in stocks and shares. He agreed to the statement that he 
would tend to look for safer options even if it meant lower returns and that he was 
concerned by the volatility of the stock market. Taking all of this into account, I agree 
with the investigator, that Mr L could only accept a cautious level of risk for his 
pensions.
Before providing the recommendation, Portal carried out a transfer valuation analysis 
(TVAS) as a means of comparing the transfer value of the section 32 plan with the 
benefits Mr L would be giving up. As the regulator has made plain, when considering 
whether to make a personal recommendation to transfer away from a defined benefit 
scheme, a firm should not regard a rate of return which may replicate the benefits being 
given up from the defined benefits pension scheme as sufficient in itself (COBS 19.1.7B 
G). In light of that, I think its important to again emphasise that the starting point for the 
transfer advice in this case ought to have been that it was unsuitable. So, I think Portal ought to have made Mr L aware that it was most likely in his best interest to keep his 
section 32 plan.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to 
refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a 
useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably 
achievable when the advice was given in this case.
The investment return (critical yield) required to match the section 32 plan at retirement 
was quoted as 3.2% per year if Mr L took TFC and a reduced pension at age 63. 
This compares with the discount rate of 4.7% per year for 11 years to retirement in this 
case. For further comparison, the regulators assumed future growth rates for personal 
pensions illustrations were 2% (lower); 5% (intermediate); and 8% (higher).
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, 
Mr Ls cautious attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. Although the discount rate 
of 4.7% was higher than the critical yield quoted, Im mindful that Mr Ls cautious ATR 
couldve meant that investing line with that approach produced a lower return, closer to 
the regulators lower growth rate. So, I think there was a real chance that Mr L could 
achieve the same level of benefits or lower. And there would be little point in Mr L giving 
up the guarantees available to him through his section 32 plan only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. With this in mind, I dont think that 
transferring this plan to the SIPP was in Mr Ls best interests as he would be losing a 
guaranteed income, particularly as this plan accounted for the majority of Mr Ls 
retirement provisions.
I have nevertheless considered whether Mr L had any other objectives that meant 
that transferring the benefits held in his section 32 plans was in his best interests.
Having considered the suitability report, I note that Portal stated Mr L wanted to take TFC 
at age 55; move to a cheaper scheme, have access to greater investment choice and 
pass the benefits on to his family.
The charges applicable to the section 32 plan were lower than the SIPP, so transferring 
this plan didnt meet this objective. I also cant see any reason why Mr L wouldve wanted 
to access a wider range of investments; Mr L didnt have the investment knowledge or 
risk appetite to invest in non-mainstream assets. The section 32 plan was split into two 
policies, one of which was invested in a with-profits fund, the other a managed fund. 
Although the with-profits fund wasnt able to be switched, this was already in line with 
Mr Ls cautious risk profile. And while the managed fund fell outside of his risk profile, 
Mr L couldve switched funds for free. So, I dont think this was genuine objective for 
Mr L, rather it was a consequence of the switch.
Portal says that Mr L wanted to take TFC at 55, but I dont think this was explored in any 
meaningful way. On the contrary, the fact-find notes that Mr L didnt consider accessing 
TFC to be a priority. The notes further state that he didnt have any plans to take TFC at 
55, but he thought it would be an advantage to have his funds held in a pension that 
would allow this. While Mr L may have wanted the option to take TFC at 55, he was still 
over three years away from being able to do so. So, in my view, transferring out of the 
section 32 plan when Mr L didnt know whether he wanted to take TFC was premature. 
And doing so simply to have the option of taking TFC didnt outweigh the loss of 
guarantees.The fact-find notes that Mr L wanted to pass his pension fund to his wife in the event of his 
death. Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people 
would like their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death 
benefits on offer through the SIPP was likely an attractive feature to Mr L. But whilst I 
appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr L might have thought it was 
a good idea to transfer his section 32 plan to a SIPP because of this, the priority here was 
to advise Mr L about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Portal explored to what extent 
Mr L was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the section 32 plan were underplayed. 
Mr L was married and so the widowers pension provided by the plan wouldve been 
useful to his spouse if Mr L predeceased her. I dont think Portal made the value of this 
benefit clear enough to Mr L. This was guaranteed  it was not dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in the SIPP was.
Furthermore, Mr L had other pensions (will I address further below). If ensuring an 
amount was set aside for his wife on his death was important to him, he couldve made 
arrangements in respect of these plans. Alternatively, Mr L couldve explored life 
insurance. Ultimately, I dont think the potential for higher death benefits was a good 
enough reason to give up the guarantees attached to the section 32 plan.
Regarding the risks associated with its recommendation, I do accept that Portal 
covered some of these. However, disclosure isnt the same as suitability, and in my 
view Portal shouldnt have recommended the switch of the section 32 plan as it was not 
in Mr Ls best interests and there were no other compelling reasons to do so.
The advice to switch Mr Ls PPP, FSAVC and SPP
Mr L was advised to switch his PPP, FSAVC and SPP, which when switched to the 
SIPP had a total value of £26,564.59. It seems to me that, of Mr Ls objectives, the main 
ones which might be met by these transfers were consolidating his pensions, greater 
investment choice and moving to a cheaper scheme (given that the remainder of his 
objectives would already have likely been met by the existing plans).
As noted above, I do not believe that Mr L had a balanced ATR and should have been 
classed as a cautious, or low risk investor. Mr L did not have a specified type of 
investment he was looking to move his funds into (e.g. overseas funds, specialised 
investments) and there was no stated intention to invest in funds which were only 
available via a SIPP platform. There is no reason to believe the providers he held his 
pensions with, all relatively large and well-known pension firms, would not have an 
appropriate funds if he remained with them. So, I think Portal should have investigated 
whether his needs could have been met within his existing arrangements. In my view, I 
think the benefits held in these pensions could have been switched internally to lower 
risk funds without having to change platforms and incur new charges. So, I dont think 
the SIPP was necessary to meet the objective of wider investment fund choice.
Whilst having the pension plans all in one place mayve been more convenient for Mr L, I 
dont think this in itself is enough to justify the switch of these plans. I say this as Mr L had 
managed previously by having the pensions in separate plans with separate providers. 
And whilst this mayve required slightly more administration when coming to retirement, Id 
expect the benefits to be more significant than just the ease of having all the pensions in 
one place. Furthermore, if Mr L did want to consolidate his plans, he couldve done so closer to retirement when he had a better understanding of his needs.
Mr Ls PPP, FSAVC and SPP were all recorded by Portal as having an AMC of 0.75%. 
Whilst this was 0.25% higher than the SIPP AMC of 0.5%, there are other factors that 
needed to be considered. Portal was charging 3.8% of the total transfer value as an 
upfront fee, plus there would be ongoing advice charges from Firm C. In addition, a 
number of the investments which Mr L was subsequently advised to invest in wouldve 
carried additional charges. Without knowing what these fees were, it wasnt possible for 
Portal to say that Mr L would benefit from lower scheme fees as per his objectives.
Overall, for the reasons Ive just set out, I dont think that the advice to switch the PPP, 
FSAVC and SPP to the SIPP were suitable. I think Mr Ls immediate and genuine 
objectives couldve been met by remaining in these plans and undertaking internal fund 
switches where necessary.
The investment advice
As noted above, the regulators 2013 and 2014 alerts applied to pension switches and 
not just transfers. So, when giving its recommendation Portal needed consider the whole 
of the transaction. That is, it needed to understand the investments envisaged for Mr L 
and determine whether these were suitable for him or not.
I dont think Mr L had a balanced ATR; as I have explained, I think Mr L had a cautious 
ATR given his experience and capacity for loss. In light of this, I dont think investing in 
UCIS was suitable for Mr L at all, let alone in the proportion invested. Theres nothing to 
indicate Mr L had the requisite knowledge or experience to accept or understand the risks 
associated with these types of investments. So, I dont think Portal shouldve 
recommended that Mr L proceed with any aspect of the transaction as it was not suitable 
for him and it wasnt in his best interests.
Ive thought about whether, if hed been correctly advised by Portal, Mr L would have 
gone ahead with the switches anyway. Having carefully considered all the circumstances 
in this case, I dont believe he would. Theres nothing to suggest that he was seriously 
considering moving his pensions prior to being referred to Portal for a pension review. 
It is clear from the available information that he did not have any particular reason to 
switch his existing plans, other than consolidation, which was for purely administrative 
purposes. 
Mr L couldnt access his benefits at the time, and didnt have any concrete plans to do so. 
And he says he didnt want to take any risks with his pension so, I dont think he wouldve 
insisted if Portal had clearly explained why it wasnt in his best interests. And as a 
professional adviser which, unlike Firm C, was authorised to provide transfer advice, 
Portals recommendation wouldve carried significant weight and could, I believe, have 
dissuaded Mr L from proceeding with the switch and subsequent investments.
Alternatively, had Mr L proceeded against such advice, Portal couldve discharged its 
professional responsibility to him appropriately. For example, it couldve treated him as 
an insistent client. However, theres nothing to indicate Mr L wouldve acted against the 
advice he was given.
Overall, I consider that the losses suffered by Mr L are as a result of the unsuitable advice 
provided by Portal. Had it not been for this unsuitable advice, I dont believe Mr L would 
have gone ahead with the switch of his existing pensions, or invested such a large share 
of his fund in UCIS. So, I think Portal is fully responsible for his losses.
I recognise that it can be argued Firm C may have also separately caused some of Mr Ls losses. So, Ive considered whether I should apportion only part of the 
responsibility for compensating the loss to Portal. In the circumstances, though, I think 
holding Portal full responsible for the whole of the loss represents fair compensation. I 
dont accept that anything Firm C did was an intervening act which absolves Portal of its 
responsibility for Mr Ls losses.
I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and Portal were in a business relationship 
in which each firm agreed to provide services that were designed to bring about a single 
outcome for clients - pension-release advice and investment. Because Firm C wasnt 
authorised to provide pension transfer advice, it referred Mr L to Portal. Portal advised 
Mr L to transfer to a SIPP, it set up the SIPP and arranged for his existing pension 
benefits to be transferred to it. I acknowledge that Firm C advised Mr L to invest a 
significant share of his SIPP funds in UCIS. But, as Ive explained, Portals 
understanding that it could reasonably limit its advice to just the transfer and the SIPP 
was wrong; it needed to consider the proposed investments too, even if Firm C was 
advising Mr L on the investments. It was only as a result of Portals involvement that Mr L 
transferred the funds held in his existing pensions to the SIPP. Portals role was pivotal, 
since the eventual investments were fully reliant on the funds being transferred first; if 
that hadnt happened, Mr L couldnt have invested as he did.
Portal has suggested that as Firm C is no longer trading Mr L can complain to the 
FSCS about the advice it gave him.
In terms of the FSCS, I am aware that, as a fund of last resort, the FSCS wont pay 
out on claims where it is aware that another firm was involved in the transaction, and 
it considers that firm might also be responsible for a consumers losses. In Mr Ls 
case, hes told us that the FSCS turned his claim down. So, this means holding Portal 
responsible for only part of the loss could risk leaving Mr L out of pocket. But I think 
its important to point out that Im not saying Portal is wholly responsible for the losses 
simply because Firm S and Firm C are now in liquidation. My starting point as to 
causation is that Portal gave unsuitable advice and it is responsible for the losses 
Mr L suffered in transferring his section 32 plan and switching his other pensions to 
the SIPP and investing as he did. That isnt, to my mind, wrong in law or irrational but 
reflects the facts of the case and my view of the fair and reasonable position. 
So, overall, I think holding Portal fully responsible for the whole of the loss represents 
fair compensation in this case.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding redress is to put Mr L as far as possible in the position hed be in 
now if Portal had given him suitable advice. I think Mr S would have retained his 
existing pension arrangements.
What should Portal do?
To compensate Mr L fairly, Portal must determine the combined fair value of his 
transferred pension benefits as outlined in Step One and Step Two below. If the actual 
value is greater than the combined fair value, no compensation is payable.
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the SIPP at the date of the calculation. 
My aim is to return Mr L to the position he would have been in but for the actions of Portal. 
This is complicated where investments are illiquid (meaning they cannot be readily sold 
on the open market), as their value cant be determined. That appears to be the case here.
To calculate the compensation, Portal should agree an amount with the SIPP provider as 
a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs, and take 
ownership of the investments. If Portal is unable to buy the investments, it should give 
them a nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP 
used in the calculations should include anything Portal has paid into the SIPP and any 
outstanding charges yet to be applied to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, Portal may ask Mr L to provide an undertaking to account to it for the 
net amount of any payment he may receive from the illiquid investments. 
That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. 
Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Portal asks Mr L to 
provide an undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon 
provision of that undertaking.
fair value  step one
If Mr L had been given suitable advice, I think he would have remained in the section 
32 plan.
Portal should determine the notional value of the section 32 plan from L on the basis 
that it had continued in the original funds.
If that isnt available, Portal must use the benchmark shown below.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Transfer 
value of the 
section 32 
planStill exists 
but illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 90 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
If at the date of calculation the cost of securing a future GMP equal to that under the 
section 32 plan exceeds the notional value or other benchmark, Portal must use the cost 
of securing the GMP instead of the notional or other benchmark value as the fair value in 
this step.
The cost of securing the future GMP is to be determined in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated by the FCA in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: 
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
The calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate 
provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ls acceptance of the decision.fair value  step two
Portal must compare the total value of the PPP, FSAVC and SPP transferred to Mr Ls 
SIPP with that of the benchmark shown below to determine the fair value of Mr Ls 
personal pensions if suitable advice had been given.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Combined 
transfer 
value of the 
PPP, 
FSAVC
and SPPStill exists 
but illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 90 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portal 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Any additional sums paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when they were actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income, or other 
payment out of the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value (in respect of any funds 
other than the section-32 plan) at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue 
any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if Portal totals all those payments 
and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
The combined value of the sums produced by the above two steps is the combined 
fair value.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Ls contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the 
calculation of the cost of providing future GMP, which will take into account the impact of 
surrendering the GMP on Mr Ls SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be 
paid into Mr Ls pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr L as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have 
been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely 
income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 
15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. 
The compensation amount must, where possible, be paid to Mr L within 90 days of the 
date Portal receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest 
must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the 
date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that 
it takes Portal to pay Mr L.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above  and so 
any period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation 
is data from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
SIPP Fees
The wrapper only exists because of illiquid investments. In order for the wrapper to be 
closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be 
removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the 
investment, or this is something that Mr L can discuss with the wrapper provider directly. 
But I dont know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Portal 
is unable to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair 
that it pays Mr L an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees 
(calculated using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable 
period for the parties to arrange for the wrapper to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr L wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone 
who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of 
a range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take 
some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr Ls risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr L into that position. It does not 
mean that Mr L would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 
50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a 
reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr L could have 
obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
In addition, Portal should pay Mr L £300 for the upset and concern caused by 
transferring the majority of his retirement provision into a SIPP which was then invested 
in a number of unregulated investments.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Portal Financial Services LLP to pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman