DRN-2440016
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the time it took LEBC Group Limited to set up his annuity. Mr C 
says hes received a smaller annuity because of the delay.  
 
What happened
Mr C completed some documentation including a pension questionnaire at the end of May 
2019 before a telephone discussion with LEBCs adviser on 4 June 2019. 
LEBCs report was sent to Mr C on 9 July 2019. It recorded that Mr C had deferred benefits 
in a former employers defined benefit pension scheme. Hed been offered a CETV (cash 
equivalent transfer value) of £91,327. The CETV was guaranteed until 31 July 2019. LEBC 
recommended that Mr C purchase a lifetime annuity with Canada Life. 
The report set out various annuity options. LEBC recommended that Mr C take tax free cash 
and use the residual fund to buy a level annuity, payable monthly in advance, with a 50% 
spouses pension and a 20 year guarantee period. The report said a joint annuity had been 
recommended despite Mr C having expressed a preference for a single life annuity as the 
difference in income was only £127.08 pa. 
The report said the annuity rate was only guaranteed for 14 working days following any 
change in Canada Lifes annuity rates and so Mr Cs completed paperwork was required as 
soon as possible.
Mr C confirmed he wanted to go ahead. He forwarded the completed documentation to 
LEBC the next day,10 July 2019. LEBC sent the documentation to the ceding scheme and 
Canada Life on 15 July 2019 to start the process of setting up the annuity. 
Canada Life didnt receive the transfer value from Mr Cs former employers scheme until 21 
August 2019. By then Canada Lifes annuity rates had changed. Canada Life told LEBC that 
on 23 August 2019. LEBC informed Mr C but, as Canada Life was still offering the best rate, 
Mr C went ahead with the annuity. 
Mr C later complained to LEBC that thered been a delay in providing advice and the annuity 
rate had fallen. LEBC didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mr C had been given adequate 
warnings that the rate might drop. The timing of when funds were released by a third party 
was outside LEBCs control. It had done all it could. It had processed his application as soon 
as it was received and kept in contact with the ceding and receiving schemes to try to 
expedite matters for Mr C. 
Mr C remained dissatisfied. Amongst other things he said hed had to chase the adviser for 
his recommendation report and hed also chased for updates during the annuity purchase 
process. He said the wording in the report about the annuity rate had been confusing. Hed 
assumed, given hed returned his paperwork on 10 July 2019 and LEBC had passed it on to 
Canada Life on 15 July 2019, that was enough to secure the rate quoted. 
LEBC hadnt told him that annuity rates had fallen. It was only when hed received 
confirmation from Canada Life that the annuity had been set up that hed realised the annuity 
rate had changed. When he queried the lower figures with the adviser, he found out that 
thered been rate changes on 11 and 25 July 2019 and 9 and 12 August 2019. He 
understood that LEBC had no control over rate changes. But, if hed have known rates were 
on a downward spiral, he couldve put things on hold and thought about it again the following 
year. Mr C said hed be referring the matter to us. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. He issued his view on 22 October 
2019 upholding the complaint. In summary he referred to the telephone discussion on 4 
June 2019 during which LEBCs adviser had said Mr C should receive the recommendations 
in about two weeks. Mr C had said he was told the whole process of setting up the annuity 
would be completed in six to eight weeks which was reasonable. But the advisers report 
hadnt been sent to Mr C until 9 July 2019.  
LEBC had said the report wasnt prepared and sent for checking until 14 June 2019. That 
was probably due to the high volume of work LEBC had at the time. And then amendments 
were suggested, including adding Mr Cs wife to the annuity. The investigator said that 
should have been discussed during the call on 4 June 2019.
Once Mr C had confirmed he wanted to go ahead, the process was started reasonably 
promptly. And LEBC had made multiple attempts to chase the ceding scheme and Canada 
Life. But Canada Life didnt receive the funds until 21 August 2019. That wasnt within 
LEBCs control. But it followed that, if LEBCs report had been produced three weeks earlier, 
Canada Life wouldve received the funds on 1 August 2019 and Mr Cs annuity would have 
been secured then and at the then applicable rate.  
Mr C couldnt have got the original rate quoted as Canada Life needed to have received the 
funds by 25 July 2019. But, as Canada Lifes annuity rate had decreased twice since 1 
August 2019, Mr C had got a lower annuity rate than hed have done, but for the delay in 
producing the recommendations. The investigator set out how LEBC needed to compensate 
Mr C for past and future losses. 
LEBC didnt accept the investigators view. LEBC said, having listened to the telephone call 
on 4 June 2019 again, the adviser had said, towards the end of that call, that a report would 
be with Mr C in a few weeks. As that was one of the last things the adviser had said, Mr C 
wouldve remembered that and not expected a report to be produced more quickly. 
LEBC didnt agree that adding Mr Cs wife to the annuity shouldve been discussed on 4 
June 2019. The fact find noted that he wanted to maximise income for him as his wife had a 
defined benefit pension. So a single life annuity was selected. It was only when the report 
was being checked that it was suggested a quotation be obtained to include Mr Cs wife to 
find out what the difference in cost would be. As it was minimal a joint life annuity was 
recommended. When the adviser was discussing things with Mr C the adviser didnt have 
access to the annuity rates so wouldnt have known if it was beneficial to include Mr Cs wife. 
The investigator replied saying hed also listened again to the telephone call. He agreed the 
adviser had said a few weeks. But, earlier in the call, hed also said a couple of weeks so he 
hadnt set clear expectations. Although what hed said later might have stuck with Mr C, a 
similar case could be made for first impressions being the strongest. And it seemed that two 
weeks was what Mr C had taken away from the conversation. And anything longer would be 
an 
unreasonable delay. Producing the final advice report had taken about five weeks. The 
adviser may not have had all the facts at hand on 4 June 2019. But the report should still 
have been sent to Mr C within two weeks.In response, LEBC referred to an email from Mr C on 24 June 2019. Mr C said it had been 
about three weeks since the discussion about his pension options and he asked when he 
could expect to see the advisers report. 
The investigator maintained that, regardless of Mr Cs expectations, two weeks is the longest 
it should reasonably have taken to produce the recommendations. He thought Mr C had 
expected it to take two weeks and it had been fair for him to think that. The investigator said 
hed refer the case to an ombudsman. He also corrected an omission in the redress set out 
in his view and said that interest should be added to the shortfalls on the missed annuity 
payments.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators views and with the reasons he gave. I dont have very much to 
add.
LEBC says that Mr C was warned that annuity rates might drop and that rate changes were 
outside LEBCs control. I accept that. I can see there was some confusion on Mr Cs part 
and he thought (given hed acted as quickly as he could after hed got the advisers report 
and submitted his completed documentation by return) hed done enough to secure the 
annuity rate then offered. 
Unfortunately that wasnt the case. The position can be complicated. Annuity rates will 
change without warning and can change several times in any given period. Where an 
annuity quotation has been issued, annuity providers will usually guarantee that rate for a 
period (here 14 working days) after any rate change. But, to secure the annuity, the annuity 
providers requirements will need to be met in full. In addition to having the necessary 
paperwork, the annuity provider will also need to be in receipt of the funds to purchase the 
annuity. 
Mr Cs suggested that, if hed have known that annuity rates were falling, hed have 
postponed his annuity purchase. As things stood, he felt it was too late not to go ahead, as 
hed already received his tax free cash and his account with Canada Life had been set up. I 
can understand that. But I think it wouldve been open to Mr C to cancel his annuity 
purchase had he really wanted to. So I havent approached the complaint on the basis that 
Mr C wouldnt have gone ahead with the annuity purchase.  
I accept, once Mr C had confirmed he wanted to go ahead and LEBC had received the 
paperwork, the application was processed as quickly as possible. There were delays but 
these were outside of LEBCs control and LEBC did what it could to chase things up. Even if, 
at times, that may have been prompted by Mr C chasing LEBC. 
But the issue is whether there was delay on LEBCs part at the outset and in producing the 
recommendation report. Had things got off to a quicker start, then (and adopting the same 
time frame as actually occurred), the annuity purchase process would have been completed 
earlier and Mr C would have avoided further falls in the annuity rate. 
The report was sent to Mr C on 9 July 2019, some five weeks after the telephone 
consultation on 4 June 2019. I agree with the investigator that was too long.  I dont really think its a question of what Mr Cs expectations were. But, on that matter, if a 
two week period is mentioned, I think Mr C is more likely to have focused on that rather than 
any later and somewhat vaguer references to a few weeks. And I think thats borne out by 
Mr Cs email of 24 June 2019. By then some three weeks had passed. If Mr C was expecting 
the report within a couple of weeks, and I think he was, then that allowed for some slippage 
before he chased it up. 
But the report still took another two weeks to reach Mr C, so some five weeks all in all. LEBC 
knew that any delay could result in Mr C being unable to secure the annuity rate originally 
quoted. LEBCs recommendation letter said that Mr Cs paperwork was required as soon as 
possible. Mr C sent back the documents the next day. But the problem was that by then 
some time had already been lost. 
Ive noted what LEBC has said about changes due to adding Mr Cs wife to the annuity. I 
agree that, during the discussion on 4 June 2019, the adviser wouldnt have known that 
adding a spouses benefit would only make a minimal difference in cost. And often a single 
life annuity gives the best value for money. But, on the other hand, I think the adviser would 
or should have known that would need to be checked out. I dont think the entire process, 
including any checking and amending the advisers proposed recommendations, shouldve 
taken as long as five weeks.
On that basis Im upholding Mr Cs complaint.
  
Putting things right
As to redress I dont think the timescale that the investigator said would have applied but for 
LEBCs initial delay  that Canada Life would have received Mr Cs funds from the ceding 
scheme on 1 August 2019 - is unreasonable. The redress the investigator proposed was fair 
and reasonable too. Ive adopted it here, subject to some minor wording adjustments. 
Fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr C, as far as possible, in the position hed probably be in now if thered 
been no delay in LEBC sending its recommendations. Ive set out below how LEBC should 
calculate and pay redress to Mr C. Id ask LEBC to provide details of its calculations to Mr C 
in a clear and simple format. 
What should LEBC do?
Compensation for future loss
Compare the rate of Mr Cs annuity with that of the annuity he wouldve got if 
Canada Life had received the funds to purchase the annuity on 1 August 2019.
If the rate that wouldve applied on 1 August 2019 is higher, LEBC should, if possible, 
pay into Mr Cs annuity fund with Canada Life, to bring Mr Cs annuity payments up 
to what they would have been had Canada Life received the funds on 1 August 2019. 
The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the annuity fund if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If LEBC is unable to pay the compensation to increase Mr Cs annuity fund, LEBC 
should arrange a new annuity fund for him to make up the shortfall in the annuity 
payments and to bring Mr Cs to bring his total annuity income up to where it 
shouldve been, had LEBC not delayed the report.
If LEBC is unable to set up a second annuity fund for Mr C it should pay an amount direct to him that is the capital sum that would in theory buy the top up annuity. But 
had if been possible to pay into the annuity fund, it wouldve provided a taxable 
income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Cs actual or expected
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr C was a basic 
rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current 
basic rate of tax. However, if he wouldve been able to take a tax free lump sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Compensation for past loss
LEBC should:
Calculate the total net annuity payments Mr C has received to date, deduct that from 
the total notional annuity payments he would have received to date and pay the 
difference as a lump sum to compensate for the past loss and receiving a lower 
annuity rate than he should have done.
Interest at 8% simple pa should be added to the shortfall in annuity payments, 
calculated from the date each annuity payment wouldve been paid to the date of 
settlement.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If LEBC considers it is required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C 
how much has been taken off and give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. LEBC Group Limited must redress Mr C as Ive set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman