DRN-3041083
The complaint
Mrs B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) treated her unfairly when it 
made changes to the charging structure of her overdraft 
What happened
Mrs B complained to NatWest when it changed the charging structure to her overdraft. She 
is unhappy that she had to close her account and that NatWest wont accept the level of 
payment she has offered to repay her overdraft debt.
 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs Bs concern sand reached the conclusion NatWest 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mrs B unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. Mrs B disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
Ive seen that Mrs B has in some of her correspondence referred to the proportionality of the 
charges applied to her account. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I 
havent considered whether the various amounts NatWest charged over the years were fair 
and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. And this also applies in regards to how a bank runs its 
business. I cannot make a bank change its systems or processes such as how debt 
repayment plans are agreed or how long a bank will wait to have a debt repaid. That said, 
while Im not looking at NatWests various charging structures or processes per se, it wont 
have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs B if it applied any interest, fees and charges to 
Mrs Bs account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
have been aware Mrs B was experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where NatWest didnt treat Mrs B fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that NatWest did treat Mrs B unfairly or unreasonably here though. I 
say this because having looked at Mrs Bs statements I cant see anything to suggest that 
NatWest ought to have realised she might have been experiencing financial difficulty prior to 
it being notified of this. 
Mrs B may argue her regular use of her overdraft was in itself an indication that she was 
struggling. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mrs B 
expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual 
and discretionary transactions. And its also fair to say that these continued even after Mrs B 
was told about the change to the pricing structure. 
Furthermore, the amount being credited to Mrs Bs account each month didnt indicate that 
there was no reasonable prospect of her seeing a credit balance at any stage either. Indeed, 
there were periods when Mrs Bs account balance was in credit. 
I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Mrs B wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But 
there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted NatWest 
to any potential financial difficulty.
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for NatWest to proceed 
with adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mrs Bs account was being 
used. 
I also dont think NatWest acted unfairly when it rejected Mrs Bs offer to repay £22 towards 
her overdraft debt. If NatWest had accepted this offer of repayment my understanding is it 
would take 160 months for the debt to be repaid - while NatWests maximum term for a 
repayment plan is 18 months. As I stated above, I cannot make a bank changes its systems 
or processes  but a maximum period of 18 months doesnt seem unreasonable.
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that NatWest ought to have 
realised that Mrs B might have been in financial difficulty and I dont think NatWest treated 
Mrs B unfairly or unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mrs B  especially as shes been waiting 
some time for this answer. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman