DRN-4508672
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (RL) caused 
avoidable delays to the transfer of his pension from another part of RL. He also says that he 
hasnt received an acceptable explanation about why his transfer value fell so sharply. 
Two separate parts of RL were involved in this transfer. Ill refer to the part of RL that was 
responsible for the ceding scheme as the ceding part of RL. And the part of RL that was 
the responsible for the receiving scheme as simply RL. 
What happened
Mr B said that on 1 November 2022, the ceding part of RL, which held his former defined 
benefit pension  an Option 32 policy - sent him a letter explaining his retirement options. 
These included the option to transfer his pension. 
Mr B said that he decided to transfer his Option 32 policy benefits into his personal pension 
with RL. So on 2 December 2022, he requested the ceding part of RL to arrange that 
transfer. Mr B was provided with a transfer value of £104,471.86 on 19 December 2022. He 
was told on 18 January 2023 that hed have to take independent financial advice given the 
safeguarded benefits his transfer would include. 
Mr B appointed an adviser to provide the advice he needed for the transfer to go ahead. He 
said he instructed his adviser to prepare the necessary reports and to oversee the transfer of 
his pension funds.
Mr B said that he signed various forms, including a letter of authority (LOA) for his adviser on 
3 February 2023. He also said that his adviser signed off his transfer on 14 February 2023. 
Mr B said that at this point he thought everything was in place to transfer the funds on 23 
February 2023. 
On 6 February 2023, Mr Bs adviser emailed the ceding part of RL with the LOA and asked it 
to send all the requested information. It received this. The ceding part of RL emailed Mr B on 
12 February 2023 to tell him that the LOA didnt meet its requirements. It said it had rejected 
the LOA and told the adviser this.
On 16 February 2023, Mr Bs transfer request was submitted to the ceding part of RL. It 
rejected the request, explaining that an IFA would be required for such a transfer. The same 
day, it told Mr B that the transfer forms were valid for 90 days, but the transfer value was 
valid for 30 days.
On 18 February 2023, the ceding part of RL said it received a LOA from Mr Bs IFA. 
Mr B signed a financial advice confirmation form on 20 February 2023. The next steps 
section of this form stated:
Please ensure that both sections of the transfer application form have been completed  
Section 1 by the policyholder and Section 2 by the receiving scheme.
RL emailed Mr B on 20 February 2023 to tell him that an adviser had called it and had 
claimed he was acting on Mr Bs behalf. But as that adviser had no current authority over Mr 
Bs pension, RL said it hadnt been able to discuss anything with him. RL said that if this 
adviser wanted information on his plan, he would need to submit a LOA. It also said that if 
Mr B still wanted to transfer his Option 32 policy, his adviser would need to send a LOA to 
request transfer information on this plan. RL said:
We cannot action anything until an application and LoA is received.
On 21 February 2023, Mr Bs adviser posted the Transfer Discharge Form (TDF) to the 
ceding part of RL. 
On 23 February 2023, Mr Bs adviser called the ceding part of RL to ask it when he could 
expect a response to his information request. The ceding part of RL said it received by post 
the same day a cover letter from Mr Bs adviser with a completed Financial Advice 
Confirmation (FAC) form, and a partly completed TDF. It said that all of section 2 which 
needed to be completed by the receiving scheme was blank.
On 28 February 2023, Mr Bs IFA called RL for information. RL said it couldnt provide the 
adviser with any information as it didnt have a LOA. RL told the adviser that an application 
wouldnt be processed until it had received a LOA. RL emailed Mr B the same day to explain 
the situation. 
On 2 March 2023, RL said that the adviser submitted a LOA to obtain authority on Mr Bs 
pension. But it was for information only. The same day, the adviser emailed the LOA to RL. 
The LOA was signed and dated by Mr B but he had crossed out the wording: Transfer of 
agency and only left the wording: Request for Policy Information.
Also on 2 March 2023, the ceding part of RL said it told the adviser that section 2 of the TDF 
needed to be completed by the receiving scheme.
On 3 March 2023, the ceding part of RL issued new transfer forms with a new value of 
£106,104.75, valid for 30 days. So the transfer value would expire on 2 April 2023.
The same day, the adviser called the ceding part of RL. It said itd received the FAC, but was 
still waiting for the completed section 2 of the TDF. It issued a new TDF with the updated 
value.
On 8 March 2023, RL sent the adviser confirmation that the LOA itd sent would allow it to 
access information relating to Mr Bs pension. The same day, the ceding part of RL told the 
adviser that the FAC itd received wasnt for an Option 32 policy and that it needed the 
correct form to be completed. It emailed this to Mr Bs adviser. 
The ceding part of RL said that it received the correct completed FAC by email on 9 March 
2023. But on 17 March 2023, it issued a letter to Mr B as no receiving scheme sections had 
been completed for the transfer. It also said that on 24 March 2023, itd told Mr Bs adviser 
that it still hadnt received a completed section 2 of the TDF. And that the receiving scheme 
could use the Origo system if it preferred.
On 28 March 2023, the adviser sent some of the required paperwork to RL. And said that Mr 
B had the rest and would hopefully sign it soon. He said hed then send it on. He sent the 
rest of the paperwork later that day and asked for a timescale for the transfer.
On 31 March 2023, RL said it received the transfer application dated 28 March 2023. It said 
it contacted Mr Bs adviser to make him aware that the transfer couldnt be progressed without the correct LOA, with the adviser listed as the servicing agent on the pension.
Mr Bs adviser replied the same day to state that hed sent in a LOA. He also said hed 
spoken to RL on numerous occasions about the transfer and that each time the LOA had 
been located and security passed. He asked RL to check again and confirm that it was 
proceeding with the transfer.
The adviser called the ceding part of RL on 4 April 2023. It told him that it hadnt received the 
completed TDF itd asked for, or the Origo alternative. And that as the LOA had no servicing 
rights, RL couldnt proceed.
Mr Bs adviser sent a new LOA which met the requirements on 5 April 2023. RL said that by 
12 April 2023, itd received the correct LOA and a completed transfer application. It said it 
could at this point process the application.
On 21 April 2023, Mr B was provided with a new transfer value of £93,740.94. The Origo 
transfer request was put on hold due to the fall in value. 
On 26 April 2023, Mr Bs adviser called the ceding part of RL about the fall in value. He sent 
an email the same date which stated that since 3 March 2023, RL had confirmed to him on a 
few occasions that it had all it needed to transfer. And that it was only on 5 April 2023 that 
RL had mentioned that it needed a revised LOA.
On 2 May 2023, Mr Bs adviser raised a complaint about the transfer delay on Mr Bs behalf. 
And that the transfer value had now fallen. 
On 11 May 2023, the ceding part of RL sent a payment of £93,740.94 to RL. And on 18 May 
2023, RL received and invested the funds as of date of receipt, 15 May 2023.
RL issued its final response to the complaint on 5 May 2023 to Mr Bs adviser. It didnt think 
itd done anything wrong. It said it hadnt received the correct LOA so it couldnt process the 
application. And that it had explained what it still needed in an email sent to Mr Bs adviser 
on 31 March 2023. RL also said that once itd received the correct LOA itd processed the 
transfer in 21 days. It acknowledged that Mr Bs adviser felt that this was too long. But said 
this was in keeping with the usual turnaround times for such a transfer.
Mr B said he wasnt sent the final response until 11 August 2023. After hed received it, he 
asked RL who was responsible for the transfer delay from 23 February 2023 through to 15 
May 2023. He also asked it to explain why his transfer value had fallen from £106,104.75 on 
3 March 2023 to £93,740.94.
RL sent Mr B its timeline for the transfer. It said that itd processed the transfer application as 
soon as it could on 12 April 2023, once all the correct paperwork had been provided. It said it 
couldnt process the transfer before then as it didnt have the authority to do so. RL said that 
transfer values could rise and fall depending on market conditions and the performance of 
investments. 
Mr B wasnt happy with this response. He asked RL to provide him with a better explanation 
of why his transfer value had fallen.
RL asked the ceding part of RL to provide the explanation Mr B had requested. On 17 
August 2023, the ceding part of RL wrote to Mr B to explain whatd caused the transfer value 
to fall. It said the following:
The Option 32 style policy you had receives a bonus each year [on] the 1 April based on the performance of the underlying fund. If the fund has performed well this will be a positive 
amount, and if the fund has performed poorly this will be a negative amount.
This bonus is applied to the Asset Share figure you were quoted and does not impact the 
contractual GMP.
The 'mini-Budget' in the middle of 2022 led to increased market volatility, particularly in 
currency movements where the value of the pound has fallen, and as a result many 
customers experienced a drop in the value of their pension investments.
Option 32 Traditional With Profits policies are invested entirely in government bonds, other 
bonds and cash.
It's also worth highlighting that the news around pension funds collapsing is predominantly in 
relation to Defined Benefits (DB) pensions and as such, the Option 32 Fund was significantly 
impacted by the budget. This led to a significant negative bonus being applied to all Option 
32 policies as of the 1 April 2023.
Mr B wasnt happy with RLs response, so he brought his complaint to this service on 23 
August 2023. He felt that his transfer couldve taken place in February 2023, but hadnt gone 
through until May 2023. And that the unnecessary delay to the transfer which he felt RL had 
caused had led to a financial loss of approximately £15,000. He wanted RL to compensate 
him for this loss. 
Our investigator didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. He felt it was reasonable 
for RL as the receiving scheme to have requirements to process a transfer, such as requiring 
the adviser to be a servicing agent on the pension. He said that the LOA Mr Bs adviser had 
submitted simply allowed it to request policy information, not arrange a transfer, as the LOA 
submitted hadnt made the adviser the servicing agent on Mr Bs pension. He also noted that 
RL had emailed Mr Bs adviser to tell him that the LOA hed provided gave it authority which 
enabled it to provide him with information about Mr Bs plan. Our investigator didnt consider 
RL was required to tell the adviser anything else at this time. He didnt think RL shouldve 
questioned the submission of a LOA that requested information only.
Mr B and his adviser didnt agree with our investigator. They provided detailed reasons for 
this, which Ive summarised as follows:
RL had never specified what the requested LOA needed to include, despite knowing 
from conversations with both Mr B and his adviser that Mr B wanted to arrange a 
transfer.
The adviser felt RL mustve held an acceptable LOA on file, as he said hed spoken 
to RL on numerous occasions about the transfer and had passed the security 
checks. 
The two parts of RL involved in the transfer didnt communicate well between 
themselves or with Mr B and his adviser. 
Mr B felt that RL had caused unnecessary delays to the transfer process. And in 
doing so, was responsible for the fall in his transfer value. He said he felt as if hed 
lost all of the guaranteed benefits that he wouldve received under his original 
pension scheme. And had also had to pay the IFA fee for the transfer approval.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that RL didnt do anything wrong. I know this 
will be disappointing to Mr B. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
I first considered whether the adviser submitted a suitable LOA to RL as the receiving 
scheme by 23 February 2023.
Was a suitable LOA submitted to RL by 23 February 2023?
I can see that Mr B feels that everything was in place to transfer the funds on 23 February 
2023. I can understand why he felt this. He considered that he was dealing with one 
business  RL  for both parts of his transfer. And therefore if a valid LOA was suitable for 
the ceding part of RL, it must also be enough for the receiving part of RL. But this wasnt the 
case.
As the ceding part of RL has already explained to Mr B, while his transfer request was 
submitted to and accepted by it on 22 February 2023, it wasnt correct to consider that 
everything was in place to transfer the funds on 23 February 2023. 
The transfer couldnt actually go ahead until RL - the receiving scheme - had accepted and 
processed a transfer application form. The ceding part of RL also explained that the transfer 
request wouldnt be submitted to it until RL - the receiving scheme - was in receipt of a fully 
completed application form. And this couldnt happen until RL  the receiving scheme - 
received a correct LOA.
The ceding part of RL has also explained to Mr B that the LOA itd received was sufficient for 
it to provide any information his adviser wanted about his pension. But that its requirements 
as the ceding scheme werent the same as those of the receiving scheme. 
The ceding part of RL said that it received the confirmation it needed that Mr B had received 
regulated financial advice from a qualified adviser on the 9 March 2023. It said that once it 
had this, it then needed either a completed TDF or a valid Origo request to proceed with the 
transfer. It said that it told Mr Bs adviser this on a number of occasions before the transfer 
value expired. It also said that once it received the valid Origo request, after the transfer 
value had expired, it proceeded with the transfer.
RL  the receiving scheme - had different LOA requirements to the ceding part of RL. I 
consider this to be reasonable. I say this because Id expect LOAs to be required by both the 
ceding and the receiving scheme in any transfer, regardless of whether it appears that the 
same business is involved. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that RL acted correctly when it told Mr Bs adviser on 28 February 
2023, that it couldnt provide him with any information as it didnt have a LOA. The evidence 
shows that RL clearly explained to the adviser that an application wouldnt be processed 
until itd received a LOA. It also shows that RL told Mr B that it needed a LOA on 20 
February 2023.
I can also see that the adviser submitted a LOA to RL on 2 March 2023. But it was for 
information only and didnt give the adviser servicing rights on Mr Bs pension. 
The adviser said that itd chased RL and that itd confirmed receipt of the LOA. But it hadnt told the adviser that it required servicing rights for the transfer to proceed.
The evidence also shows that RL emailed the adviser on 8 March 2023 to tell it that the LOA 
itd sent would allow it to access information relating to Mr Bs pension. It also told the 
adviser that it wasnt the servicing agent. This wasnt a surprise to the adviser, as it didnt 
intend to service the pension, it just wanted to oversee the transfer.
Although I agree with Mr Bs adviser that this email didnt explicitly state that he couldnt 
request a transfer with this type of LOA, I think it did clearly state that the LOA only allowed 
access to information on Mr Bs pension. Mr B and his adviser had already thought that the 
initial LOA theyd submitted to the ceding part of RL was fit for purpose for the whole 
transfer. So if the adviser had been in any doubt about the suitability of the LOA hed 
submitted to RL as the receiving scheme, I think he shouldve asked RL for further 
clarification.
I know that Mr B and his advisers position is that RL never told them that it wouldnt be able 
to transfer Mr Bs pension due to his adviser not being listed as servicing agent on the LOA, 
despite having conversations about Mr Bs transfer with that adviser. And that the adviser 
thinks the LOA should in any event have been sufficient. I can also see that the adviser 
thinks that RL provided him with information about Mr Bs plan despite the wrong LOA being 
on file. But I cant fairly agree.
Im satisfied that RL acted reasonably when it didnt explicitly tell the adviser that it wouldnt 
be able to transfer Mr Bs pension using the LOA thatd been submitted on 2 March 2023. I 
say this because Im satisfied that its reasonable for RL to expect that an adviser would 
know what type of LOA would be required for his purposes. And if he didnt know, I would 
expect the adviser to ask to ensure the correct LOA was provided. I consider this is 
particularly relevant where theres a relatively short deadline for the required action to be 
completed, as in this case.
Im also satisfied that RL acted reasonably when it didnt accept the 2 March 2023 LOA as 
sufficient for the transfer. I say this because RLs transfer process requires it to have a LOA 
which includes servicing rights before it can allow a transfer. Its up to RL how it manages its 
transfer process. And I dont have the power to tell it what to do. But in any event, I cant 
fairly say this requirement is unreasonable. 
I understand why Mr B and his adviser had crossed out servicing rights on the LOA they 
submitted to RL on 2 March 2023. But this meant that the LOA theyd provided to RL could 
only be used for information requests. RL said that itd simply dealt with the received LOA as 
a standalone request to provide the rights being requested  in this case, information only. 
Therefore itd actioned the received LOA as its own request. Ive seen no evidence that RL 
did anything wrong here. It did what it was asked to do. I cant fairly expect it to have taken a 
different action, even if it knew that Mr B was considering a transfer.
I havent found any evidence that RL provided Mr Bs adviser with information about Mr Bs 
plan before it submitted a LOA to it. Therefore Im persuaded that RL  the receiving scheme 
 didnt enter into detailed dialogue with Mr Bs adviser about the transfer before itd received 
full authority on his pension. 
The evidence shows that RL emailed Mr Bs adviser on 31 March 2023 to explicitly tell him 
that it needed a LOA which allowed the adviser to access the policy as the servicing agent 
before the transfer could be processed. It explained why the submitted LOA wasnt suitable 
for that purpose at this point. 
I can also see that, after receiving this email, the adviser emailed Mr B on 4 April 2023 to tell him: 
The reason this isnt transferring is because the client crossed out the servicing rights part 
on the LOA.
I appreciate that Mr B wants to understand why RL didnt tell his adviser sooner that it didnt 
have the correct LOA. But Im not persuaded that RL as the receiving scheme knew that Mr 
B definitely wanted to transfer funds to it when his adviser first submitted the LOA on 2 
March 2023. The form was a template form from the advisers business, which simply 
requested the authority to access information from RL about Mr Bs pension. Ive not seen 
any evidence that RL failed to act on this LOA. And Im not persuaded that it shouldve 
known that the LOA was incorrect for the purposes Mr B and his adviser had intended. Or 
that it shouldve questioned whether or not the adviser had submitted the correct form for 
what it needed to do.
Overall, Ive seen no evidence that the transfer couldve taken place on 23 February 2023. I 
say this because Im satisfied that a suitable LOA wasnt submitted to RL until 5 April 2023. 
I next considered if the ceding part of RL has provided Mr B with a reasonable explanation 
about why his transfer value fell so sharply. 
Has the ceding part of RL provided Mr B with a reasonable explanation about the fall in his 
transfer value?
In the background section of my decision, Ive included part of the explanation the ceding 
part of RL provided to Mr B about why his transfer value had fallen. 
Ive carefully considered whether the full response reasonably explained the fall. Having 
done so, Im satisfied that the ceding part of RL took reasonable steps to explain why the 
transfer value had fallen. And I consider that the explanation was reasonable.
I understand that Mr B feels that he lost the benefits of the transfer due to the value falling. 
While I can see why he feels this way, I cant fairly and reasonably hold RL responsible for 
the market movements which led to the fall in Mr Bs transfer value. 
I next considered whether RL caused avoidable delays to the transfer of Mr Bs pension.
Did RL cause avoidable delays to Mr Bs transfer?
Mr B felt that RL had caused unnecessary delays to the transfer process. And that it was 
therefore responsible for the fall in his transfer value. 
RL said that once itd received all the required paperwork, the transfer application went 
ahead. It said that before then, the transfer request couldnt proceed.
The evidence shows that the ceding part of RL still hadnt received either the completed TDF 
itd requested, or the Origo alternative, on 4 April 2023. At this point, the higher transfer 
value had already expired. I can see that the ceding part of RL had informed Mr B and his 
adviser what it still needed on more than one occasion before the transfer value had expired. 
So I cant fairly say that RL caused Mr B to lose out on the higher transfer value. I say this 
because neither he nor his adviser provided the paperwork the ceding part of RL told them it 
still needed before 2 April 2023.
The evidence shows that the adviser submitted the correct LOA to RL on 5 April 2012. This 
was after the expiry of the higher transfer value.RL said it also needed a completed transfer application before it could process the transfer. 
And that 12 April 2023 was the date that both of these criteria were met. So the application 
proceeded from this date onwards.
The transfer was received and invested by RL as of date of receipt, 15 May 2023.
From what Ive seen, RL took around four weeks to process the transfer once itd received 
all of the documentation it needed from Mr B and his adviser. I consider this to be a 
reasonable timeframe. And Ive seen no evidence that RL caused avoidable delays. 
Therefore I cant fairly uphold this part of the complaint. 
I finally considered Mr Bs complaint that the two parts of RL involved in the transfer didnt 
communicate well between themselves or with Mr B and his adviser. 
Was there a communication problem within RL?
I understand why Mr B may have felt that he was only dealing with one business for both 
parts of his transfer. And that the two parts of RL would both be aware of what was going on 
for both sides of the transfer. But I cant fairly agree.
The evidence shows that both parts of RL have already explained to Mr B that they have 
separate requirements. And that they dont share all information about a transfer between 
the two parts of the business. I dont consider that this is an unreasonable position. I say this 
because I wouldnt expect ceding and receiving providers to share information whether or 
not they were part of the same business. I dont consider it would be appropriate.
I can see that Mr B and his adviser felt that some of the things theyd discussed with the 
ceding part of RL shouldve been known by RL as the receiving scheme. But this wasnt a 
correct assumption. 
Overall, Ive seen no evidence that there was a communication problem with RL.
Im sorry that Mr B received a lower transfer value, later than he expected, and that this 
affected his plans. But having considered all of his complaint points, Im not found that RL 
did anything wrong. Therefore I cant uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman