DRN-3333683
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy about British Gas Insurance Limited declining his claim under his 
HomeCare Two policy. This policy covers the boiler, controls and the central heating.
What happened
Mr Es radiators werent functioning correctly, so he contacted BG and asked it to arrange a 
repair. BGs engineer inspected and found the system was suffering from a build up of 
sludge. This had happened over a period of time and was affecting the radiators. BG 
confirmed sludge isnt covered under the policy. BG also said normally it would offer to 
charge Mr E for a power flush to clear the system. But due to the pipework being 
nonbarrier it wouldnt be suitable. BG said the central heating system should be re-piped 
and the boiler replaced. BG said this isnt covered by the policy and Mr E would have to pay 
for it.
Mr E wasnt happy with this. He said he wasnt aware that sludge was building up as BG 
hadnt mentioned this on previous visits or during services. He also said BG should have told 
him on previous occasions that his pipework was non-barrier, and this meant his existing 
policy was unsuitable for him. He said BG should deal with his claim.
Mr E is also unhappy that another BG engineer on a previous visit hadnt added corrosion 
inhibitor to the system. Mr E said he knows this because he found no inhibitor when he 
himself removed water from a radiator. Mr E feels this contributed to why the system ended 
up with sludge in it and why he had to make a claim.
BG reconsidered and offered to change the policy from the HomeCare Two to a HomeCare 
One policy. It also offered to refund the difference in premiums for the existing policy year. 
Mr E didnt accept this, he said the refund should go right back to 2016 when he first took out 
the policy.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said BG reasonably declined the claim in line 
with the policy wording. The policy refers to not covering pre-existing faults when the policy 
was first taken out. She said its clear the piping in Mr Es system wasnt suitable for this type 
of cover.
In terms of changing the policy to HomeCare One, our investigator agreed with Mr E. She 
accepted that a BG sales adviser had said in 2018 that to fit a new boiler Mr E would need to 
change all the non-barrier pipework too. She felt this meant BG was aware of the issue from 
that point and should have changed the policy to a HomeCare One policy at that time. 
Regarding the corrosion inhibitor our investigator felt BG had acted reasonably. She said the 
records showed no signs of any issues with sludge previously and that inhibitor had been 
added to the system at the right time based on the records from BG.
Our investigator said BG was right to offer to refund the difference between HomeCare One 
and HomeCare Two for the policy year of 2020/21. But she didnt think that was enough 
she also recommended BG should refund 50% of the difference between both the two cover 
types for the policy years of 2018/19 and 2019/20. Our investigator said this was because 
Mr E had benefitted from certain sections of the policy cover including the annual service of 
the radiators and replacement of valves. Our investigator also felt this had caused some 
distress and inconvenience to Mr E. She said BG should pay £50 as compensation for this.
BG didnt accept this and asked for the case to be passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
In my recent provisional decision I said:
Ill deal with each area of complaint under separate headings.
Declined claim
The policy terms and conditions say that any pre-existing faults are not covered if they:
Existed when you first took out the product or;
We couldnt reasonably have been expected to know about before
BG say they were unaware before that Mr Es pipes were non-barrier. Mr E disputes this. He 
said BG should have noticed this when it first visited. He also pointed out that a BG sales 
adviser knew this from 2018 when trying to sell him a new boiler.
BG said the initial engineer inspects the boiler and visually inspects the central heating 
system. It said most of the pipework in Mr Es house is hidden. BG said There are small 
tails of plastic pipe going to each radiator sticking out of the wall. There are no obvious 
markings on the pipe to identify that it is 'non barrier' and there would be a requirement for 
the radiator valves to be removed to physically inspect the pipework internals, this would 
require draining the system and is not something that we would do on a First Visit.
BG also said that the sales adviser works for a different part of the business that isnt linked 
to the insurance policy area. BG said they dont share the same systems. I can understand 
that. But to Mr E I can also see that its all part of BG and hed expect the different parts of 
the business to be joined up.
I think the further evidence from BG was helpful in this case. It said When the service 
engineer has attended in June 2020. he has identified that the pipework is 'non barrier', he 
did not have to carry out checks, because he already had knowledge of this particular 
housing estate which all had 'non barrier' pipework installed when they were built.
BG continued In normal circumstances, the service engineer would have recommended a 
power flush to remove the suspected blockages in the system. However, because it has 
been identified as 'non barrier' pipework at this visit, a power flush is not recommended. 
'Non-barrier' pipework is weaker than normal pipework, a power flush uses pressurised 
water and it is likely that this would cause the pipes to leak.
On balance I accept what BG said about why the pipework wasnt noticed at first visit and 
what it would have needed to do to find that out. I also accept that the boiler sales team 
might not be linked up with the insurance part of the business, even though I can understand 
why Mr E thought it should be. I think the evidence that the engineer had personal 
knowledge of the estate was helpful. Based on the policy wording, details and evidence 
provided I think its reasonable that BG declined to deal with the claim. It is clear the 
pipework was in place before the cover started.
Change from HomeCare two to HomeCare oneIn view of the changes needed BG offered to move Mr E to a product that was more suitable. 
This was based on the non-barrier pipework. It offered to refund him the premium difference 
for the existing policy year as the policy couldnt do what Mr E wanted it to. BG said it 
wouldnt extend the refund beyond that period as the policy had been used in previous 
years. BG said Mr E had benefitted from the central heating cover in both the 2018/19 and 
2019/20 policy years. BG said twice in 2018 the system was drained, and pumps and valves 
were replaced. In 2019 it said a leaking valve to a radiator had been replaced. As it is clear 
Mr E has been able to use the HomeCare Two policy in the past, I think BG offering to 
refund him for the existing policy back to the last renewal is fair.
Mr E thinks he ought to get a refund right back to the start of the policy and I understand 
that. But I think from the details provided by BG the policy had been used up to HomeCare 
Two level in the previous years and so I think BGs offer is reasonable.
Based on what BG said it appears none of the actual works undertaken by BG under the 
policy led it to realise the pipes were non-barrier. So previously it didnt know Mr Es level of 
cover needed to change to HomeCare One.
Corrosion inhibitor
Mr E said when he checked his radiators BG hadnt put any inhibitor into the system when it 
was supposed to. Mr E thinks that made the sludge worse. BG said A visual inspection of a 
radiator would not be possible to determine whether inhibitor had been added to a system. 
There would be a requirement for an inhibitor test kit to be able to check the level of inhibitor 
in the system. The written service records from BG said that inhibitor was added to the 
system. Based on these details I dont think it shows that BG did anything wrong.
Compensation
As I dont think BG did anything wrong it follows that I dont think it needs to compensate 
Mr E. I think BGs offer to refund the premium and backdate HomeCare One cover to the last 
renewal date is fair and reasonable.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr E responded and his main points were:
He didnt think his points had been taken into full consideration.
The piping can be clearly seen as grey rather than while plastic which signifies the 
difference between plastic and proper piping.
BG has completed some work on the central heating and replaced two leaking radiators 
in line with the homecare two policy he wants to continue this whilst awaiting the final 
decision, as long as BG continues to honour the replacement of leaking radiators if 
needed.
He wants BG to visit and install corrosion inhibitor in his central heating as he said it 
should have been done when BG fitted replacement radiators.
He wants to stop his case at this stage but if BG didnt follow through, he will start a new 
complaint.
These comments were passed on to BG who responded, and its comments were relayed to 
Mr E. BGs main points were:
Regarding the piping in the property has already been discussed and its position hasnt changed.
Regarding Mr Es thoughts on closing the complaint. If Mr E wishes to continue with 
central heating cover, British Gas are more than happy to provide it to him subject to all 
of the terms and conditions, the full terms and conditions from BGs response have been 
forwarded to Mr E.
The policy does not provide for inhibitor to be added to the system, if Mr E wished for this 
to be completed it would be a chargeable job in line with the terms and conditions.
BG can provide a quote to Mr E for inhibitor to be added to the central heating system, 
but this is not recommended in his case. Due to the blockages in the pipework it would 
not be recommended to add inhibitor into the system because it will not do anything.
The only way for the central heating system to perform fully would be for a re-pipe, which 
is an upgrade job and not part of the policy.
Mr Es comments regarding the inhibitor are a new complaint point and not part of his 
initial complaint. But to speed the process up rather than start a new complaint BG have 
considered this now and are happy for the ombudsman to include an outcome within the 
decision. BG said for the reasons stated above, BG are not liable for adding inhibitor into 
a central heating system.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although there was some further discussion between our investigator and Mr E, Im not 
entirely clear about whether or not Mr E was going to resolve the matter informally with BG 
or if he did want a final decision. So, for ease and clarity Ive done the final decision, so all 
parties know where they are.
I think Mr Es response to the provisional decision rather developed his original complaint. 
But I can confirm that all his original complaint points have been considered by me even if he 
doesnt feel Ive given them enough or particular attention.
I dont see anything raised in response from either party to make me change my provisional 
decision.
I appreciate BG accepting the extra point about it coming back to add inhibitor and I accept 
its answer that it isnt liable. I think thats reasonable.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no further award against British Gas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman