DRN-4316359
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Insurance dealt 
with his home emergency claim.  
Any reference to UKI includes the actions of its agent.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events. 
Mr H has home emergency cover in connection with his home insurance policy. UKI 
is the underwriter of the policy.
In February 2023, Mr Hs boiler broke down and so, he contacted UKI to make a 
home emergency claim. 
Two days later, UKIs engineer attended and said the circuit board was faulty. They 
later said the part couldnt be replaced and requested a write-off report from the 
manufacturer of the boiler. 
Mr H arranged for an engineer from the manufacturer to look at his boiler. That 
engineer said the boiler was in working order and that the breakdown had been 
caused by a faulty zone valve not opening, so there was no need to condemn the 
boiler and replace it.
Unhappy with the service hed received from UKIs engineer, Mr H arranged for his 
own plumber to repair the boiler in mid-March 2023. Mr H says his heating system 
was working again within an hour.  
Mr H complained to UKI about the service hed received from its engineer. UKI 
accepted its engineer had misdiagnosed the cause of Mr Hs boiler breaking down 
and said its service had fallen short. In total, it paid £345 compensation.
Mr H didnt consider the compensation to fairly reflect the difficulties hed 
experienced and so brought a complaint to this Service. 
An Investigator considered it but didnt uphold the complaint saying he thought the 
compensation was fair in the circumstances. 
Because Mr H disagreed with the Investigators outcome, the complaint has been 
passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision. 
I looked at it and told UKI that I intended to direct it to cover the costs Mr H had 
incurred in having his own plumber complete the repair (subject to proof of costs). 
UKI accepted this, saying its engineer would be in touch with Mr H to obtain invoices 
for the repair work his plumber carried out.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it  and Ill explain why. 
Compensation
Mr H has expressed hes unhappy with UKIs engineer and the service it provided. As our 
Investigator has explained, because the engineer was acting on UKIs behalf, UKI is 
responsible for the engineers actions. Meaning that when deciding whether the 
compensation is fair, Im considering the total amount of £345  part of which was paid by 
UKIs engineer, and the remainder by UKI.  
Understandably, being without central heating for a period of twenty days in the winter 
months was difficult for Mr H  especially as he has health conditions which he considers 
make him more vulnerable. I dont doubt that the sub-standard service he received during 
this time compounded these difficulties. I also appreciate the frustration hes felt at having 
possibly incurred an avoidable expense by replacing his boiler based on the engineers 
misdiagnosis of the fault with his boiler. 
But I must balance this with the fact Mr H didnt replace his boiler and incur an unnecessary 
expense and inconvenience of doing so. So, whilst I accept this has been a concern for him, 
the situation ultimately, didnt arise. 
Furthermore, I must keep in mind that the duration for which Mr H didnt have heating was 
around three weeks  and whilst was no doubt, inconvenient  Im aware Mr H wasnt living 
at his house the entire time. And when he was there, he did have access to some heating by 
using fan heaters and a single gas fire. I recognise this temporary solution wasnt ideal, but I 
have to take this into account when considering the impact UKIs actions had on him.  
So, on balance, I am satisfied £345 compensation is reasonable and is in line with awards 
this Service makes in respect of distress and inconvenience. And so, I wont be asking UKI 
to increase it. 
Covering Mr Hs plumbers costs
Its not in dispute UKIs engineer misdiagnosed the fault with Mr Hs boiler. And it seems to 
me  from reading the policy document - that had the fault been correctly identified in the 
first instance, the cost of repairing the boiler would have been covered by the policy. I say 
this because the policy says:
If there is an emergency in your home, when you call us: [] we will pay up to £500 
(including VAT) for each emergency assistance call out to cover the cost of the call 
out, labour at your home, parts.
So, I consider it reasonable for UKI to cover the costs Mr H incurred in having his plumber fix 
the problem with his boiler  subject to Mr H providing invoices for the relevant works. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Insurance to:
Reimburse Mr H the plumbing costs he incurred in having his boiler repaired - subject 
to proof of invoices and the policy limit. U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill 
should pay simple interest at 8% a year from the date Mr H paid the invoice until the 
date it is refunded. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman