DRN-1574853
The complaint
Mr K says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy Mr K took out in 2003. It was added to his 
account when he applied for the card online.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Canada Square disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ks case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint because I dont think Canada Square gave Mr K 
clear enough information about the policy. I say this because it didnt clearly explain the cost 
and benefits of the policy. I think this would have mattered to Mr K because he had more 
than 12 months of his salary available as sick pay and savings. This means he could have 
met his credit card repayments for a while without the policy. So, I think Mr K probably 
wouldnt have wanted the policy if hed properly understood the cost and benefits. 
I dont think Mr K wouldve bought the policy if Canada Square had given him enough 
information about it. So, I think Mr K has lost out because of what Canada Square did wrong. 
Ive taken into account Canada Squares comments, including what it said about Mr K 
initially providing different information about his sick pay and savings. But I still think I should 
uphold the complaint. On Mr Ks initial PPI questionnaire he said he couldnt remember the 
date of sale. So, theres no reason for me to think the information he provided about his sick 
pay and savings were relevant to the time when he took out the PPI. 
Mr K later, once he knew the date of sale, completed a questionnaire which said he had at 
least 12 months sick pay and between six and 12 months savings or other insurance. We 
clarified this with him, because the sick pay seemed high and it was important to understand 
exactly how long his savings or other insurance would cover him for. Mr K confirmed that he 
has no evidence of his sick pay  but is sure it was 12 months full sick pay. And he had 
£20,000 available in savings. This was about 12 months of his take home pay at the time. 
I cant be sure of the level of sick pay Mr K had. His employer at the time now provides 18 
weeks full pay and 9 weeks half pay. So, Ive taken this as the minimum he wouldve had. 
Ive no reason to doubt the information Mr K has provided about his savings. What he said 
on the relevant PPI questionnaire and what he told us about the amount he had saved 
match up. And Ive decided that, due to his savings and sick pay, it is unlikely that hed have taken the PPI if hed been given clear information about what it cost and the benefits it 
provided. 
Putting things right
Canada Square should put Mr K in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out 
PPI.
Canada Square should find out how much Mr K would have owed when he closed his credit 
card account if the policy hadnt been added. So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, 
as well as any interest charged on those premiums. It should also remove any charges that 
were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
Canada Square should then refund the difference between what Mr K owed when he closed 
his account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI. If Mr K made a successful 
claim under the PPI policy, Canada Square can take off what he got for the claim from the 
amount it owes him. 
Canada Square should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr K would have 
owed when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be and 8% a year.
If  when Canada Square works out what Mr K would have owed each month without PPI  
Mr K paid more than enough to clear his balance, Canada Square should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr K paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr 
K wouldve owed Canada Square something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 
8% a year.
Canada Square should tell Mr K what its done to work out the above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Canada Square to take off tax from this interest. Canada 
Square must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Canada Square Operations Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman