DRN-3494809
The complaint
Ms M and Mr S are unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has declined their travel 
insurance claim.  
What happened
Ms M and Mr S have a travel insurance policy alongside their bank current account. The 
policy is underwritten by Aviva. 
In December 2020, Ms M and Mr S travelled to their destination with their young baby. They 
were due to return to the UK on 1 March 2021. However, the country they were in was put 
onto the UK red list on 3 February 2021. This meant that travellers returning to the UK had 
to quarantine in a government approved hotel and had to pay £1,750.
Mr S returned to the UK on 11 February 2021 - earlier than theyd planned as he had to go 
back to work and didnt want to quarantine. 
On 17 February 2021, Mr S contacted Aviva and started a claim for himself. At the same 
time, he also requested information for Ms M and their baby and what would happen if they 
had to also return to the UK and had to quarantine. Initially, the claim was declined by Aviva 
as Ms M and Mr S had travelled against the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Development 
Office (FCDO) advice which the policy excluded cover for. However, on further advice, Aviva 
said the policy was only effective from 20 January 2021 and as the family were already in 
the middle of their trip, this didnt apply. Aviva said the event that led to Mr S to curtail his trip 
wasnt one which was covered under the policy. But Aviva agreed to cover costs up to the 
value of the UK quarantine hotel which was £1,750. 
He was informed that they would be able to claim up to £1,750 per person, less the excess if 
they had all returned home by their scheduled date. At the time of the call, Mr S wasnt able 
to confirm when Ms M and their baby would return home. 
Ms M returned to the UK on 14 April 2021 with their baby. They didnt return as originally 
intended on 1 March 2021 due to her anxiety but extended the trip. So, Aviva confirmed they 
no longer had cover as they decided to extend their trip and they had no cover on their policy 
beyond 1 March 2021. 
Mr S has provided receipts and evidence of the costs he incurred but Aviva said it required 
further information as they need some clarity on what Mr S was claiming for.
Aviva accepted and apologised for the confusion in communication and the handling of the 
claim and offered Ms M and Mr S £100 compensation in recognition of this. 
Ms M and Mr S referred their complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought Aviva had been reasonable in confirming that 
cover for Mr S would be provided so long as Mr S could confirm further information required 
of the costs incurred. So, it could still settle the claim for Mr S. Although Mr S provided 
evidence of the receipts and statements he had, there were some which were eligible under 
the claim, but it required further information about others claimed for. Our investigator said it 
was reasonable that Aviva has confirmed costs for Mr S would be covered up to £1,750 for 
him. She also said the offer of £100 compensation for the confusion in Avivas 
communication was fair and reasonable based on what happened. 
Our investigator confirmed that it was fair and reasonable that there was no cover for Ms M 
and their baby under their policy because they extended their trip beyond 1 March 2021. And 
given that Mr Ss wish to avoid quarantine wasnt a listed event for available cover under 
their policy, she thought it was fair and reasonable for Aviva to confirm some of the costs 
could be covered if the requested information could be provided. 
Ms M and Mr S disagreed with the investigators assessment of their complaint and asked 
for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive started by looking at Ms M and Mr Ss policy terms and conditions as this forms the 
basis of their contract with Aviva. 
Page 23 of the policy booklet sets out the cover available under their policy in the event that 
a trip is cancelled or curtailed (cut short). This says:
Cancelling or coming home early
If you unavoidably have to cancel your trip or come home early, we will pay for the 
following:
non recoverable costs that each insured person has paid, or legally has to 
pay for their own unused personal travel and/or accommodation. This also 
includes the cost of pre-paid excursions and green fees; and/or
additional travel costs (if you cannot use your return ticket), and/or 
accommodation costs (of a similar standard you had booked for your trip) 
necessary to allow you to  come home early.
The most we will pay for each insured person is:
£7,500 for personal travel and accommodation costs;
£750 for excursions;
£250 for green fees.
If you are unable to recover these costs from the provider.
If one of the following occurs:
1.you are injured, fall ill, are quarantined or die.2. a close relative, close business colleague, or the person you were going to 
stay with is seriously injured, falls seriously ill or dies.
3.your home is badly damaged by explosion, fire, landslide, flood or 
severe/adverse weather.
4. the police need to speak to you because your home or place of work has been 
burgled.
5. severe/adverse weather prevents you from leaving your home, reaching your 
point of international departure or your pre-booked holiday accommodation 
in the UK.
6. delay or cancellation of your pre-booked transport prevents you from leaving the 
UK on your outward journey, and the carrier or their handling agent is unable to 
provide suitable alternative travel arrangements within 24 hours of the date and 
time of the scheduled  departure as shown on your ticket/itinerary.
7.you are a member of the Armed Forces, Police, Ambulance, Fire, Nursing 
Services or an employee of a Government Department and authorised leave is 
cancelled due to an unexpected posting or a major incident in the UK.
8. you are prevented from travelling within 31 days of your scheduled departure date
or have to come home early because:
(a) an avalanche, earthquake, explosion, fire, landslide, flood or severe/adverse
weather renders your accommodation uninhabitable or unreachable;
(b) a Foreign and Commonwealth Office advisory notice is in place advising against
all travel or all but essential travel to your destination or, the FCO are advising British
citizens to leave the area in which you are staying.
Or you choose not to travel or continue your trip because;
(c) your accommodation is directly affected by a food poisoning outbreak, or the area 
in which you are staying is affected by pandemic or epidemic influenza;
(d) a major incident such as a terrorist attack happens within a 50 mile radius of the 
area in which you will be/are staying and you do not wish to travel or you wish to 
return home early.
9. Your transport operator, accommodation provider or their booking agents become
insolvent.
10. You are denied boarding because there are too many passengers for the seats 
available and no suitable alternative flight could be provided within 12 hours.
You can also cancel your trip if one of the following occurs:
(a) you are made redundant;
(b) you are called for jury service or as a witness in a court of law during your trip.
You will also be covered if your travelling companion has to cancel the trip or come
home early for one of the reasons listed above.
Based on the above section of the policy, there is cover available for cancelling or for cutting 
short a trip. But the cover is only available for those listed events set out above. Having to 
cut a trip short because of having to quarantine upon returning to the UK isnt a listed event 
under their policy.I note that Aviva has nevertheless agreed to provide cover for Mr Ss claim for having to cut 
his trip short due to him not wanting to quarantine as instructed by the UK government. Mr S 
returned earlier than planned and Aviva has agreed to cover this part of the claim. I also note 
that while Mr S has provided receipts and bank statements to show the costs hed incurred; 
Aviva requires further information from Mr S to confirm clarification of some of the costs in 
order to settle the claim. 
I think this is fair and reasonable and its now up to Mr S and Aviva to communicate on this 
issue to reach a fair and appropriate settlement and resolution. Aviva hasnt declined this 
part of the claim, only that it requires further information from Mr S to obtain clarification for 
some of those costs hes included. Potentially, some of those may not be covered under 
their policy but Mr S has to get in touch with Aviva to explain what hes claiming for in more 
detail so it can consider whats covered and whats not potentially covered. He has cover 
available up to a maximum amount of £1,750 which I think is fair and reasonable.
Has the claim been declined fairly for Ms M and their child?
Aviva has declined the claim Mr S has made for Ms M and their baby. It has said they are 
not covered for any additional costs they incurred as a result of having to quarantine when 
they returned to the UK on 14 April 2021. Thats because they returned after their intended 
date of 1 March 2021, which means they extended their trip. There is no cover for trips that 
are extended on their policy.
Cover on the policy for Ms M and Mr S and their baby was only up to 1 March 2021. I 
appreciate that Ms M didnt return on their intended date of 1 March 2021 because her and 
the baby would have had to quarantine. Ms M and Mr S have said she didnt return with Mr 
M because she didnt want to cut her trip short. She was also feeling anxious to return and to 
have to quarantine with the baby on her own. I can see in the end her sister did stay with 
her. 
Ive considered whether the reasons provided by Ms M and Mr S are enough for me to ask 
Aviva to accept their claim. Having done so, Im not persuaded I can fairly ask Aviva to now 
accept this part of the claim. I say this because Ms M extended her trip. She didnt return 
earlier than planned. Neither did she return on 1 March 2021. As such, there is simply no 
cover under their policy for the situation they found themselves in. Cover on the policy was 
up until 1 March 2021 and as Ms M returned on 14 April 2021, this went beyond what could 
be covered under their policy. 
Ive taken into account their comments that Aviva told them they would each be covered up 
to a limit of £1,750 each minus the excess. I appreciate the communication by the Aviva 
advisor could have been clearer but, at the same time, this doesnt mean that Aviva ought to 
now take responsibility for this part of the claim. This cover was only available if Ms M had 
cut her trip short or returned when she had initially intended to and then had to quarantine. 
As she returned later than intended, she extended her trip for which there was no cover 
beyond 1 March 2021. 
Im satisfied Aviva didnt decline this part of the claim unfairly or unreasonably in the 
circumstances of what happened. 
Claim handling
Ive considered how Aviva has handled Ms M and Mr Ss claim and all the available 
evidence. In doing so, Ive also listened to all the telephone calls which Ive been provided. 
I agree the claim handling initially could have been handled better. The communication could have been clearer by Aviva. While the advisor did say that cover would be provided up to 
£1,750 for all three persons on the policy, minus the excess, this was in the context of the 
scenario of Ms M and their baby returning earlier than planned or on 1 March 2021 and then 
having to quarantine. It happened that Ms M returned later than what Mr S sought advice 
from Aviva for.  
And to also be fair to Aviva, Mr S hadnt asked what would happen if Ms M had returned 
later than initially planned. So while I accept the communication could have been clearer on 
Avivas part, I think it could have also been clearer on Mr Ss part.
Nevertheless, Aviva accepted that it could have done better and apologised. It also offered 
£100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms M and Mr S. I think this 
amount is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
Conclusion
Overall, taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Aviva hasnt declined Ms M and 
Mr Ss complaint unfairly or unreasonably. 
Ill leave it up to both parties to make contact to reach a settlement amount and resolution on 
Mr Ss claim for cutting his trip short. This is still open to Mr S if he wishes to settle this part 
of the claim.
There is no cover available for Ms M and their baby for extending their trip until 14 April 
2021. 
I think the offer of £100 compensation is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Ms M and Mr Ss complaint against Aviva 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman