DRN-2279693
The complaint
Miss N says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy that was added to Miss Ns account in 2003 
during a phone call.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ns case. 
Ive decided this PPI policy was mis-sold, and Ill explain why.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Miss N, so it didnt have to check it was right for her. But it 
did have to give her information about the policy that was clear, fair, and not misleading  so 
that she could decide for herself whether it was right for her.
I cant see that AXA gave Miss N clear enough information about the PPIs full cost and 
benefits. And I think this wouldve mattered to Miss N. From what I have, it looks like 
Miss Ns work benefits covered her for long enough to not really need this policy. And given 
just how expensive this particular policy was, I dont think Miss N wouldve thought it was 
good value for money.
I understand AXA would like more proof of Miss Ns benefits from the time. But the benefits 
shes told us about are completely reasonable and broadly fit with her circumstances. I dont 
have a good reason to disbelieve her. And given how long ago the sale was, I think its fair to 
give her the benefit of the doubt  in much the same way that AXA cant now provide a call 
recording or transcript to show that Miss N ever consented to having PPI, but weve given it 
the benefit of the doubt there. Theres only so much evidence I can expect both sides to 
have after so many years.
I dont think Miss N wouldve bought the policy if shed been given clear enough information 
about its cost and benefits. So I think Miss N has most likely lost out because of the flaws in 
this sale.
Putting things right
AXA should put Miss N in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.) AXA should find out how much Miss N would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Miss N owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss N made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.) AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss N would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% simple a year.
C.) If  when AXA works out what Miss N would have owed each month without PPI  she 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Miss N paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Miss N 
wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should again be 8% 
simple a year.
D.) AXA should tell Miss N what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ns complaint.
AXA France IARD should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman