DRN-4299569
The complaint
Miss E is unhappy with a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement provided by BMW 
Financial Services(GB) Limited trading as ALPHERA Financial Services (BMWFS).
What happened
In January 2022, Miss E acquired a used car funded in part with a hire purchase agreement 
with BMWFS. The car was a little under three years old and the mileage on the agreement is 
recorded as 5,901. The car cost £25,750 and Miss E paid an advance payment of £1,000.
Miss E says the car broke down in November 2022. It was recovered to a third party garage 
who specialised in the make of Miss Es car. The mileage was recorded as 18,986. A 
diagnostic was performed and then the dual mass flywheel replaced, which involved the 
removal of the gearbox. Miss E paid £1,650 for the work and complained to BMWFS around 
this time.
But, the next day the car broke down again and was recovered costing £48. It appears it was 
initially taken back to the same third party garage, but Miss E was advised to take it to a 
manufacturers garage to look at. 
Ive then seen an estimate from December 2022, from a manufacturers garage, which 
explains that the dual-clutch transmission auxiliary oil pump needed to be replaced along 
with associated work, with a cost of £1,222.58. Miss E says the work was completed and 
paid for. But, she said this again didnt resolve the issue.
BMWFS issued its final response in January 2023. This explained, in summary, that BMWFS 
didnt believe any issues with the car were present or developing at the point of supply. And 
it said Miss Es driving style couldve led to the faults.
Around a week after BMWFS issued its final response, the manufacturers garage saw the 
car again. It was noted the car had broken down and a gear couldnt be selected. An 
estimate was given to Miss E for £2,426.70. This detailed work required to replace the 
electrohydraulic controller unit for the dual clutch transmission along with various other 
transmission parts and associated work. Miss E says this work wasnt completed and the car 
remained at the garage.
Our service began to look into Miss Es complaint and our investigator issued an opinion.
She said, in summary, that she didnt think the car was of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied. She said she thought Miss E should be entitled to reject the car, get back any 
repayments since she stopped driving the car in January 2023 and get back the money 
shed spent so far on the attempted repairs and recoveries. Our investigator also said 
BMWFS should pay Miss E £400 to reflect what happened.
Miss E responded. She agreed with the opinion, but said shed stopped driving the car in 
November 2022, which was earlier than noted by our investigator.
BMWFS also came back to us. It said, in summary, that it thought the initial repairs were 
probably a misdiagnosis and so it shouldnt be responsible. It queried the delivery mileage of 
the car. And it said if the issues were present at the point of sale they wouldve appeared 
sooner.
Another investigator picked up the case and reviewed things along with BMWFS comments. 
She explained she still thought the case should be upheld.
BMWFS again disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. I sent BMWFS and 
Miss E a provisional decision on 26 July 2023. My findings from this decision were as 
follows:
I should start by explaining to both parties that Im going to focus on what I think are the key 
facts and the crux of Miss Es complaint. Where I havent commented on something, this 
doesnt mean I havent considered it, nor that I think it unimportant. Ive thought carefully 
about all of the available information, and my approach here reflects the informal nature of 
our service.
Miss E complains about the quality of a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. 
Entering into regulated consumer credit contracts like this as a lender is a regulated activity, 
so Im satisfied I can consider Miss Es complaint against BMWFS.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA 
explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  BMWFS here  has a responsibility 
to make sure goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable 
person would expect  taking into account any relevant factors. Its important to note in this 
case that the CRA specifically says that the durability of goods should be considered as part 
of satisfactory quality.
I would consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the cars age, price, 
mileage and description. Its important to note that Miss Es car was used. So, I dont think a 
reasonable person would expect it to be in the same condition as a new one. But, that being 
said, Miss Es car was under three years old, cost over £25,000 and I think its fair to say had 
a lower than average mileage for its age, of under 6,000. So, I think a reasonable person 
wouldve expected it to be in good condition, free from anything other than very minor issues 
and would expect trouble free motoring for some time.
What I need to decide in this case is whether the car was of satisfactory quality or not. The 
first thing to consider is whether the car developed a fault.
Ive seen an invoice from the third party garage from November 2022 that says:
Vehicle recovery
Supply and fit genuine (car make) duel mass flywheel
So, Im satisfied the car broke down in November 2022 and the garage believed this was 
due to a fault with the flywheel.
Miss E explained the car broke down again the day after this was repaired, and Ive seen an 
invoice for £48 for a recovery on this day. So, Im satisfied this was the case and that the 
initial repair failed.
The manufacturers garage then saw the car and noted:REPLACE DUAL-CLUTCH TRANSMISSION AUXILIARY OIL PUMP
Miss E has explained this didnt repair the car. This appears to be backed up from the notes 
from when the manufacturers garage saw the car again, as these say:
BREAKDOWN  CANT SELECT GEAR
The estimate then goes on to say:
REPLACE ELECTROHYDRAULIC CONTROLLER UNIT OF DUAL-CLUTCH
TRANSMISSION
So, considering all of this, Im satisfied the car had an underlying issue with the 
transmission/clutch system that wasnt repaired despite two attempts.
Ive then gone on to consider if this meant the car was of unsatisfactory quality. In its final 
response, BMWFS said it had considered the cars durability. But, I dont think its outcome 
was reasonable here. I say this as I think its quite clear that on a car that cost over £25,000 
the transmission shouldnt develop a fault and require quite major repairs when it had 
covered under 19,000 miles.
It follows this that Im satisfied the car wasnt durable. And so Im also satisfied a reasonable 
person would not consider it to have been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to 
Miss E.
Ive then gone on to consider what else BMWFS said here. It explained it thought Miss Es 
driving style couldve affected things. But I dont think this is likely. I say this as the car is an 
automatic. Im satisfied this means the clutch and transmission are much less likely to be 
affected by any driving style compared to a manual car. And I dont think its likely an 
automatic should suffer wear and tear to the point of failing under 20,000 miles.
These opinions are backed up by both the third party and manufacturers garage who said in 
communication with Miss E:
I have just spoke to (name) and he has advised he wouldnt of thought this is down to wear 
and tear and down to vehicle failure.
as discussed this is no relation to your driving style this is a fault found internal to the gear 
box
I can confirm that this fault has not occurred as a result of your driving style and that in now 
way (sic) can the clutch be ridden on an automatic car as this is electronically governed
Thinking about all of this, I havent seen enough to make me think how Miss E was driving 
the car has affected things.
Ive also considered what BMWFS said about the initial repairs being a misdiagnosis and 
that it should not therefore be responsible here. And I accept these repairs werent 
successful.
But, this doesnt tell the whole story. What I need to consider here is not the outcome of the 
repairs. I firstly need to decide whether Miss E acted reasonably by taking it to the garages 
she did, and then decide if the garages acted with reasonable care. I dont think its fair to 
say just because the repairs failed this means the garages were wrong to attempt them.Ive considered the third party garage Miss E took the car to. This garage was a specialist in 
the make of Miss Es car, has been in business for a number of years and I can see it carried 
out a diagnostic before it attempted repairs.
So, Im satisfied Miss E acted in good faith when she took the car here, and I havent seen 
enough to make me think the garage did anything wrong when it attempted a repair.
The car was then taken to a manufacturers garage. Thinking about this, I think they would 
most likely be in the best position to diagnose and repair the car. So, again, I think Miss E 
acted reasonably by taking the car here, and again I am not persuaded the garage acted 
unreasonably when it attempted repairs.
Importantly, I also havent seen anything to persuade me the supplying dealer wouldve 
attempted anything different to repair the car. It follows Im satisfied that the fact the repairs 
were unsuccessful doesnt mean BMWFS should not be responsible here.
Ive also considered what BMWFS said about the mileage of the car when Miss E got it. But 
whatever the mileage was on delivery, the key thing to consider is the mileage when it failed 
 which isnt in dispute. I still dont think the car shouldve failed when it did. So, this doesnt 
change my opinion.
Having reached the conclusion the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, I now need to consider 
what would be fair and reasonable to put things right.
Thinking about Miss Es rights under the CRA, I dont think a further repair would be 
appropriate. I say this as this situation has been going on for several months, and the CRA 
says in relation to repairs that these must be done:
within a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to the consumer
So, considering this, I agree with our investigator that Miss E has a right to reject the car. 
Miss E explained in response to the investigators view that she stopped driving the car at 
the beginning of November 2022. I think this is likely, as on an initial quick test log which I 
believe was from the manufacturers garage from the end of December 2022, the mileage is 
less than 100 more than when the car was looked at around six weeks prior. So Im satisfied 
its reasonable Miss E is reimbursed any repayments made since the car initially broke down 
rather than from January 2023.
I think Miss E acted reasonably and in good faith when she took the car for the repairs. So, I 
think these should be reimbursed, along with the recovery costs. While I have no reason to 
doubt Miss Es version of events, I have noted that the invoice for the work she says was 
paid for at the manufacturers garage is headed estimate. So, while I think its reasonable 
BMWFS should cover this, it only needs to do so when Miss E provides it with evidence this 
was paid  such as a bank statement or receipt. And I also think the same should apply for 
the diagnostic/collection cost of £230 a few days before.
I also agree with our investigator that Miss E has suffered significant distress and 
inconvenience because of whats happened. Shes explained the car has left her stranded at 
the roadside for a long period while awaiting recovery, at a time she was looking after a 
young family member. Shes explained having to resolve things has led to financial difficulty.
Shes had to take time and effort to try to get the car repaired and to organise other 
transport. And this situation has been ongoing for some time. I think BMWFS should pay 
Miss E £400 to reflect this.I gave both parties two weeks to come back with any further comments or information.
Miss E got in touch and said she agreed with the decision. And she sent in some further 
evidence of costs.
BMWFS didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about everything again, I still think this complaint should be upheld. This is 
for the same reasons I explained in my provisional decision and set out above.
I should note to Miss E that the further evidence of her costs she provided in response to my 
provisional decision could only be partly seen due to formatting issues  so shell still need to 
provide these to BMWFS.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct BMW Financial Services(GB) 
Limited trading as ALPHERA Financial Services to put things right by doing the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Collect the car at no cost to Miss E at a time and date suitable for her
Reimburse Miss Es advance payment of £1,000*
Reimburse Miss E all repayments made to the agreement from November 2022*
Reimburse Miss E £1,650 from the repair on 17 November 2022*
Reimburse Miss E £48 for the recovery from 18 November 2022*
Reimburse Miss E £230 for the diagnostic/collection from 16 December 2022 * **
Reimburse Miss E £1,222.58 for the repair from 19 December 2022 * **
Pay Miss E £400 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused
Remove any adverse information from Miss Es credit file
* These amounts should have 8% simple yearly interest added from the time of payment to 
the time of reimbursement. If BMWFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Miss E how much its taken 
off. It should also give Miss E a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
** On production of proof of payment, such as a receipt or bank statementUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman