DRN-2207478
The complaint
Mr I has complained about Unum Ltds decision to decline his claim under his employers 
group income protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mr I was a member of his employers group income protection insurance policy, held with 
Unum. The policy, after a deferred period of 52 weeks, would pay a regular benefit in the 
event that Mr I was unable to perform his occupation due to illness or injury.
In April 2018, Mr I stopped working due to anxiety and depression. He remained off work 
and his employer therefore made a claim on his behalf to Unum.
In March 2019, shortly before the end of the deferred period, Unum declined the claim. It 
considered that the medical evidence didnt support that Mr I was prevented by a medical 
condition from performing his occupation.
Mr I appealed against the decision and provided a letter from his GP.
In September 2019, Unum maintained its decision to decline the claim.
Mr I complained to Unum.
In October 2019, Unum issued its final response not upholding the complaint. After reviewing 
the evidence, it still thought that Mr I hadnt demonstrated the eligibility of his claim.
Mr I was unhappy at Unums decision. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He was satisfied 
that Unum had acted fairly in declining the claim.
Mr I didnt accept the investigators findings. He considered the evidence from his GP 
showed he had been suffering significantly from his condition for over a year before he first 
became absent from work and that he had remained incapacitated since then. He 
considered that Unum had provided no medical assessment to counter his GPs opinion and 
he therefore thought it had no reasonable grounds to decline his claim.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy will pay benefit if Mr I is medically prevented from performing the material and 
substantial duties of his occupation. The onus is on Mr I to prove his claim rather than on 
Unum to disprove it.
Mr I has referred to his state of health since February 2017. I have noted the GP records 
which go back to before this date. However, the crucial period for assessing the claim is from 
April 2018 when Mr I first became absent from work until April 2019 when the deferred 
period ended and benefit could become payable under the policy.
The GP records show that Mr I complained to his GP of being stressed in early 2018. His GP 
diagnosed anxiety with depression. He referred him to counselling and prescribed 
medication.
In April 2018, Mr I saw his GP and said things had got worse. His GP certified him as unfit to 
work and increased his medication. Mr I had not attended the counselling sessions and so 
had been discharged from these.
Over the following months, Mr I continued to see his GP who continued to sign him off work 
and, on occasion, varied his medication. Mr I did not seek a further referral to counselling 
from his GP but mentioned that he was able to access counselling through his employer.
In August 2018, the GP noted a slow improvement in Mr Is condition and that he was 
looking well. Mr I was apparently considering a return to work towards the end of the year.
In September 2018, Unum invited Mr I to make use of its vocational rehabilitation service. 
Mr I, however, did not agree to this and so the offer was eventually withdrawn. 
Mr I didnt consult his GP again until a telephone consultation to review his condition in 
November 2018 when he said he was looking to change his job in the new year to 
something more active.
Mr I had further GP consultations in January 2019 and March 2019 at which the GP 
continued to certify him as unfit to work.
In May 2019, following the end of the deferred period and after Unum had declined his claim, 
Mr I reported to his GP that he was feeling much worse. The GP write a letter in support of 
his claim, explaining that over the course of their consultations Mr I had reported symptoms 
including poor sleep, loss of appetite, tearfulness, poor concentration and suicidal thoughts. 
The GP said these symptoms had significantly impacted on Mr Is life and made it impossible 
for him to work. He said it could sometimes take a patient months or even years to recover in 
these situations.
Having examined the evidence, I think it was fair for Unum to decline the claim. There is very 
little evidence to show why Mr I was functionally prevented from returning to work. 
I acknowledge that his GP was certifying him as unfit and was prescribing medication but I 
would have expected to see something more than this. From August 2018 until the end of 
the deferred period the contemporaneous medical notes do not record much in the way of 
symptoms affecting Mr I. He consulted his GP whenever further sickness certification was 
required but his GP didnt really explain in the contemporaneous notes what symptoms were 
preventing Mr I from returning to work and there was no further change in his medication or 
referral to secondary treatment.
Mr I thinks that Unum should have taken further steps to establish his mental state before 
deciding on his claim. I have already explained that the onus is on Mr I to demonstrate that 
his claim is eligible. But I should point out that Unum was denied the opportunity to evaluate 
Mr I in September 2018 because he wouldnt co-operate with its vocational rehabilitation 
service. I should also point out that, before issuing its final decision, the case was reviewed by one of its company medical officers who is a qualified psychiatrist and who agreed with 
the decision to decline the claim. 
Overall, while the evidence shows Mr I has been experiencing a difficult time, I consider it is 
insufficient to demonstrate that he was medically unable to work throughout the 52 weeks 
deferred period. I therefore consider it was fair for Unum to decline his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman