DRN-3238248
The complaint
Mr T complains AXA Insurance UK Plc have settled a claim on his motor insurance policy, 
as a 50 / 50 liability, without speaking to him.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Ive copied the relevant sections of it below, 
and it forms part of this final decision.
In October 2019 Mr T was unfortunately involved in an incident where he says another driver 
reversed into the side of his car in a car park. Mr T says that at no time during the initial 
claim was there any mention of liability being in question. Mr T says he only found out 
because he was asking for information about an ongoing legal claim for injuries thatd been 
settled. That happened in April 2021.
AXA issued a response to Mr Ts complaint  saying his claim had gone to arbitration and it 
was agreed 50 / 50 liability was fair, but their communication had fallen below the standard 
they expected. For this, they awarded £75 compensation.
Mr T wasnt happy with this and asked us to look into things. He said he wasnt aware the 
issue had gone to arbitration, and AXA hadnt asked him whatd happened.
One of our Investigators considered things. Overall, he felt AXA had acted fairly regarding 
liability, and the £75 compensation for their poor communication was fair.
Mr T didnt agree. He said aside from the initial phone conversation AXA never asked him to 
provide anything  including photos he said would clearly show the other party reversed into 
him. Mr T said hed told them the other party admitted fault at the time, and as he didnt hear 
anything further, he thought the matter was resolved. Mr T felt if AXA had gathered more 
information from him, a different outcome would have been reached by the arbitrators. Mr T 
intended to take the other party to court over for a personal injury claim but said as the claim 
had now been settled on a 50 / 50 basis itd prejudice the court action. 
Mr T said at the scene there were witnesses, but as the other party admitted it, he didnt get 
their details. And he was never asked about CCTV, otherwise hed have got it. As Mr T didnt 
agree with our Investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
Before progressing matters, I saw Mr T said he had lots of additional information, but that 
hadnt been provided. So, I arranged to ask him for the photos and his detailed explanation 
of whatd happened. We also asked about his comments his personal injury claim had been 
compromised, as AXA said his solicitor had given different information. We asked for this 
information in mid-November, and then again at the start of December, with no reply. So, 
Ive progressed matters based on what Ive got currently.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain I cant decide whether AXA have reached the right decision on 
liability. But, I can consider whether theyve reached that decision fairly. And, if I think they 
havent, then I can require them to take further action. 
After reporting the incident in October 2019 AXA did send Mr T a letter saying We will, on 
your behalf, handle all aspects of this incident, making decisions on liability to third parties, 
their representatives or insurers as we see fit, subject to the incident being covered by your 
policy.
This is repeated in the policy terms. So, Im satisfied that AXA were allowed to settle the 
claim as they felt best. But I can see Mr Ts concerns are about not speaking to him to get 
his version of events, and not communicating with him. So, Ive looked at how they reached 
that decision.
I can see that initially AXA have disputed liability with the other insurer, and this continued 
until the arbitration took place on 5 November 2020.
From what both AXA and Mr T have said, its clear they didnt talk to him before the matter 
progressed to arbitration. Thats a process whereby a solicitor firm who isnt acting for either 
party takes a look at all the information thats been provided, to decide what they think a fair 
settlement is. Its from this process a 50 / 50 liability was decided.
In order for me to think this outcome might be unfair, Id need to be provided with information 
regarding that. But, Mr T hasnt provided the information he says he has  either when he 
first got in touch when we ask consumers to provide all the information theyd like us to 
consider, or more recently when Ive made arrangements for us to ask. 
Its possible the liability decision might have been different had AXA spoken to him and 
gathered his evidence, but without seeing what he says hes got, I cant know that. So, I can 
only look at AXAs actions  theyve disputed liability, and when the other insurer has also 
disputed it, theyve taken it to arbitration.
In the outcome notes from the arbitration company, its said both parties were reversing out 
of parking spaces, theres no independent witness or CCTV footage  and both parties have 
now considered equal blame may be the best way forward. Ive not seen anything on file to 
make me think this is clearly an unfair outcome on Mr T.
Regarding Mr Ts personal injury claim, hes said this had been prejudiced by AXAs decision 
to settle the claim on a 50 / 50 liability. But, AXA have recorded they spoke to Mr Ts 
solicitor, and said their decision hadnt prejudiced his personal injury claim. The arbitration 
paperwork also says The decision and/or recommendation within this report relates to First 
Party Insurer damage only. It has no binding standing in relation to uninsured losses such as 
Personal Injury, Credit Hire, policy excess and other Special Damages.
In thinking about the evidence Ive got, I cant reasonably say that AXAs decision has 
impacted Mr Ts personal injury claim.
Finally, I do think AXAs communication could have been much better, as theyve accepted. 
Theyve not spoken to Mr T about whats happened, and hes said this has had quite a 
severe impact on him. As Ive set out above, I dont currently have enough evidence to say 
what that impact is. So, in the absence of anything else, Im currently satisfied £75 
compensation is fair. I understand this compensation has already been paid to Mr T.Responses to my provisional decision
Neither Mr T, or AXA, replied by the deadline set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party replied by the deadline, Ive not been given any reason to change the 
outcome Ive reached on this case. So, for the reasons I explained in my provisional 
decision, Im satisfied AXA have treated Mr T fairly in the way they offered to resolve his 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman