DRN-4109347
The complaint
Mr O complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money didnt provide him with the 
service it should have when he wanted to transfer money from his account. 
What happened
In May 2022, Mr O called Virgin Money to make a transfer from his account. He initially 
complained that he was told he would need to visit a store to do this. He says this wasnt 
convenient and says he was told he would need to open a new account. Mr O says he 
opened the account, but he feels this account was mis-sold as he shouldnt have needed to 
open this in order to transfer his money.
Virgin Money issued a final response letter in September 2022. It said that when Mr O 
opened his original account he agreed to its terms and conditions which included only 
making faster payments in the UK over the phone if the customer has used the same 
payment details before. Otherwise, the customer will need to visit a store. It said that due to 
Covid it would allow customers who couldnt visit a store or write in to set up a new payee 
over the telephone but that the limit would be £500. Then, after three days a larger limit may 
be allowed.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She listened to the call on which the transfer of 
money was discussed and said that Mr O was told he couldnt transfer more than £500 and 
to transfer more he would need to visit a branch or write in. She said this was in line with the 
account terms and conditions. Mr O then asked about other accounts. 
Mr O didnt agree with our investigators view. He reiterated that he was told he would have 
to set up a new account in order to transfer his money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr O was frustrated that he couldnt make the transfer he wanted 
when he contacted Virgin Money. But for me to uphold this complaint I would need to be 
satisfied that Virgin Money had done something wrong or treated Mr O unfairly. In regard to 
Mr Os complaint, I do not find that is the case and I will explain why.
Mr O wanted to make a transfer to another account. He couldnt do this online and called 
Virgin Money. I have listened to the call and Mr O is asked if he has made a transfer to the 
account previously. He isnt sure that he has. Given this the adviser says that the maximum 
amount he can transfer is £500. Mr O isnt happy with this and is told that in order to transfer 
the larger amount he would need to visit a store or write in. I appreciate this isnt the 
response Mr O wanted but having looked at the account terms and conditions I can see that 
it explains that UK faster payments can be made over the phone but only if the customer has 
used the same payment details before and that new payments will need to be set up in store. 
Virgin Money has explained that due to Covid it did allow transfers of a maximum of £500 for 
customers who couldnt visit a store or write in. Given this I do not find I can say that the advice 
given to Mr O was incorrect. And as this was in line with the account terms and conditions I also 
cannot say that Mr O was being treated unfairly.
Mr O says that he was told he would need to open a new account in order to make the transfer. I 
do not have evidence of this advice being given. On the call the options of visiting a store and 
writing in are discussed. Mr O then asks about other accounts and information is provided about 
how a new current account could be opened. I have no further evidence to show Mr O was told 
this was what needed to happen in order to transfer his money and without this I cannot say he 
was told opening a new account was his only option.
I understand this situation has been frustrating for Mr O and I note his comments about opening 
a new account but this taking time and him needing to borrow money. But while I understand the 
points raised, as I cannot say that Virgin Money acted in a way that was outside of the terms and 
conditions or provided incorrect information about the options available for the transfer, I do not 
find I can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman