DRN-1979220
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in June 2000 alongside 
a store card. The PPI was added to the account at the same time Mrs C took out the card.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA), as the insurer, should accept responsibility 
for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Mrs C says AXA mis-sold her the PPI. Our adjudicator felt the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs C 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account in deciding Mrs Cs case.
I currently dont think the policy was mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of the store card application form Mrs C saw and signed. In this there is a section for
PPI where Mrs C signed to agree to the cover. Mrs C says that she wasnt told anything about the 
policy, but there was an X besides the PPI section, and she was instructed to sign on the form where 
indicated. Ive thought about what Mrs C has said, but ultimately it was her responsibility to read and 
consider what she was signing, and Ive not seen anything in this form which suggests Mrs C had to 
take out the cover or that she wouldnt be able to take out the store card without it. Ive seen that the 
PPI was listed on Mrs Cs store card statement, so I think if she didnt know she was agreeing to the 
PPI at the time of signing, she wouldve cancelled the policy when she saw this on her statements. 
So, I think it was clear the PPI was optional on her application form, and Mrs C signed in this section 
to agree to the cover.
In order to be eligible for the policy Mrs C had to be employed for more than 16 hours a week. There 
is no information about Mrs Cs employment at the time of sale on the store card agreement and 
Mrs C has provided conflicting information about her employment at the time. So, its difficult for me to 
make a finding on her employment. AXA asked Mrs C for evidence that she was working more than 
16 hours a week when she first complained to it, but Ive not seen that any evidence was provided. 
Most recently Mrs C told us she wasnt employed at the time the PPI was sold to her, and we asked 
for evidence of this and have given Mrs C enough time to produce this evidence, but at the time of 
writing, no evidence has been provided. So, Im not persuaded by what Mrs C has said and Ive not 
seen any evidence to support this either. Therefore, Ive not seen any other evidence that she was 
unemployed or working less than 16 hours a week, so I think its more likely than not that she was 
eligible for the policy.  
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt have to check if the policy was right for her. But it
did have to make sure Mrs C got the information she needed to decide if the PPI was right for her. Its 
possible the information FICL gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been, but 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, and on the basis that Im not persuaded 
she was unemployed at the time, it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover - so I think it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. And I 
dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Upon a successful claim the PPI wouldve paid 15% of Mrs Cs outstanding monthly balance until she
had returned to work or her outstanding balance had been paid off. Mrs C, at one point, told us that 
she wouldve received some sick pay from her employer. She also says she couldve relied on her 
partners income to make her repayments. But the PPI wouldve paid out for longer than Mrs C says 
her sick pay wouldve lasted and in addition to this. So, these funds couldve been used for other 
expenses. And even though Im sure Mrs Cs partner wouldve wanted to help her, there is no 
guarantee he wouldve been in the position to do so when she needed it. And so, l still think the policy 
wouldve been useful for her and I dont think better information wouldve put her off taking out the 
cover.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman