DRN-1388800
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) allowed him to use his credit card to 
gamble with. He feels Barclays were guilty of irresponsible lending by giving him the card in 
the first instance and that they ought to have prevented him from gambling with the card.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr A and Barclays, so there is no need for me to repeat them again here in 
any great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its 
relevant to the issues I need to deal with. 
Mr A applied for and obtained a credit card with Barclays in May 2014. He asked for a 
£10,000 credit limit and it was granted. He began using his card to gamble with in 
September 2014, and in July 2015 he contacted Barclays to tell them he was in financial 
difficulties. Barclays placed a hold on his account, froze interest, requested an income and 
expenditure schedule from him, and gave him contact details for their customer contact team 
and some free debt management companies. In August 2015 Mr A entered into an IVA.
Barclays looked into Mr As complaint but rejected it, as they considered they had not done 
anything wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to mediate individual disputes between consumers and businesses, and to award 
redress where it is appropriate.  
So I look at the issues raised and then consider all the available evidence in order to see if 
the business has acted fairly. I take into account both sides views in considering whether 
Barclays acted fairly. 
Our service doesnt have the power to make rules for financial businesses, direct that they 
change their processes, or punish them. That is for the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). We cant give businesses direction on policy or procedure. We can only say 
whether it is a policy or procedure which is being applied fairly and reasonably to all 
customers. The FCA takes a principles-based approach to conduct regulation and lets 
businesses choose how they incorporate those principles into the way they deal with 
customers. This is reflected in the remit the FCA has given this service under the Dispute 
Rules in the FCA Handbook. What we recommend however can influence how businesses 
review their policies.
There are essentially two issues here. First whether Barclays ought to have given Mr A the 
credit card at all, or with such a large limit, and secondly, whether it should have stopped Mr 
A from gambling in the way he did.When Mr A applied for his card the information he gave about his income, and the 
information Barclays received from other sources was analysed and assessed by them for 
affordability. Having done that Barclays concluded that Mr A should be given a card with his 
requested limit as his income and the information they had supported such a decision. So I 
can see that Barclays followed their procedure for assessing applications, and nothing arose 
which could have alerted them to any potential problem in giving the card to Mr A. So I cant 
say Barclays have acted unfairly or lent to Mr A irresponsibly.
Turning to the actual use of the card, the first important point to make is that gambling is a 
perfectly acceptable use of a credit card, and it is not for a card provider to say or restrict 
what a customer is able to use their card for. Many people do gamble responsibly. However, 
as our investigator has pointed out, circumstances can arise which could lead to a card 
provider being alerted to the fact that a customer may be in some financial difficulty and for 
them to be proactive in trying to help. But no such circumstances existed here which could 
have led Barclays to forming that view. Mr As account only went over limit on 24 June 2015, 
having been managed within limits previously, and just over a week later Mr A notified 
Barclays of his difficulties. It was at that point that Barclays offered the help and support Ive 
mentioned above. Before that they were unaware he had a problem.
I do appreciate that matters have changed this year on the issue of gambling using credit 
cards, but I am looking at the position as it was in 2014 and 2015, and I cant say Barclays 
did anything wrong then. And I cant judge Barclays actions then by todays standards.
Mr A has brought up the point that Barclays compensated him in May 2019 but this was not 
in relation to his use of the card for gambling. What Barclays did was to refund all interest 
charges and fees that were applied to all their customers accounts which had been placed 
in collections between October 2013 and July 2016, as well as giving each customer a 
£75.00 inconvenience payment. This was a blanket approach which they had agreed with 
the Financial Conduct Authority. So I cant say that this action in any way supports an 
argument that Barclays either lent irresponsibly to Mr A or were aware that he was in 
financial difficulty through gambling.
So, although Mr A will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Barclays has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman