DRN-4381626
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society refuses to refund a payment he made to an 
investment scammer.
What happened
Mr S found an investment opportunity online. After some discussion with the company he 
had found he agreed to pay £9,600 to buy three shipping containers which would then be 
leased on his behalf, giving potential returns on his investment of 10-12%. Mr S made this 
payment on 11 June 2019.
He received some returns on his investment in June 2019 and October 2019, but since then 
has been unable to get any meaningful response from the company he was dealing with, 
and has received no further investment returns.
In 2023 Mr S raised a complaint about this with Nationwide. He explained that he had been 
the victim of a scam and asked if Nationwide could refund his lost money. But Nationwide 
did not agree that what had happened was a scam, it felt this was a civil dispute between 
Mr S and the investment company, and so declined to refund Mr S loss. Mr S remained 
unhappy, so he referred his complaint to us.
One of our Investigators looked at what had happened and concluded that, contrary to 
Nationwides assessment, Mr S had most likely been the victim of a scam. They also felt 
that, given the size of the payment Mr S made, Nationwide should have asked him some 
searching questions to ensure he was not at risk of financial harm. However, they concluded 
that, taking account of the information Mr S had about the investment at the time, it was 
more likely than not that further questioning from Nationwide would not have brought the 
scam to light. So they felt Mr S would still have gone ahead with the payment, and that 
Nationwide could not have prevented his loss.
Mr S disagreed, so his case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our Investigator, and for the same 
reasons.
Its not disputed that Mr S authorised the payment that is in dispute. So as per the Payment 
Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant regulations in place here) that means Mr S 
is responsible for that payment.
Because of this, Mr S is not automatically entitled to a refund. But the regulatory landscape, 
along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for account providers to 
protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes monitoring accounts 
to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of financial harm, 
intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent customers falling 
victims to scams.
Taking the above into consideration, if Im satisfied that this was a scam, then I need to 
decide whether Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr S, or whether 
it should have done more than it did.
Ive first considered whether Mr S was indeed the victim of a scam, and Im satisfied he was. 
I say this because of the large volume of articles, reviews and comments available online 
from the last few years which consistently state that investors have received little to no return 
from the company in question and that it is very likely a scam company. Ive seen nothing 
that demonstrates to me that there was a legitimate investment here, and I think it is far 
more likely that this was a sophisticated and long running scam.
So on that basis, my next consideration is whether there were fraud triggers that ought to 
have prompted intervention from Nationwide.
I think the payment in question does stand out as sufficiently unusual when considering the
normal operation of Mr Ss account. Hed not made payments of this magnitude in the
months leading up to it and it was to a new payee with an international account. I therefore 
think Nationwide should have intervened directly  rather than relying on written warnings  
to ask Mr S some questions about the payment.
And while Nationwide had no duty to protect Mr S from a bad bargain or give investment 
advice, I think it should have asked him some suitable probing questions to find out whether 
he was likely to be at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
Investment scams tend to carry common features. For example, these can include rates of 
return which are too good to be true, receiving the opportunity to invest via an unsolicited 
offer and cold call, fraudsters applying pressure to their victims to invest quickly and not 
allowing them to withdraw their funds.
Against this backdrop Id have expected Nationwide to ask Mr S some questions to see if 
there were any signs that this was an investment scam (as described above). Had it done 
so, Im persuaded Mr F wouldve explained he was buying shipping containers with the 
intention to lease them out for a return on his investment, as he doesnt appear to have been 
coached by the scammer to lie about what he was making the payment for. Id then have 
expected Nationwide to perhaps ask questions such as how Mr S found this investment 
opportunity, what paperwork he might have received about it, and whether hed done any 
research into the company he was dealing with.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr S wouldve said in response. Of course, I cant
know for sure, so Ive thought about what I think is more likely than not to have happened,
taking into account the particular circumstances of this case.
This appears to have been a sophisticated investment scam. The scam company had a 
legitimate looking website, corresponded with Mr S for an extended period prior to his 
investment, and provided Mr S with detailed and consistent paperwork regarding his 
investment. There also werent any warnings recorded about this company by the Financial 
Conduct Authority. And Mr S had found the investment opportunity himself, he hadnt been 
cold called or otherwise contacted out of the blue and asked to invest. 
 
So given that there dont appear to have been any clear hallmarks that this might be a scam 
at the time Mr S invested, overall I think its more likely than not Nationwide wouldve been satisfied Mr S wasnt at risk of falling victim to an investment scam. And from what Mr S has 
shown us he had received at the time, I think Mr S wouldve most likely felt comfortable 
continuing with the payment.
So, with all this in mind, Im not persuaded intervention from Nationwide wouldve made a 
difference and prevented Mr Ss loss in the particular circumstances of this case.
I also dont think Nationwide had the option to recover the payment. Mr S doesnt appear to 
have flagged it as a scam with Nationwide until several years after the payment took place. 
Nonetheless, Nationwide contacted the receiving bank to see if any funds could be 
recovered, but it confirmed that no funds remained by that time.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr S, but for the reasons explained I dont consider 
that it would be fair or reasonable to ask Nationwide to refund Mr S losses.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman