DRN-4443981
The complaint
Mr Vs complaint is about a claim he made on his Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) legal 
expenses insurance policy.
Mr V says that Aviva treated him unfairly by declining his claim.
All references to Aviva include their claims handlers.
What happened
Mr V made a claim on his Aviva legal expenses insurance policy for cover to bring a claim in 
respect of two disputes about service charges he was liable to pay. Aviva asked Mr V for 
further information about his claims, including the background to them.
After Mr V provided that information Aviva, Aviva said they werent prepared to cover his 
claims. They concluded the initial dispute or incident leading to the claims happened before 
cover started, which was excluded by the policy and the information Mr V had provided them 
with supported that was the case.
Mr V didnt agree. He said his current claims were 1. in respect of a change in the 
apportionment of service charges applicable to his property in 2022 which related to a 
specific bill for that year and, 2. following staircasing of 100% in 2022, he received an even 
higher bill from another party for his service charges, which he felt was open to challenge. 
Mr V says this is distinct from the earlier dispute he had about service charges before the 
policy was in place. He says that dispute was about the increase to service charge budgets 
after he moved into his property in 2019. Hes also said that his current claims are in against 
two different parties but accepts that one of them is against the original party he was in 
dispute with before the policy was in place. 
Overall Mr V feels his claims are different and that its unfair that Aviva took the view they 
arise out of a previous dispute, when theyre unconnected to that. 
Our investigator considered Mr Vs complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. She said 
that although the specific disputes Mr V wanted to claim for were different, they still followed 
another dispute which predated the policy and amounted to the first in the series of events in 
relation to service charge disputes.
Mr V doesnt agree with the investigators findings. He feels its unfair to group all of his 
disputes about service charges together when they are different and are against different 
parties. Because of this the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr Vs complaint. Ill explain why.
The starting point is the policy terms. They say:
Where does the issue/incident need to have happened to be covered under the 
policy?
The incident leading to any claim or any proceedings must have happened within the United 
Kingdom, Channel Islands or Isle of Man, and the initial dispute, or series of incidents 
leading to a claim on this policy must happen after this cover starts and before it ends as 
shown on your Schedule
So, the issue for me to determine is whether the earlier dispute Mr V had about service 
charges amounts to an initial dispute or first in the series leading to these present claims. 
As a general rule, you take out insurance cover for something which may or may not happen
in the future. So, in my judgment, it isnt unfair in principle for a legal expenses insurer to
exclude claims for things which started to happen before cover began. There are special
policies available which are designed to cover such disputes, but this isnt one of them.
Mr Vs policy with Aviva started in April 2021 and though Mr V says the event which gave
rise to his claims happened during the period of insurance, I dont agree. 
Having considered all the documents hes submitted to Aviva, Im satisfied that the problems
he had in relation to service charges more generally started in 2019. Mr V doesnt dispute 
this. What he disputes however is how the current claims hes made can be said to be the 
initial dispute or first in a series of incidents leading to his current claims. My view is they 
can. In 2019, Mr V said:
 I filed a request to receive the detailed accounts of the 2018/2019 actual service 
charges. Over the span of 8 months, (the third party) consistently fail to provide the 
information requested. They essentially indicate that they have not yet audited the actual 
expenditures and therefore have made the budget into the actual amount. I am therefore 
now dealing with (1) the impression that 251.60 GBP per month for 2018/2019 is too high, 
and that the increase to 259 GBP for 2019/2020 is completely unsubstantiated. It is also at 
this time that other residents in the block start escalating the service charge issue as they 
have been chasing it for years with no evidence of actual costs, and no justification of very 
significant budget increases.
It's clear to me that the issue he was unhappy with was about at the time was an increase in 
service charges. Whatever the reason given for that at the time by the third party, doesnt to 
my mind make much difference. All three of his disputes are essentially about him having to 
pay more than he thinks he should. And Mr V might be right about that- but that doesnt 
mean Aviva need to cover his claims. The term Aviva have relied on is very common and is 
intended to limit cover for disputes that started to happen before cover was in place. In this 
case, Mr Vs disputes all concern the same common issue- dissatisfaction with the amount 
of service charges he needs to pay. I accept there are differing reasons in each case and 
that one of his current claims is against another party. But I dont think that changes anything 
about the meaning and effect of the term relied on by Aviva here. As such I cant say that 
Aviva are responsible for funding his claims.
Mr V has commented on some advice he said received when he initially made his claim to 
Avivas legal helpdesk. He says he was told to tell the parties he was claiming against that 
he was taking legal action. I dont have details of the call Mr V says he made but this issue 
also didnt form the basis of his complaint to this Service. Without Aviva addressing it 
properly- with reference to the call itself- it wouldnt be fair for me to determine the matter. 
Finally, Mr V has asked for clarity on the application of this term in circumstances where 
different claims are made against the same party both before and after cover is in place. I cant comment on hypothetical situations. We determine complaints on their own facts so 
whilst I appreciate why my decision will be disappointing for Mr V, I hope Ive provided him 
with a thorough explanation of why his complaint isnt being upheld. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint against Aviva Insurance 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr v to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman