DRN-2880284
The complaint
Mr P complains that Capital One (Europe) plc applied excessive interest and charges to his 
credit card account.
What happened
In August 2016, Mr P took out a credit card with Capital One. In December 2017, he 
exceeded his agreed credit limit. So, Capital One applied a charge in line with its terms and 
conditions. The next month, in January 2018, Mr P failed to make his minimum contractual 
repayment. He then continued to miss his repayments until May 2018, when Capital One 
restricted the credit card and prevented Mr P from using it any further. Capital One applied a 
missed payment charge each month that Mr P didnt make a repayment until it restricted his 
card.
  
Throughout this time Capital One attempted to contact Mr P several times by phone to 
discuss his account, but it couldnt reach him. It also wrote to Mr P and let him know his 
credit card was in arrears. Finally, Capital One sent Mr P a notice of default in June 2018 
before defaulting the credit card account in July. Mr Ps debt was eventually sold to a third 
party in February 2019.
 
In May 2020, Mr P wrote to Capital One to complain about his credit card. He felt an 
excessive level of interest and charges had been applied to his account. Capital One sent its 
final response letter to Mr P on 19 May. It said the charges and interest had been applied 
fairly and in line with its terms and conditions. Further, Capital One explained the debt had 
been sold  and it provided the details of the agent which owned the debt. Capital One also 
provided Mr P with some contact information for services which may be able to assist him if 
he was in financial difficulty.
 
Mr P was unhappy with Capital Ones response, so he referred his complaint to our service 
and an investigator here considered what had happened. In summary, the investigator didnt 
think Capital One had done anything wrong. He said the charges and interest had been 
applied fairly. Further, the investigator said hed seen that Capital One had actively tried to 
speak with Mr P about his credit card, and it had made him aware  each time  of the 
charges and interest being applied.
 
Mr P disagreed with the investigator  he said that Capital One had made its product 
unsuitable for him, which had caused financial difficulties. Given this was new information, 
the investigator asked Mr P to further explain what hed said. But Mr P simply said that his 
previous statement spoke for itself, and hed like an ombudsmans decision.
 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I should be clear that Ive only considered the interest and charges which Mr P 
feels was excessive.
When Mr P responded to our investigators opinion, he said that Capital One had made its 
product unsuitable for him  causing financial difficulty. The investigator asked Mr P for 
further information about these points but, from what Ive seen, hes not provided anything. 
And further, from the evidence I have available, Ive not seen that Mr P has raised these 
issues with Capital One directly  so Ive not commented on them in this decision.
 
First, Ive looked at the terms and conditions which governed Mr Ps credit card. Capital One 
has provided me with a copy of the credit agreement Mr P signed in 2016  and Ive seen it 
sets out when certain charges will be applied.
 
Specifically, it sets out quite clearly that a charge of £12 will be applied if a customer 
exceeds their credit limit, pays late or doesnt pay at all. So, given Mr P did exceed his credit 
limit, and then failed to pay anything towards the debt for several months afterwards, it 
seems Capital One applied the charges in line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
And in the circumstances, I think thats reasonable.
 
Next, Ive considered whether Capital One provided Mr P with enough information about the 
charges. Capital One has provided copies of Mr Ps statements from around the time the 
charges were applied  and Ive seen that these set out the charges and let Mr P know what 
they were for.
 
Capital One has also shown that it sent Mr P Notice of Sum in Arrears letters  which 
outlined the previous repayments hed missed and was still due to make. Further, 
Capital One also sent Mr P a notice and a statement of default. And throughout the period in 
question, Ive seen from Capital Ones contact notes that it tried to contact him regularly by 
phone to discuss the account  but it couldnt reach him.
 
With all of that in mind, Im satisfied Capital One took practical steps to make sure Mr P 
knew about the charges being applied to his card, and what they were for. I also think it was 
clear about the payments Mr P was required to make, and the consequences of not doing 
so. And, finally, I think it made reasonable attempts to speak with Mr P about his account.
Turning to the interest applied to Mr Ps credit card, the credit agreement sets out that 
interest will be charged on purchases unless the balance is repaid in full. And, from 
reviewing Mr Ps statements, it seems thats what happened here.
 
Overall, while I understand Mr Ps frustration, I think Capital One were clear about his 
contractual obligations throughout. And I dont think it acted unfairly or unreasonably by 
applying the terms and conditions of Mr Ps account. I appreciate what Ive said will likely 
come as a disappointment to Mr P, but I hope my explanation helps him to understand how 
Ive reached this conclusion.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman