DRN-3183939
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the advice he was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited (an
Appointed Representative of Alexander David Securities Limited) to switch his pension to a
SIPP (Self Invested Personal Pension) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
What happened
Mr S, through his representative, complained to Alexander David Securities Limited in 
February 2020. I understand Alexander David didnt acknowledge or respond to the 
complaint. The representative subsequently referred it to us and it was passed to one of our 
investigators to consider.
The investigator asked Alexander David for its files and to provide any other evidence it
wanted us to take into account. However no files or evidence or arguments were received.
The investigator therefore sent her assessment of the complaint to both parties based on the
evidence that was available.
The investigator said she had spoken to Mr S who told her that he had been cold called by 
St Pauls Marketing in 2016 and offered a pension review. She said at the time he was in his 
early fifties and he had a personal pension valued at £15,212. Mr S had said he 
remembered receiving a number of phone calls about his pension and was persuaded
to transfer it. Hed said he was not an experienced investor and at the time understood this 
was his only pension provision and he had no other investments  albeit he had discovered 
hed got another pension in 2021. 
The investigator said she understood Mr S wouldve been provided with promotional material 
relating to an investment in debentures issued by Just Loans. Mr S had said he remembered 
being told that he could achieve £3,000-£4,000 in growth within three years.
A SIPP was set up in February 2016 and £14,750.50 was transferred to it. The investigator 
said she understood a stockbrocking account was then set up and the money in the SIPP 
invested in the Just Loan debentures. 
The investigator said she thought from the information that had been provided that it was 
likely that St Pauls Marketing had recommended the investment to Mr S, providing him with 
all the information about the debentures and the benefits of transferring his existing pension 
to the SIPP. Mr S had said he didnt meet anyone face to face, and everything relating to the 
transfer was discussed over the telephone. She said given Mr S was inexperienced with 
matters relating to pensions and investments, she thought St Pauls Marketing had 
persuaded him to transfer during the calls it had with him. She said that as she thought St 
Pauls Marketing had advised Mr S on the investment, shed considered whether it was 
suitable for his circumstances. 
The investigator said Mr S was in his early 50s, and at the time believed this was his only 
pension provision that he would rely on in retirement. He had no other investments or 
previous experience of investing apart from his pension. She said he was a low risk investor 
who couldnt afford any loss in the value of his funds. The investigator said investing his 
pension in a new and untested business lacked diversification, was high risk, and was an 
unusual retirement investment strategy. She thought it was clearly unsuitable in Mr S 
circumstances.
Taking this into account, she said investing the pension fund into high risk bonds wasnt in 
line with Mr S objectives at the time. And an adviser providing a recommendation in the best 
interests of their client should have identified this. She said Mr S had no investment 
experience or capacity for loss, so wasnt the type of investor the investment was suitable 
for. 
The investigator said that St Pauls Marketing had arranged the investment and in the 
circumstances of it COBS (Conduct of Business Sourcebook) rule 10.2.1 applied. This said, 
in summary, that when providing a service to which the chapter applied, a firm must ask the 
client to provide information regarding his knowledge and experience in the investment field 
relevant to the specific type of product or service offered or demanded so as to enable the 
firm to assess whether the service or product envisaged was appropriate for the client. It 
went onto say that when assessing appropriateness, a firm must determine whether the 
client has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved 
in relation to the product or service offered or demanded.
The investigator said that on other similar cases she had seen, St Pauls Marketing had said 
It wasnt responsible for the action taken by the consumers. However she thought that but 
for St Pauls Marketings involvement, which wasnt just limited to promotion, it was unlikely 
that the consumers would have gone ahead with the investment.
The investigator referred to the Regulators Principles for Business which she said firms had 
to follow. These said that a firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence; 
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly; manage conflicts of 
interest fairly, both between itself and its customers and between a customer and another 
client, and take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and discretionary 
decisions for any customer who was entitled to rely upon its judgment.
The investigator didnt think St Pauls Marketing had followed these Principles. She said if it 
had done so St Pauls Marketing wouldnt have recommended the investment to Mr S. And 
as a result of St Pauls Marketings involvement, Mr S had been disadvantaged. The 
investigator went on to set out how she thought St Pauls Marketing should calculate and pay 
Mr S fair compensation.
The investigator sent her assessment of the complaint to Alexander David on 12 November 
2021. However it didnt provide a response. The investigator e-mailed both parties on 26 
November 2021 explaining that the complaint would be passed to an ombudsman to review 
and make a final decision.
Alexander David didnt respond. 
Mr S representative said it had provided all the information it held.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for largely the 
same reasons.Alexander David didnt respond to Mr S original complaint or to the investigators requests
for information. So theres only very limited evidence available to establish what happened at
the time of the transfer and investment.  
Ive carefully considered the evidence that is available, including Mr S recollections of
events. The investigator set out her thoughts on the matter in her assessment, and 
Alexander David hasnt disputed what she said or provided any further evidence or 
arguments.
I think its clear that following St Pauls Marketing involvement and input Mr S transferred his 
pension to the SIPP and invested in the debentures. In my experience its unusual for 
someone of Mr S background and experience to want to transfer an existing pension in 
order to invest in this type of investment without prompting. I think it was unlikely to have 
happened without the involvement of St Pauls Marketing. On the balance of the evidence 
provided, Im satisfied that it initiated the transfer and investment in the debentures. It was 
aware of where the investment was going to be made and facilitated it.
The investigator said she thought from the information that had been provided that it was 
likely that St Pauls Marketing had recommended the investment to Mr S. She also thought 
the debentures were unsuitable for the reasons I outlined above. And the firm hasnt 
disputed this. I note that when Mr S complained to Alexander David through his 
representative in February 2020 they said Mr S had no previous investment experience and 
no knowledge of the financial markets or pensions. And at the time of the advice he had a 
low capacity for loss and low attitude to risk. Alexander David didnt respond to this 
complaint either. 
In all the circumstances and on the balance of the limited evidence that is available, like the 
investigator, I think its more likely than not that St Pauls Marketing did advise Mr S to 
transfer and invest in the debentures. And given the significant risks presented by the 
investment, I dont think it was suitable for Mr S in his circumstances, particularly given he 
has said that he was a low risk taker, with no investment experience, and no other savings 
and investments.
However, even if St Pauls Marketing didnt give advice to Mr S, on the balance of the 
evidence, I think its likely it was involved in arranging the transaction. The debentures were 
a non-readily realisable security and in the circumstances COBS 10 required St Pauls 
Marketing to assess Mr S knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the 
specific type of product or service offered or demanded so that it could assess whether the 
debentures were appropriate for him.
Mr S said he had little investment experience. Ive seen no evidence to suggest this wasnt 
the case. And Alexander David hasnt disputed this. The debentures presented significant 
risks. In my view they werent appropriate for Mr S given his knowledge and experience and 
this should have been clear to St Pauls Marketing.
I also dont think the firm met its obligations under the regulators Principles for Business; it 
failed to act in Mr S best interests by not ensuring the investment was appropriate for Mr S. 
And it failed to ensure the suitability of its advice, which I think Mr S was entitled to rely on.
Taking all the circumstances of the transaction into account, I think it was clear that the
debentures werent suitable or appropriate for Mr S. Im satisfied that if St Pauls Marketing
hadnt advised Mr S to transfer and invest in the debentures, or if it had told him they werent
suitable or appropriate for him, he wouldnt have transferred and invested in them.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls Marketings failures caused Mr S to transfer andinvest in a product that he would otherwise not have invested into. Im satisfied its failures
caused the losses that Mr S has claimed.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr S as close as possible
to the position that he would probably now be in but for the firms failings. I think Mr S would 
have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would have done, but I 
am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr S circumstances 
and objectives when he invested.
What should Alexander David do?
To compensate Mr S fairly Alexander David Securities Limited should compare the 
performance of Mr S investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If the fair value is
greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value
is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Alexander David Securities Limited should also pay any interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Alexander David Securities Limited should pay into Mr S pension plan to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander David Securities 
Limited shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Mr S pension
plan it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan it
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional
allowance should be calculated using Mr S actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his
selected retirement age.
I think Mr S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at his selected retirement age, so the
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr S would have been able
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, Alexander David should:
Pay Mr S £250 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter has 
caused him.
Provide details of the calculation to Mr S in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities 
Limited considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much it has taken off. It should also give   
Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.investment 
name status Benchmarkfrom
(start date)     to
(end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP closed for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate of 
transferDate of 
closure 8% simple
per year on
any loss
from the
end date to
the date of
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual transfer value of the SIPP at the end date (the date of closure).
Fair value
This is what the transfer value would have been worth at the end date had it grown in line
with the benchmark. 
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Alexander 
David should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
They should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value calculation from the 
point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of 
the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases 
to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on.
Why is this remedy suitable?
In his complaint Mr S said he was a low risk taker. In all the circumstances, I dont think
Mr S would have transferred but for St Pauls Marketings failures. But his existing pension
was invested in funds presenting a greater degree of risk than he has said he was prepared
to accept. So I think its likely he would have switched to funds better aligned to his risk
profile if suitable advice had been given. I dont know exactly how he would have invested.
But I think the index I have outlined above is an appropriate benchmark and is a reasonable
proxy for the level of risk that Mr S was willing and able to take.
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr S risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was only 
prepared to take a limited level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr S into that position.
It doesnt mean that Mr S would have invested 50% in some kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather I consider this is a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects 
the sort of return Mr S could have obtained from investments suited to his objectives 
and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint. I order Alexander David Securities Limited
to calculate and pay compensation to Mr S on the basis I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022. 
David Ashley
Ombudsman