DRN-3769936
The complaint
Miss M has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) unreasonably refused to refund a 
total of £1,500 transactions from her bank account, which she said she didnt recognise or 
do. 
What happened
Miss M told BOS on 1 May 2022 that two unrecognised transactions had been made to a 
money transfer company on 28 April 2022 from her bank account which she didnt do and 
that she didnt recognise. One was for £500 and the other was for £1,000.
The transactions were carried out online from Miss Ms home IP address using her card 
details including the CVV. 
BOS said the transactions took place using Miss Ms phone which was registered to her 
account. And the IP address was Miss M home IP address. Miss M said no one else but her 
had access to her device or had the log in details including any passcodes. She still had her 
card and phone and neither had been lost or misplaced. On this basis BOS said it was 
unable to establish how an unknown third party or fraudster would have been able to access 
her phone and complete the payments using her debit card details. So, it didnt uphold her 
complaint. It also explained that sometimes customers made payments in exchange for good 
and services and then realised they were the victim of a scam which are dealt differently by 
the bank. It noted that Miss M was clear she had not made these payments at all. 
Miss M then brought her complaint to us. The investigator was of the view that BOS hadnt 
done anything wrong in not upholding Miss Ms complaint. As Miss M disagreed, her 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so. Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
First, I know and appreciate that Miss M will be deeply disappointed with my decision. And I 
also want to thank her to the extensive efforts she went to in order to explain her position. 
The regulations under which complaints of this nature are governed are called the Payment 
Service Regulations (PSRs).  Under the PSRs banks can only be liable for unauthorised 
transactions.  A transaction is deemed authorised if the payer has consented to the 
execution of the transaction. The concept of consent under the PSRs is formal one. So, its 
objective and not what Miss M subjectively knew either. A transaction is deemed to be have 
been consented to if the transaction is made in accordance with the procedure the bank 
requires, namely the card and CVV details. Consumers like Miss M here are duty bound to 
keep these details safe too under the PSRs.
Here in Miss Ms case this is the online payment using the details on her debit card with a 
device registered to her account and an IP address that is hers also. In a dispute like this 
case, BOS needs to show that the payments were authenticated which is the proper use of 
Miss Ms card which happened with these disputed transactions, give the use of her card 
details and the CVV. When this happens as it did in Miss Ms situation BOS are under an 
obligation to make the payments, which it did. 
Miss M said she didnt lose her card. She also said her card details including the CVV were 
stored on her phone. But that no one else has these details.  But she also confirmed she 
hadnt lost her phone either and neither did anyone else have access to her phone. She said 
she never did these transactions. There is no evidence that she felt that she might have 
been scammed into doing them either. 
I appreciate the police told her broadband had been hacked and there were some phishing 
issues with her phone. But that doesnt show me how someone was able to log into her Miss 
Ms internet banking. 
Here is what happened looking at the statements of Miss Ms bank account on the day these 
transfers happened which is most definitely 28 April 2022 and not as BOS said 30 April 
2022. And incidentally I think the reference to Miss M using a fingerprint to access her phone 
is simply how the app was originally coded. I think its simply biometrics like Face ID. Miss M 
said her phone doesnt have fingerprint access and I have no reason to doubt her.
15.52  £100 transfer in from savings to current account using the mobile banking
16.20  Login to the mobile banking using biometrics
16.32  Login to the mobile banking using biometrics
*16.37 - £500 payment by card to the money transfer company*
16.42  £400 transfer made from savings to current account using mobile banking
17.35 - £600 transfer made from savings to current account using mobile banking
17.43  Login to mobile banking using biometrics
*17.43 - £1,000 payment made by card to money transfer company*
17.59  Login to mobile banking using biometrics
18.26  Login to mobile banking using biometrics
19.37  Login to mobile banking using biometrics
20.23  Login to mobile banking using biometrics
And there was also another transfer from the savings account on 29 April 2022. 
Its more usual for IP addresses to be spoofed rather than hacked. So, it could be possible to 
look like youre using a different IP address than the one that shows up. However here its 
clear that it was Miss Ms phone doing the transactions. And the phone would have been 
necessary to access the online banking to transfer the funds from the saving account to the 
current account before using the debit card to make the disputed transfers. Its also very 
remote there was a trojan on Miss Ms phone. But even if there was, then why not take the 
funds directly rather than setting up payments to the money transfer company since its clear 
access was available to the online banking too given the transactions above. 
Miss M told us after she received the investigators view that she was away for a day or so in 
a caravan. She explained that she likes to check her bank account on a regular basis but 
that isnt daily. And it took a few days to see these transactions. 28 April 2022 was a 
Thursday. However, Miss M said she was away on the Saturday which would have been 30 
April and didnt seen these transactions until the Sunday 1 May. And she reported them after 
that. She said she logged in quickly on the Saturday to make a bank transfer to her dog 
walker but didnt look at any pending transactions as she was in shared company. However, 
these transactions took place two days before she was away on the Saturday. Therefore, on balance given all the evidence and indeed working through varying date 
anomalies I consider there isnt sufficient evidence to show me that an unknown fraudster 
was able to access Miss Ms current and saving accounts to effect these disputed payments 
to a money transfer company using the correct details on her card and using the phone 
registered to her bank account with the her usual IP address being used. On that basis its 
not unreasonable for BOS to hold her liable for the transactions.
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman