DRN-3449680
The complaint
Ms K is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC wont reimburse her the money shes lost after she 
fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
On 22 January 2021, Ms K received an email from a scammer purporting to be from a 
cryptocurrency broker  who Ill refer to as C. The email referred to a previous investment 
reaching a balance of $12,400. 
Ms K told us shed heard of C six months prior and shed transferred £250 to C. 
The email said the Bitcoin price had increased from $12,000 to $41,000 during November to 
December. It said it had applied for the withdrawal of Ms Ks account and that this had been 
confirmed. It told Ms K it wanted to assist her in the process of sending the money back to 
her bank account and asked for a time to speak. 
Following the email (which Ms K thought was about an earlier investment shed made of 
£250), she spoke with the scammer by phone. During this phone conversation, Ms K was 
told in order to receive the return shed made shed need to open a cryptocurrency account 
with a cryptocurrency exchange - who Ill refer to as B. Ms K says she was informed once 
shed opened an account with B, C would then help her send the money over to her bank 
account. 
Ms K proceeded and set up an account with B via its website. The scammer told Ms K that in 
order to receive the investment return shed need to mirror the amount by adding money to 
her cryptocurrency account and that this was standard procedure. 
Access to Ms Ks online banking was requested by the scammer but Ms K didnt allow this. 
Ms K did inform Barclays that she gave screen access to the scammer so that they could 
guide her to make payments from B to the scammers cryptocurrency account/wallet. 
Ms K proceeded to make a number of payments. For ease I have set out the payments and 
other account activity that relates to the scam in the table below. 
Date Time Transaction Amount 
26/01/2021 13:20 Faster payment out (FPO) to B £55.00
26/01/2021 13:24 Credit from B £53.50
26/01/2021 13:26 FPO to B £500
26/01/2021 13:32 Credit from B £498.50
26/01/2021 13:36 FPO to B £2,000
26/01/2021 13:52 FPO to B £1,142
26/01/2021 14:36 FPO to B £2,341
26/01/2021 14:52 FPO to B £2,341
26/01/2021 15:49 Blocked FPO to B £8,834
26/01/2021 15:49 Blocked FPO to B £8,800
26/01/2021 15:49 Blocked FPO to B £5,000
26/01/2021 15:50 Blocked FPO to B £4,000
26/01/2021 15:50 Blocked FPO to B £4,000
26/01/2021 15:51 FPO to B £1,000
06/04/2021 09:37 Credit from B £998.50
Total loss: £7,828.50
As shown in the table above, on 26 January 2021, Ms K made an initial payment of £55 to 
her account with B but she says this was returned to her bank account. A credit for £53.50 
from B was received into her Barclays account after the initial payment. Ms K then made 
another payment of £500 to B where another credit of £498.50 was received into the 
Barclays account shortly after. Ms K then made a further four payments of £2,000, £1,142, 
£2,341 and £2,341. No further credits were received following these payments. 
Ms K explains she was told by C there were problems with B and that someone would be in 
contact with her. Shortly afterwards Ms K received a call from someone purporting to be 
from B. She was told further payments were needed in order to access her investment 
returns  that she needed to make a further payment of £8,000 to B and that once shed 
done so, shed get back all her money  the investment return, the payments shed already 
made (as outlined above), along with the further £8,000. 
Ms K attempted to make further payments of £8,834, £8,800, £5,000, £4,000 and £4,000 the 
same day to B but these were blocked because shed exceeded her daily limit on mobile 
banking. But a payment of £1,000 was successful. 
Ms K said the caller claiming to be from B said theyd call back the following day so that the 
remaining amount could be sent. Ms K said it was at this point, she didnt think things were 
right. She contacted both the police and Barclays to report the scam. She contacted 
Barclays around 18:09 on 26 January 2021 to ask for its help. Barclays contacted B but 
unfortunately it received a response to say no funds remained. Barclays doesnt consider it 
is liable for the money Ms K lost as she confirmed she set up the cryptocurrency account the 
money was sent to (B) and, then moved the funds on from this account to the scammer. It 
concludes the loss occurred on Ms Ks cryptocurrency account with B. Barclays add that no 
contact was made with Ms K about the unsuccessful payments noted above as these didnt 
go through due to her reaching the daily limit on mobile banking and not because of fraud or 
scam concerns. 
Barclays also didnt think the payments were out of character for Ms Ks account as shed 
made high value payments in December 2020. Ms K selected the payment purpose 
investment when setting up the payee. Barclays also adds that a warning was shown which 
Ms K ignored. 
In April 2021 Ms K logged into her account with B and saw there was £1,000 in the account. 
She withdrew this and £998.50 was credited to her Barclays account on 6 April 2021. 
As Ms K remained unhappy with the outcome, she referred her complaint to our service 
where it was reviewed by an Investigator. 
After reviewing the evidence from both parties, the Investigator thought Barclays ought to 
have done more and that it missed an opportunity to discuss the payments Ms K was asking 
to make in more detail. Had it done so, she thought the scam would have been prevented 
and Ms K wouldnt have lost all the money she sent as part of the scam. However, when 
considering whether Ms K had acted reasonably when making the payments, she felt she 
should share some of the liability for her loss. On this basis, our Investigator concluded Barclays should refund 50% of Ms Ks outstanding loss, from and including the fourth 
payment made, plus pay 8% simple interest on that amount. 
Barclays disagreed with the Investigators assessment and so the matter has now been 
passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at what I think is the heart of the matter here, being; should Barclays have 
recognised the payments Ms K made as being suspicious and intervened, and if it had done 
so, would it have made a difference to what happened. 
Under the relevant regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and 
conditions, banks should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. 
The starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if 
they were duped into doing so, for example as part of an investment scam. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably 
to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customer as a result. 
There is no debate that Ms K fell victim to a scam. There is also no debate that Ms K made 
the payments from her Barclays account herself. So this means that the payments are 
authorised, and that Ms K is liable for them, unless there is evidence that Barclays could and 
should reasonably have done more to protect her. 
Ms K attempted to make 12 payments as a result of this scam. Five of these payments were 
blocked because shed exceeded her daily limit on mobile banking, but seven payments 
were successfully made to the account Ms K set up with B. Ms K received in total three 
credits back from her account with B. As highlighted within the table above, she received 
credits following the first and second payments. After logging into her account with B in 
April 2021, Ms K saw there was £1,000 in the account, which she moved back into her 
Barclays account. Ms Ks provided the transaction history from her account with B. From 
this, on balance, Im satisfied the £1,000 payment didnt go anywhere once in her account 
with B. So, this means the £1,000 payment doesnt form part of Ms Ks outstanding loss.
Ive carefully considered whether the payments Ms K made ought to have triggered the 
banks security systems and whether Barclays ought to have questioned whether Ms K was 
at risk of financial harm and intervened. 
Barclays maintain the payments Ms K made werent out of character for her account usage 
and have highlighted previous high value payments she made to new payees in 
December 2020 (the month prior to the scam payments). It added that Ms K made two 
payments totalling £50,000 in one day, therefore, it is not out of character for her to make 
multiple high value payments on the same day. 
It has also pointed out that it has many customers who genuinely invest in cryptocurrency 
and it is not considered reasonable to expect it to flag and cancel all payments made by 
customers to any cryptocurrency platform. I recognise there is a balance to strike and the 
banks point of view, but Im not making a finding that the bank is expected to flag all transactions made to cryptocurrency providers, it should be identifying those that are 
unusual and out of character. 
Ive reviewed Ms Ks account statements provided from April 2019 up until the scam 
payments and while I acknowledge Barclays position, I dont agree. From what Ive seen, in 
December 2020 Ms K received proceeds from a property sale into her account which she 
then moved into various other accounts she held. I note some of these funds were moved 
into an account Ms K had paid in 2018 and so the payments made to this account were to an 
existing payee. Further, when looking at the way Ms Ks account typically ran, outside of the 
high value payments she made in December 2020, the account wasnt otherwise used to 
make other comparable high value payments. With this in mind, Im not satisfied the 
payments Ms K made in December 2020 can be considered as usual account activity.   
Here, Ms K set up a new payee to a cryptocurrency exchange and attempted to make 
12 payments in around two and a half hours, of which seven were successful. Im satisfied 
there was a pattern emerging - where there was a sequence of payments within quick 
succession of each other. The first payment was made at 13:20 and within six minutes a 
second payment was sent. A third payment was then made ten minutes after that and a 
fourth payment around sixteen minutes after that. While I dont think the initial three 
payments Ms K made ought to have stood out to Barclays as unusual or out of character for 
her account, given the pattern emerging, Im satisfied at the point Ms K asked to make the 
fourth payment of £1,142 that Barclays shouldve identified that Ms K was potentially at risk 
of financial harm. 
Having pinpointed when I wouldve expected Barclays to have intervened, Ive gone on to 
think about whether intervention would have made a difference in this case.  
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and Action Fraud published warnings about 
cryptocurrency scams in mid-2018. By the time Ms K fell victim to this scam in January 2021, 
Im satisfied Barclays would have had a good understanding of how cryptocurrency 
investment scams work, including that the consumer often moves money to an account in 
their own name before it is moved on again to a fraudster. 
Even though the money typically moves to a cryptocurrency account in the consumer's own 
name, that doesn't mean the money should be assumed to be safe and within the 
customer's control. When Ms K fell victim to this scam, the landscape was such that how 
these scams work in practice should have been understood well enough by firms to enable 
them to better identify the risk of harm from fraud.
Had Barclays intervened to question the payment Ms K made of £1,142 at 13:52, I think it is 
more likely than not that it wouldve identified she was the victim of a scam. And had it given 
a warning it would have prevented her further loss. I say this because the base information 
Ms K wouldve likely given had all the tell-tale signs of a scam - that she was contacted 
about a previous investment involving cryptocurrency and to receive the investment returns 
she was required to set up an account with B. She was then told shed need to make 
payments to B in order to receive the investment returns  which I think ought to have been 
red flags to Barclays. 
As Im persuaded it is more likely than not that Ms K wouldve shared information which 
wouldve displayed the features a of scam, then her losses from this point are still 
foreseeable despite the payments on the face of it not leaving her control.  
Im aware Barclays say it presented Ms K with a warning after she selected the payment 
purpose investment. As Ive explained above, I think Barclays ought to have intervened and 
contacted Ms K to ask questions about the payments she was asking to make (from the fourth payment). But for the avoidance of doubt, the warning Barclays has referred to isnt 
specific to any one type of scam - it mentions safe account and HMRC scams  which 
werent relevant to the scam she fell victim to. I dont think the written warning was sufficient 
here, given the risk and, in any case, as Ive referred to above, it wasnt relevant to her 
circumstances. 
Whilst the warning Barclays has referred to advised Ms K to check the FCA register, it goes 
on to mention scammers often clone genuine companies, creating documents and websites 
that look real. Im not persuaded the warning given brings to life what investment scams look 
and feel like. It follows that I dont find the online warning to be impactful when thinking about 
the specific circumstances of this case. Barclays also feel that even had it provided an exact 
scenario of what was going to happen to Ms K as part of the scam that it feels she would 
have ignored its advice and continued with the activity. However, I dont agree. Had Barclays 
got in touch with Ms K about the payments, as I think it ought to have done here, Im 
persuaded it would have been apparent to it (given the information Ms K likely wouldve 
provided), that she might be at risk of financial harm. It then would have been able to give a 
tailored warning to Ms K. On balance, I think Ms K wouldve taken on board any 
warnings/advice Barclays provided and I think this wouldve made a difference. Ive not seen 
anything that suggests it is more likely than not that she would have proceeded with the 
payments regardless.  
It follows that Im persuaded intervention by Barclays at the point Ive identified would have 
uncovered the scam and prevented any further loss to this scam.
Should Ms K bear some responsibility for her loss? 
When answering this question, Ive thought carefully about what Barclays obligations were, 
as set out above. But another key issue is whether Ms K acted reasonably, taking into 
account all the circumstances in this particular case.
Its clear the material cause of Ms Ks loss came from being tricked by a scam. Her loss 
could also have been minimised had Barclays taken appropriate steps to intervene when her 
payments appeared unusual. But I dont think its unfair to say Ms K wasnt as careful as I 
reasonably think she ought to have been before transferring the amount of money she did. I 
will now explain why. 
Ms K was contacted out of the blue by C and while she recalls knowing of them, Ive not 
seen any information which shows she had invested with them previously. Nor have I been 
able to see a prior investment with C from the account statements Ive reviewed. Ms K has 
also said C knew limited personal information about her and from what Ive been provided 
with, C doesnt appear to have given Ms K any specific information about the investment 
which the returns related to. Taking this into account, Im not persuaded C had any 
meaningful knowledge about Ms K or the investment linked to the returns to say that it was 
reasonable for her to believe what she was being told. 
Ms K said she recalls investing £250 in the six months prior to the scam and she believed 
the contact was in relation to this earlier investment. But I dont consider it plausible that an 
investment of £250 would make a return of $12,400 within six months. It follows, that I 
consider the return Ms K was told about was too good to be true. I think the promised returns 
from the previous low value investment, ought to have raised concerns with her and been a 
flag. 
Further, Ms K didnt complete any checks or research to satisfy herself that it was a 
legitimate investment/return before making the payments. Had she carried out an online 
search about C, I think it wouldve provided at least some result which wouldve indicated that the offer was more likely than not fraudulent. This combined with the other elements of 
the scam, I think ought fairly and reasonably to have caused Ms K concern and prompted 
her to take steps to satisfy herself about C and the investment return. 
I also cannot ignore the reason Ms K was given as to why she needed to make payments to 
B in order to receive the investment returns  that this was standard procedure. While I note 
Ms K accepted this reasoning, I think this ought to have been a flag or at least prompted her 
to ask further questions. I dont find the explanation given to be convincing reasoning as to 
why she needed to make payments into B in order to receive supposed returns on a 
previous investment shed made. 
For all the reasons Ive explained, I think its fair and reasonable for Ms K to share the 
responsibility with Barclays and reduce the refund on the payments Ive pinpointed above by 
50%. 
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should now: 
Refund 50% of Ms Ks outstanding loss, from and including the fourth payment of 
£1,142.
Pay 8% simple interest on those payments from the date the payments were made 
until the date of settlement. If Barclays deducts tax from the interest element of the of 
this award, it should provide Ms K with an appropriate tax deduction certificate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part against Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman