DRN-4275738
The complaint
Ms M complains about the delays Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) 
caused in her claim made on her motor insurance policy. She wants it to repair her car, 
provide her with a courtesy car or write off her car.
What happened
Ms Ms car was damaged in an accident, and she made a claim on her policy. It took three 
weeks for LV to recover her car to its repairer. And it took six months for LV to obtain the 
parts needed for the repair. Ms M was without a car in this time, and she thought LV should 
have provided a replacement. LV agreed that it had delayed recovering her car and paid her 
£75 compensation for this. But it said it wasnt responsible for the lack of parts and Ms M 
wasnt entitled to a replacement car under her policy. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought LVs 
compensation for the initial delay was fair and reasonable. And he thought it wasnt 
responsible for the lack of parts. But he thought it should have looked for other options when 
the parts werent available, and Ms M was without transport. He thought it should pay Ms M 
compensation for loss of use from a month after the accident until her car was repaired. 
Ms M replied that she agreed. But LV replied that it had acted within the policys terms and 
conditions. It said Ms M hadnt paid for the replacement car option. LV asked for an 
Ombudsmans decision, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Ms M felt frustrated that it took so long to repair her car and she was 
left without transport during this time. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether 
the insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and 
reasonably.
LV has agreed that it should have recovered Ms Ms car to its repairer sooner than it did. 
And it offered her £75 compensation for this. I think that was fair and reasonable for the 
impact this delay had as the parts needed for repairs wouldnt have been available in any 
case. I can see that Ms M declined this offer, but LV confirmed that it remains available if 
she wants to receive this. 
It took six months for LV to repair and return Ms Ms car. Unlike many other policies Ive 
seen, Ms Ms policy doesnt automatically provide for a courtesy car whilst her car is being 
repaired. This is only provided if the consumer pays for this optional extra. And I can see that 
Ms M didnt pay for the replacement car option on her policy. The policy booklet explains on 
page 14 that:
Section 6 Guaranteed hire car (if shown on your personal details)
If this section is included on your personal details, we'll guarantee a hire car when:
 your car is with our recommended repairer service until it's fixed: or
 up to 21 days or until 4 days, after payment has been given to you, whichever is soonest (if 
your car is a total loss)
So I would usually say that Ms M wasnt entitled to a replacement car under her policys 
terms and conditions. But I dont think that would be fair and reasonable in Ms Ms particular 
circumstances. Ill now explain why I think this.
LV has an obligation to deal with claims fairly and promptly. I agree that its not responsible 
for the global shortage of parts and the delay in their provision as this is outside its control. 
But Id expect LV to be mindful of the impact the delay in locating parts was having on its 
consumer and to take steps to mitigate this. 
Ive looked at LVs claim notes. LV knew that Ms Ms car was immobile and unroadworthy 
due to the accident. And I can see that after Ms Ms car was recovered to its repairers it 
contacted her about her complaint about this delay, but not again. But Ms M said she was 
receiving updates from the repairer, and it kept putting the repair date back. Three months 
after the accident, Ms M complained to LV that her car was still with the repairer with no 
completion date, and she was without a courtesy car. 
I think it was unreasonable for LV to expect Ms M to wait indefinitely for her car to be 
repaired. I agree with our Investigator that wed normally expect repairs to be completed 
within a month and, as Ms M didnt have hire car replacement on her policy, then she 
wouldnt be entitled to a car within this time. 
But I think that after this month the delay in obtaining parts became unreasonable, and as 
there was no end date, then LV should have been looking at providing Ms M with hire. And 
after several months delay, then LV should have been looking at other alternatives to settle 
her claim, such as declaring the car to be a total loss or making temporary fixes. But it didnt 
do this, and Ms M was left reliant on public transport for six months. And so I think LV should 
put things right.  
LV has provided a previous decision issued by our service which said that LV wasnt 
responsible for loss of use where the parts delays have been outside its control. But we 
consider each complaint on its individual merits, and I can see there are significant 
differences between this case and Ms Ms circumstances. 
Our Investigator recommended that LV should pay Ms M £10 a day for loss of use of her car 
from a month after the accident until her car was repaired and returned to her. This was 149 
days and so Im satisfied that LV should pay Ms M £1,490 for her loss of use of her car due 
to its delays.
Putting things right
I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay Ms M £1,490 compensation 
for the loss of use of her car caused by its delays in her claim, and £75 compensation for her 
distress and inconvenience (as its already offered to do). 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman