DRN-3746321
The complaint
Mr K complained about the service provided by Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd 
(Vanguard). He said it was responsible for delays when he wanted to transfer his individual 
savings account (ISA) to a third party financial business, causing him unbearable stress and 
resulting in him being left in cash and out of the stockmarket for an extended period of time.
What happened
Mr K completed a transfer request which provided for his stocks to be sold and the cash 
value transferred to a third party financial business. Vanguard received the transfer request 
on 29 October 2021 and completed its part of the transfer process when it sent the cash 
value to the third party on 9 December 2021. Vanguard made Mr K aware the next day it 
had completed its part of the transfer process. 
Vanguard acknowledged delays and poor customer service. When Mr K complained it said 
it understood his frustration at the length of time it took to complete the transfer and the fact 
he had to contact Vanguard multiple times for updates and for the transfer to be expedited. 
Vanguard agreed it didnt act in a timely manner and failed to process the transfer within a 
reasonable timeframe once it had received the acceptance it needed to go ahead from the 
third party. Vanguard acknowledged that during the transfer process it had given Mr K 
some incorrect information regarding the transfer. So Vanguard upheld his complaint, 
apologised and made a payment of £150 to Mr Ks bank account as redress for the delays 
and poor service. 
Vanguard also said that it would look at compensating Mr K further if he provided 
supporting evidence to show investment loss as a result of missing out on trading on the 
market due to Vanguards delay. 
Mr K didn't feel this went far enough to resolve things and so he brought his complaint to us 
and one of our investigators looked into what happened.   
Our investigator didnt feel she had seen enough to identify any financial loss since Mr K told 
us he hadnt used the cash to repurchase investments. She felt the £150 redress paid by 
Vanguard was fair and reasonable overall to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the way Vanguard had handled the transfer.  
Mr K disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman review. So his complaint 
comes to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vanguard has upheld Mr Ks complaint and agreed that it was responsible for delays in 
dealing with Mr Ks transfer request. So I dont need to say more about how the delay 
happened or make any findings about whats already been agreed. Im going to concentrate 
in my decision on what Vanguard should fairly and reasonably do to put things right in these 
circumstances.
Vanguard has paid Mr K £150 as a goodwill payment for distress and inconvenience. It has 
also said that it will compensate him for potential investment losses arising as a result of the 
delays it was responsible for, up to the date it transferred Mr Ks cash over to Mr Ks new 
service provider. 
In order to show hes lost out financially, Vanguard has explained that Mr K needs to show 
that:
he had planned trades set up with his new service provider that he was unable to 
execute when the money from Vanguard hadnt come through in time, and 
he missed out on investment gains as a result because the shares he planned to 
buy had gone up in value by the time his cash was transferred and he was able to 
reinvest. 
That all seems reasonable to me. Vanguard has agreed that there were delays and service 
failings it was responsible for and accepted that it should reimburse any investment loss 
Mr K suffered as a result. But Mr K has told us he didnt have any plans in place to use his 
cash to repurchase investments. So I dont find he has suffered any investment loss that 
Vanguard should compensate him for.
Thinking about the £150 Vanguard paid to reflect the impact on Mr K of its admitted service 
failings, I've taken into account that Mr K told us there were times when the stress of 
worrying about what happened to his money was unbearable. At one point, he was unable 
to see where his money had gone as it didnt appear to be in his Vanguard account or show 
in his account with his new service provider where he expected the money to be. 
I sympathise and I can completely understand why that would have been so distressing at 
the time  especially as the amount in question was significant. 
Ive also kept in mind that HMRC guidance states that the ISA transfer should happen 
within 30 calendar days from a business receiving a request. In Mr Ks case, the transfer 
took around ten days longer than this.  Taking these things into account, I find that the £150 paid by Vanguard is fair and 
reasonable to reflect the impact on Mr K of the admitted shortcomings and delays in the 
service it provided during the transfer process. It broadly reflects the amount I would expect 
Vanguard to pay in these circumstances. If Vanguard hadnt already volunteered this 
payment, I cant fairly say that I have seen enough to make me think it would be fair and 
reasonable to award any more than £150. 
And whilst Mr K has also said that his time in dealing with this issue is not free I dont think 
it would be fair to ask Vanguard to make any additional payment here. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr K . But as Im satisfied Vanguard dealt with his complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to take any further action.
My final decision
As Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd has already done everything I would expect it to do to 
put things right for Mr K, I am not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman