DRN-3355910
The complaint
Mr A and Ms B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed their current account. 
What happened
Barclays have told us Mr A and Ms B opened a current account when living in the UK but 
later moved to a country within the European Economic Area (EEA). Mr A has a loan and 
used their bank account to make payments. 
Following the Brexit vote and changes to legislation, Barclays wrote to Mr A and Ms B to 
explain it had taken the decision to close their account. Barclays sent Mr A and Ms B letters 
confirming its decision and requesting they make other banking arrangements. 
In April 2021 Mr A contacted Barclays and was given information about its decision to close 
his account. Mr A raised a complaint, but Barclays closed it without offering any resolution. 
Despite further contact, Barclays closed Mr A and Ms Bs account. 
Mr A and Ms B referred their complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. 
They didnt agree that Barclays had acted unfairly by closing the account but recommended 
a payment of £75 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by the way Mr A and 
Ms Bs complaint was handled. Mr As loan account was later sold to a third party. 
Mr A and Ms B asked to appeal, so their complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr A has concerns about his Barclays loan. But in this decision, Im only able to 
deal with issues concerning Barclays decision to close the current account. I understand Mr 
As loan payments were debited from the current account and have taken this into account. 
As Barclays and the investigator have both set out, changes to legislation and regulations 
following Brexit meant Barclays took the decision to close Mr A and Ms Bs account. 
Barclays has explained that as a result of the UK leaving the EU it couldnt provide accounts 
to the majority of customers with addresses in the EEA. 
Whilst I understand Barclays decision impacted Mr A and Ms B, as a business its free to 
decide what services to offer customers. In this case, Barclays says it took a commercial 
decision to close their account following Brexit and Im satisfied thats the case. I understand 
Mr A and Ms B feel this step was unfair, but I have to consider the account terms and 
conditions. They say Barclays can close an account for any reason by giving 60 days notice. 
Barclays wrote Mr A and Ms B in November 2020 giving them notice of its intention to close 
their account. It sent a follow up letter in January 2021 providing a further warning of its 
intention to close their account. Another letter was sent in April 2021. Im satisfied Barclays 
gave notice in line with its account terms that it intended to close Mr A and Ms Bs account. 
Mr A has told us hes unhappy Barclays failed to provide guidelines about what would 
happen and that they didnt receive its letters. Ive seen copies of Barclays letters and they 
are address in line with the information Mr A and Ms B have given this service. The 
addresses used appear to be correct. I note Barclays letters contain guidance concerning 
the decision to close accounts and what would happen next. Im sorry to disappoint Mr A and 
Ms B but, on balance, Im satisfied Barclays did write to them about its decision to close their 
account and gave sufficient warning in line with the account terms. I havent found that 
Barclays has treated Mr A and Ms B unfairly by closing their account. 
Barclays agreed to pay Mr A and Ms B £75 for the way their complaint was handled in April 
2021. In my view, thats a reasonable way to resolve this complaint and fairly reflets the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr A and Ms B. As a result, Im going to proceed on 
that basis and award Mr A and Ms B £75. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr A and Ms Bs complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
pay them £75. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman