DRN-2496781
The complaint
Mr A complains that he wasnt given enough information about the risks of his over 50s life 
plan he took out with Zurich Assurance Ltd.
What happened
In 1993 Mr A completed an application form to apply for an over 50s life plan. This plan was 
put in place for a sum assured of £1,444 and a premium of £12 per month. In 2019, Zurich 
explained it had made Mr As policy paid up as he was over 90 years old, and it was no 
longer supporting contributions to this plan. It was at this point that Mr A realised he had paid 
in significantly more than the sum assured. He complained as he thought the policy would 
cover all funeral expenses and he wasnt aware of the risk that he could pay in more than 
the sum assured. 
Zurich said that this sale wasnt advised, and that Mr A had enough information to make an 
informed decision at the outset. Our investigator disagreed. He felt the complaint should be 
upheld. He said there was no clear warning in any of the point of sale documents that said 
Mr A could pay in more than the sum assured. And he felt that had there been clearer 
information, Mr A wouldnt have taken the policy out.
Zurich said the information it gave was clear enough for Mr A to have made the calculation 
himself. This wouldve made him aware that he could pay in more if he lived for more than 
ten years. And it mentioned it had received a decision from us which confirmed these 
documents were clear. So, it asked for an ombudsman to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Zurich has referenced a recent decision it has received from us about a similar 
case. But its important to note that we consider each case individually here, and so in this 
case, I need to decide if Mr A had enough information to make an informed decision about 
taking the policy out.
The application Mr A completed had the premium amount he could select. It then promoted 
the free gifts he could receive by taking out a policy. It doesnt have any warning about the 
risks of the policy, namely that he could pay in more than the sum assured if the policy was 
to be kept for some time. Zurich has said the risk is implied given there is a table which 
shows how much the sum assured may be for different people of different ages. This table 
isnt in the first couple of pages. And I dont think it wouldve been apparent to Mr A that he 
had to make this calculation to determine the risks of the policy. I also dont think its 
reasonable to assume Mr A was aware of the risks because of this.
I have noted Zurichs comments that it was made clear the premium was payable for life. 
And I can see the sum assured was on the schedule sent after Mr A had taken the policy 
out. But I dont think it was reasonable to expect Mr A to have calculated the risks without 
there being a warning in this case. This was because Mr A was 65 years old at the time he 
applied for the policy and hed be 75 when the amount he paid in premiums would surpass 
the sum assured. I think if there had been a warning, hed have thought it was likely hed end 
up paying in more than the sum assured due to his relatively young age at the time. So, 
without any prompt in the application to tell him to do that calculation, and from what Mr A 
has told us, I think its unlikely he wouldve applied for the policy had he been aware of this 
risk. 
So, whilst I understand Zurichs argument that the risk is implied, I dont think it was enough 
for Mr A to make an informed decision based on his own circumstances at the time. If hed 
had enough information, I dont think he wouldve taken out this policy.
Putting things right
Zurich Assurance Ltd needs to refund Mr A the premiums hes paid plus 8% interest from the 
date the premium was paid to the date of settlement.
If Zurich Assurance Ltd considers it is legally obliged to deduct income tax from the interest 
paid, it should issue a tax deduction certificate with the payment. Mr A may be able to 
reclaim the tax paid from HM Revenue and Customs, if applicable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. Zurich Assurance Ltd must follow the 
instructions set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman