DRN-3605932
The complaint
Ms O complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) treated her unfairly when it 
agreed a payment arrangement for a joint mortgage without her consent. 
What happened
Ms O took out a mortgage with Halifax in mid-2017, with her ex-partner. Ms O separated 
from her ex-partner in 2018. Her ex-partner continued to live at the property and Ms O says 
they agreed that he would make monthly mortgage payments.
Halifax agreed a payment arrangement with Ms Os ex-partner in mid-2021. Ms O says this 
was unfair.
Ms O says Halifax agreed not to make changes to the mortgage without her consent. She 
says she made Halifax aware of her ex-partners abusive behaviour and it shouldnt have 
agreed changes that could cause her financial detriment. Shed previously raised complaints 
when Halifax agreed payment deferrals with her ex-partner in 2020. Ms O says the payment 
arrangement took pressure off her ex-partner and prolonged the time that he remained in the 
property, at her expense.
Ms O says she was worried the payment arrangement would stop her getting a mortgage in 
future and she had to make mortgage payments to protect her credit rating. In late 2021 
Ms O bought her ex-partner out of the property and repaid the mortgage.
Ms O would like information about Halifaxs policies and procedures, as shes concerned 
that Halifax doesnt have suitable processes in place to protect customers in circumstances 
like hers.
Our investigator said Halifax could have handled the matter better and recommended it pay 
£250, which it agreed to do. 
Ms O didnt agree. She said compensation of £2,500 would better reflect the stress and 
inconvenience she experienced. Ms O said the payment arrangement prolonged 
negotiations with her ex-partner regarding the property. She said he remained in the 
property for longer as a result, while she paid the mortgage and for her own accommodation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms O contacted Halifax in mid-2021. She was upset that it had agreed a temporary payment 
arrangement for the mortgage without her consent. She said Halifax had agreed it wouldnt 
make changes to the account without her consent. Halifax said it didnt need consent from 
both account holders to offer a payment arrangement.
We provide an informal dispute resolution service. We arent regulators and we dont have 
the same powers as a regulator. While I understand the concerns expressed by Ms O, I cant 
require Halifax to provide copies of its internal policies and procedures to her. Nor can I 
require it to make changes to its processes for dealing with accounts where an account 
holder is vulnerable or there is a dispute between the account holders. What I can consider 
is whether Halifax treated Ms O fairly. 
Ms O spoke to and wrote to Halifax in 2019. She said her relationship had broken down due 
to violence. Halifax sent a letter to Ms O in June 2019. This confirmed a marital dispute 
warning had been applied to the account and for the majority of changes the authority of all 
account holders is required. The letter didnt say Halifax had to seek Ms Os prior consent to 
all changes. I also think its reasonable for Halifax to say that a temporary payment 
arrangement is a forbearance measure, rather than a change to the mortgage terms and 
conditions.
Halifax wrote to Ms O in June 2021 saying it had agreed a payment arrangement. This letter 
said to contact it if she didnt want to go ahead with the payment arrangement. Ms O was 
upset that Halifax had agreed this with her ex-partner without her prior consent.
Ms O says Halifax agreeing to the payment arrangement caused problems which took time, 
and expensive emails between solicitors, to sort out. She says it allowed her ex-partner to 
remain in the property for longer, at her expense. 
I think its likely that Ms O would have been in substantially the same position if Halifax 
hadnt agreed the payment arrangement. If Ms Os ex-partner couldnt (or didnt) make 
payments, shed have had to decide whether to make the payments herself to protect her 
credit file. Hed missed or been late with payments earlier in 2021 so this was a real 
possibility, regardless of whether Halifax agreed a payment arrangement. 
Ms O says her ex-partner used the previous payment deferrals and the payment 
arrangement offered in mid-2021 to justify not making payments while staying in the 
property. Ms O says this meant it took longer to reach the point where she bought out his 
share and he left the property. In order to protect her credit rating she had to pay the 
mortgage, and also had to pay for her own accommodation in the meantime. 
Ms O says she was in difficult, protracted and expensive negotiations with her ex-partner 
regarding the property during this period. She says it was 3.5 years from them separating to 
her ex-partner leaving the property. I dont think I can fairly and reasonably find that Halifax 
offering a payment arrangement was the only, or even the main reason, Ms O didnt reach 
agreement with her ex-partner about the property sooner. Or that it increased her legal costs 
as compared to her ex-partner simply ceasing to make payments. 
I have to be fair to both parties here. Id expect Halifax to respond fairly and offer suitable 
support when a borrower says they are in financial difficulty. I havent looked into  and 
make no findings about  its dealings with the other account holder and whether it was fair to 
offer the payment arrangement. 
I think though that Halifax could have been more sympathetic when considering how Ms O 
would be affected. Ms O had told Halifax the relationship was abusive, and about her 
concerns that her ex-partner would try to exercise financial control through the joint 
mortgage account. Shed raised two complaints in 2020, which show her level of concern 
about this. Shed raised concerns with Halifax that her ex-partner hadnt been honest in his 
application for a payment deferral. Ms O had told Halifax she needed to maintain a good 
credit rating, so she could raise finance in future. Most likely, a payment arrangement would 
be recorded on her credit file.Ive thought about what Halifax could have done differently. It could, for instance, have 
considered first contacting Ms O to see if she wanted to make the payments herself. Ms O 
wouldnt have first found out about the payment arrangement after it had been agreed and 
confirmed in writing. Shed have had more time to decide what to do and, if she chose to do 
so, make arrangements to pay the mortgage.
Ms O was in a distressing situation. But Halifax isnt responsible for the behaviour of her ex-
partner. I dont think Halifax was responsible if her ex-partner caused delays to the 
ownership and occupancy of the property being sorted out, or if (despite their agreement) he 
decided not to make mortgage payments. I think, for the additional upset and inconvenience 
caused by Halifax agreeing a payment arrangement without first discussing this with Ms O, 
compensation of £250 is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) 
to pay £250 to Ms O.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman