DRN-4253896
The complaint
Miss B complains that Wakam cancelled her home insurance policy.
Reference to Wakam includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
Ill summarise the main points about this dispute:
Miss B took out a home insurance policy underwritten by Wakam in May 2022.
In October 2022 she got in touch with Wakam about a crack in her living room wall. 
Whilst redecorating, she removed the wall covering and discovered the crack. 
Wakam arranged for a surveyor to inspect the damage. They said the damage wasnt 
related to subsidence but rather historic thermal expansion. The claim was declined.
Wakam then emailed Miss B to say it could no longer provide cover to her as her 
home wasnt in a good state of repair. It gave her the option to cancel the policy 
herself, or Wakam would cancel it after 21 days.
Miss B didnt get in touch within that timeframe as she said she didnt receive the 
email. Wakam cancelled the policy. Miss B complained about this. Amongst other 
things, she said shed repaired the crack, as the surveyor had suggested, so she 
didnt agree her home was in a poor state of repair.
Wakam said the email had been sent. It also said it didnt offer cover for properties 
with visible cracking.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said Wakam had acted 
fairly when it declined the claim. But she didnt think it was fair to cancel the policy. 
To put things right, she suggested Wakam reinstate the policy, remove any 
cancellation markers and pay £150 compensation.
Miss B agreed. Wakam didnt. In summary, it made the following points:
oTo be eligible for the policy, the property must have no visible cracking.
oWhen taking out the policy, if Miss B had said there was cracking, the policy 
wouldnt have been offered to her.
oIf the cracking appeared after the policy had been taken out, Miss B was 
required to tell Wakam about it. And in such circumstances, it has the right to 
change or cancel the policy.
oIt wouldnt be fair for Wakam to be required to provide cover for 
circumstances outside its eligibility criteria. 
oNone of this was dependent on establishing that the property was in a poor 
state of repair.
As an agreement wasnt reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There seems to be no dispute that the claim was declined fairly, so I wont comment 
on that in detail. But, for completeness, I agree it was declined fairly as the damage 
wasnt caused in a way covered by the policy.
The dispute is about whether it was fair for Wakam to cancel the policy. So thats 
what Ill focus on.
When Wakam first told Miss B it may cancel her policy, it said this was because the 
property wasnt in a good state of repair. However, when it responded to her 
complaint, it didnt rely on that point any longer. Instead it said it couldnt offer cover 
because there was visible cracking. It has continued to rely on the latter reason 
during our investigation.
Its unusual, and potentially unfair, for an insurer to rely on one reason to cancel the 
policy  but then put that reason aside and use another to explain why it did so. In 
addition, Wakam seems to have conflated two different matters when explaining why 
it cancelled the policy. So Ill explain things step by step.
Wakam provided the policy to Miss B from May 2022 on the basis of certain 
information she provided. That included the following: to the best of your knowledge, 
your property  [doesnt] have any visible cracks. Miss B agreed that was the case.
Miss B had a duty to provide reasonable information at that time. If Miss B had failed 
to fulfil that duty, Wakam may have been able to take action, including treating the 
policy as if it hadnt existed. But it hasnt argued she failed in that duty. And shes 
said the crack wasnt visible until October 2022, when it was revealed during 
redecoration. So Im satisfied she provided reasonable information at the time and 
Wakam can take no action in relation to the information she gave in May 2022.
The policy contains a term which requires Miss B to let Wakam know if any of the 
information given in May 2022 subsequently changed during the period of insurance. 
Wakam hasnt relied on this term to cancel the policy. But Miss B did let Wakam 
know shed discovered a crack, so Im satisfied she complied with the term.
Wakam initially relied on a term which said in order to remain covered, Miss B: must 
endeavour to  ensure the premises are kept in a  good state of repair. It said 
shed failed to do this because of the crack.
There are several reasons why Im not persuaded it would be fair for Wakam to use 
this term to cancel the policy. Firstly, its told us its not relying on the term any 
longer. Secondly, Miss B repaired the crack. That was the only reason Wakam put 
forward to explain why it thought the premises wasnt in a good state of repair. With 
the crack repaired, that reason doesnt stand. Third, even if the crack hadnt been 
repaired at the time Wakam cancelled the policy, this term requires Miss B to 
endeavour to keep the premises in a good state of repair. I think she met that 
requirement by reporting the crack to her insurer, finding out whether the repair of the crack was covered by the policy, and then taking steps to have it repaired at her own 
cost when she found it wasnt covered by the policy.
Wakam says it would be unfair for it to be required to provide cover for circumstances 
outside its eligibility criteria. But that criteria applies when taking out or renewing a 
policy, not during the policy term, as I set out above. There may be policy terms 
which are in keeping with the criteria, such as that mentioned here. But taking that 
term literally would mean that any crack damage, however small or insignificant, 
would entitle Wakam to cancel a policy mid-term. The consequences of this can be 
significant to a consumer, so it may not be fair and reasonable for Wakam to apply 
such a term so literally in a particular case.
So even if the three reasons above didnt apply, I would have to consider whether it 
treated Miss B fairly and reasonably to cancel the policy as a result of the 
appearance of a single crack which Wakams own surveyor thought was of no 
structural significance. Its unlikely I would find it fair for Wakam to do so.
Overall, Im not satisfied Wakam acted fairly when it cancelled Miss Bs policy. To put 
things right, it should reinstate the policy so that it ran until its end date in May 2023. 
If Miss B had any other claims to make during that time, there was a policy in place 
for her to do so. Wakam should also remove any record of the cancellation from any 
internal or external databases. That will mean Miss B is entitled to say she hasnt had 
a policy cancelled when she applies for insurance.
Im satisfied Wakam cancelling the policy has caused Miss B avoidable distress and 
inconvenience. Shes had to spend time having it put right and has been concerned 
about the impact on her of having to declare a cancelled policy. Im satisfied it would 
be reasonable for Wakam to pay £150 compensation in these circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Wakam to:
Reinstate the policy.
Remove any record of policy cancellation from any internal and external databases 
Pay £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman