DRN-2906725
The complaint
Ms H and Mr T complain that Admiral Insurance Company Limited cancelled their home 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms H and Mr T had home insurance with Admiral which they took out in May 2020. In 
November 2020 they made a claim for subsidence after noticing cracks appearing at their 
property. 
Admiral sent a contractor out to inspect the damage. It subsequently requested a copy of 
Ms H and Mr Ts pre-purchase survey. On receiving this Admiral wrote to them to say it was 
declining their claim and cancelling their policy. It said the survey showed there had been 
previous subsidence at the property and this hadnt been declared when the insurance policy 
was taken out. Admiral said if it had been, it wouldnt have offered Ms H and Mr T the policy. 
Ms H and Mr T didnt think this was fair. They said when they took out the policy they were 
only asked if there had been any subsidence within the last 25 years. And the survey didnt 
say when the movement happened, but said it wasnt progressive, so they didnt think theyd 
answered the question dishonestly. They made a complaint.
Admiral didnt uphold their complaint. It said that while the survey didnt give a date for when 
the subsidence took place, the information contained in it would be enough for Ms H and 
Mr T to know they wouldnt be answering the question correctly by answering agree. And if 
it had known about the movement it wouldnt have offered the policy, so it said it was right to 
cancel the policy. However it said it didnt consider the misrepresentation to have been 
deliberate, so it refunded Ms H and Mr Ts policy premiums. 
Ms H and Mr T didnt agree it was fair to cancel the policy. They said the survey only 
concluded the subsidence happened before 2015, so they thought it was likely it happened 
more than 25 years ago. They brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said that while the pre-
purchase survey didnt say when the subsidence occurred, she thought the information 
provided in it was enough for Ms H and Mr T to know they may not have been answering the 
question correctly. So she thought Admiral had acted fairly by cancelling the policy. 
Ms H and Mr T didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. 
Admiral thinks Ms H and Mr T failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when answering the question about previous instances of subsidence at 
their home. 
Ive considered the question that was asked and the answer given. When completing the 
online application Ms H and Mr T were asked: 
Do you agree with the following statements?
This property has not suffered from:
Flooding in the last 25 years, including the land it stands on
Subsidence heave or landslip in the last 25 years
To this question they answered agree.
The pre-purchase survey shows that there has been movement due to subsidence at the 
property and that there are cracks in the building due to this. And while it doesnt specify 
when the movement occurred, other than concluding it was before 2015, it makes no 
suggestion as to when it occurred before that date. So based on this Ms H and Mr T were 
aware that there had been subsidence, and that it occurred at some point before 2015. So I 
think they would have been reasonably aware that answering agree to the above question 
may not have been an accurate answer. 
Ms H and Mr T have said that as the house is over 100 years old, they think its most likely 
the subsidence happened much longer than 25 years ago. So they feel they answered the 
question correctly, to the best of their knowledge.
While I appreciate there is ambiguity about the date of subsidence, I have to consider the 
facts available. And from the survey, it confirms subsidence had occurred at the property 
before 2015. So based on this, in order to answer the question accurately, Ms H and Mr T 
would need to be sure that it didnt occur at any point in the 20 years preceding 2015. And I 
dont think there was enough evidence for them to be able to know that this was the case. 
Further, next to the statement on the website there was an icon to click for additional 
information about the question. So if Ms H and Mr T had any doubts about how to answer 
they could select this. When selected, this displayed the following information:
Please select 'Disagree' if your property (including garages and outbuildings) has been 
affected by or monitored for subsidence, heave or landslip or currently shows signs such as 
cracks present on walls....
This makes it clear that where there are signs of subsidence, such as cracks in the walls, 
then disagree should be selected as the answer to the question. The survey documents 
that cracks were present at the property when it was purchased. So I think its clear that the 
answer Ms H and Mr T gave wasnt correct.Ms H and Mr T have said that this information is hidden, so it wasnt noticeable and was 
easily missed. Ive looked at the page that they had to fill out and I think its clear that where 
help is required, the icon can be selected. However even without the extra information, I am 
satisfied that they didnt take reasonable care to answer the question correctly. So I agree 
there has been a misrepresentation.
I now need to consider if the misrepresentation was a qualifying one. To do this, I have to 
consider whether if Ms H and Mr T hadnt made the misrepresentation, Admiral would have 
offered the same policy cover on the same terms. 
Admiral has provided information from its underwriters which shows that it wouldnt have 
offered the policy if there had been subsidence at the property within 25 years. Further its 
underwriters have confirmed that even though a date of the subsidence is uncertain in this 
case, it wouldnt have offered cover based on the information available from the survey. So 
Im satisfied that if Ms H and Mr T had provided the correct information at the start of the 
policy, then Admiral wouldnt have offered the policy at all. So I agree there has been a 
qualifying misrepresentation. 
Under CIDRA a qualifying misrepresentation is either deliberate, reckless or careless. And 
the available remedy will depend on which one of these categories the misrepresentation 
falls into. It is for the insurer to prove that a misrepresentation is either deliberate or reckless. 
Otherwise it is considered careless.
In this case Admiral has said it considers Ms H and Mr Ts misrepresentation to be careless. 
CIDRA says where a qualifying misrepresentation has occurred, and it is considered 
careless, then the insurer can refuse all claims, avoid the policy, but should refund the policy 
premiums. Admiral has said it has refunded the policy premiums to Ms H and Mr T, so Im 
satisfied it has acted fairly and fulfilled its requirements under CIDRA. So I wont ask it to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Ms H and Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman