DRN-3174985
The complaint
Mrs U has complained about her mortgage that she holds with Nationwide Building Society. 
Her complaint falls into two broad areas, namely shes unhappy that:
Nationwide wouldnt offer her any further concessions on her mortgage, and
Nationwide wouldnt lend her a further £10,000 to consolidate her debts.
What happened
Mrs U took out this mortgage with Nationwide in 2013. She got into difficulties and went into 
arrears in 2017. Nationwide agreed to some temporary concessions whereby Mrs U only 
needed to pay the interest each month, which freed up funds to clear the arrears.
I understand the arrears were cleared in 2018 and Mrs U took a new preferential rate 
product.
In July 2019 Mrs U contacted Nationwide as she was in difficulties again and was worried 
about maintaining her mortgage payments going forward. It was agreed that an interest only 
concession would be placed on the account for three months.
Further three-month interest only concessions were granted in:
October 2019,
January 2020, and
April 2020.
In June and September 2020 Nationwide instead put in place three month mortgage 
payment break plans. These came under Nationwides Covid assistance plans and allowed 
Mrs U to make interest only payments. 
For clarity, the difference between the normal concessionary interest only agreement and 
the Covid payment break plan is that the normal concessionary agreements would show on 
a persons credit file as the mortgage being in an arrangement, whereas the payment break 
plan wouldnt show that (in line with the regulators Covid guidance).
Once the payment break plans ended Mrs U asked for a further interest only concessionary 
period, but Nationwide said it wasnt able to offer any more as it is a short-term support 
measure. It agreed to Mrs U making just the interest payment for January 2021 and said 
shed need to revert to making her full capital repayments from February, which Mrs U did.
Mrs U asked Nationwide for a further advance of £10,000 on her mortgage, saying that she 
would use those funds to repay her unsecured debts, which would free up money to pay 
towards the mortgage. Nationwide turned down her application, citing various reasons 
relating to the conduct of different credit accounts.
Unhappy with everything that had happened Mrs U complained to Nationwide and to this 
service.
One of our investigators looked at everything and didnt uphold Mrs Us complaint. As Mrs U 
didnt agree with his findings the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I purposely havent mentioned Mrs Us specific personal circumstances in this decision to 
protect her privacy, but I can confirm that I have read and understood everything that has 
been said about that. It is clear things havent been easy for her, and I hope she will accept 
my best wishes. 
I can see that Mrs U has placed a great deal of emphasis on Nationwides note from April 
2020. Shes said the note is incorrect as she wasnt on furlough at that point.
As our investigator explained, the recording of that call is of very poor quality and it is hard to 
draw much from it. Having listened to it in full it seems to me that Mrs U said she wasnt 
currently furloughed but she and her colleagues had been told they will possibly be 
furloughed, so I agree that Mrs U didnt say she was furloughed at that time. It is also clear 
that the adviser said on more than one occasion that the line was very bad, so it is possibly 
the adviser simply misheard or misunderstood what Mrs U had said due to the poor call 
quality. 
In any event this complaint doesnt turn on that call and what was recorded in the notes of it. 
Ill explain why below.
In the parts of the call that are clearer I can hear that Mrs U said she didnt want a Covid 
payment deferral as she didnt need one. She said shed rather be paying something than 
nothing at all. The adviser explained that she couldnt approve another interest only 
concessionary period due to the number Mrs U had already had  saying it was over her 
mandate. The call ended with the adviser saying that whilst she couldnt approve a further 
interest only concessionary period, she thought her manager would approve it so it was left 
that Mrs U only needed to make the interest payments for April to June 2020 unless she 
heard otherwise.
A letter was then sent to Mrs U on 21 April 2020 entitled Confirmation of your mortgage 
concession. That said
Due to your current personal circumstances weve agreed a temporary concession 
on your mortgage account. This means youll only be paying the interest amount on 
your mortgage and not making payments towards reducing your total balance, details 
are shown below.
This is a temporary concession and has been agreed based on your current 
personal circumstances. Were able to review your circumstances and this 
arrangement at any time. If your circumstances improve and youre able to pay more, 
it would be in your interest to let us know so we can re-assess your situation.
Details of this temporary concession will be passed onto Credit Reference Agencies, 
which are used by lenders to work out whether to lend you money or not.Having considered everything Im satisfied that Nationwide didnt put a Covid support plan in 
place in April 2020 in line with Mrs Us request to not have one. Im satisfied Nationwide 
instead put a further temporary interest only concession on Mrs Us account, and the letter it 
sent about that explained it was only temporary, and that information about the arrangement 
would be passed to credit reference agencies.
In July and October 2020 Nationwide put Covid mortgage payment break plans on Mrs Us 
account. The plans were set so Mrs U only needed to pay the interest due on her mortgage 
account for the months they were in force, so as far as Mrs U was concerned these worked 
the same way as the temporary interest only concessions shed had in place since July 
2019. 
When those ended Nationwide looked at things again and wasnt willing to grant any further 
interest only concessions. It saw that Mrs U had concessions in 2017/18 and then ever since 
July 2019. 
Its important to note that this is a repayment mortgage. The terms of the contract require 
Mrs U to pay not just the interest but a portion of the capital each month  so that, by the end 
of the term, the debt is paid off entirely.  By only paying the interest each month, Mrs U was 
in effect treating her mortgage like an interest only mortgage. 
There are strict rules about mortgage lending, which were tightened up in 2014  including to 
reduce interest only lending. The rules say that a lender should consider accepting interest 
only payments as a temporary concession to help a borrower through a period of financial 
difficulty. But that can only be temporary.
Nationwide had allowed Mrs U several years to try and get things back on track before it 
insisted Mrs U revert to making her full payments, rather than just paying the interest. There 
were lots of risks in paying only the interest, and Mrs Us finances showed no sign of 
improving. In all the circumstances, I dont think it was unfair of Nationwide to not allow Mrs 
U to continue paying just the interest.
It looked at extending the term of the mortgage but, based on Mrs Us income and 
expenditure information, it considered that to be unaffordable even taking it to the maximum 
term it could lend up to. Having considered everything, I think Nationwide considered all the 
options and offered Mrs U forbearance options for a period of time. Unfortunately Mrs Us 
situation wasnt improving and a further interest only period would only cause the longer 
term situation to deteriorate further. Whilst understandably a very difficult message to 
deliver, Im satisfied Nationwide went as far as it could in terms of offering assistance.
I understand why Mrs U wanted a further advance of £10,000 to repay her debts, and why 
she felt this would really improve her situation. But unfortunately, it isnt as simple as that.
Nationwide has a regulatory duty to lend responsibly, and as part of that it undertakes an 
assessment of a persons credit file. 
Nationwide cant take into account the fact Mrs U has substantial equity in the property and 
ignore its duty to lend responsibly and its lending criteria. Equity is only of use if a property is 
sold  whether that is by the customer, or by the lender following repossession. Having 
equity in the property doesnt help Mrs U meet the contractual monthly payments. By 
consolidating unsecured debts onto her mortgage her monthly mortgage payments would go 
up, and whilst her overall outgoings may go down the level of risk has gone up. Thats 
because if Mrs U were to miss a payment on an unsecured debt it may affect her credit file 
and she would incur some fees, whereas if she missed a payment on her mortgage (or underpaid her mortgage for any period outside of a concessionary agreement) she would be 
at risk of losing her home.
Nationwide assessed Mrs Us request for a further advance and turned it down due to the 
conduct of various credit commitments. Whilst Mrs U doesnt agree with Nationwides 
assessment of her credit file information, Im sorry to inform Mrs U that Nationwide is right. 
Mrs U has said all her accounts were up to date, including her mortgage and says to 
describe her credit conduct as poor is incorrect. In respect of her mortgage she said I do not 
hold a poorly performing Mortgage I paid in full for 6 Years and always agreed concessions 
and not in Arrears.
Concessions are only given when someone is struggling and cant meet their full contractual 
obligations. But by their very nature once someone has a concession like this they cant be 
classed as having paid in full. If Mrs U had made her full capital repayment contractual 
obligation each month then I would agree shed paid in full. But she didnt. She was in 
arrears in 2017/18 and also had an interest only concession then, and shed had an interest 
only concession since July 2019.
That solved her short-term issue in that she couldnt afford to pay her full contractual monthly 
payments, but it would be entirely inequitable for Nationwide to ignore that when considering 
whether to increase Mrs Us secured debt.
The moment Mrs U went onto a temporary interest only concession in July 2019 she was 
classed as being in financial difficulties and her mortgage would be poorly performing. 
That concessionary agreement was noted on her credit reference file  although the 
individual payments show as being made, Mrs U will see there is a note that says 
arrangement. That note will remain all the time Mrs U would be paying interest only, rather 
than the capital repayments she agreed to in the mortgage contract. Prior to that in 2017/18 
Mrs U had arrears on her mortgage and a temporary interest only concession.
In addition, her credit file (as it was in February 2021) showed:
Missed payments on her car finance in the last 18 months, with the most recent 
payment being missed/late.
Her Nationwide current account being in an arrangement to pay with missed payment 
markers in the last 18 months.
Mrs U in default on a Nationwide credit card account (with a default date of February 
2020) and a separate credit agreement (with a default date of August 2020). 
Mrs U said the separate credit agreement is a closed account and she has an arrangement 
on that with a third-party company, and that she was also paying a third-party company on 
the Nationwide credit card. She said she was paying an agreed amount and the accounts 
werent defaulted. 
But Im afraid I dont agree. Just because payments are being made now on a monthly basis 
doesnt mean an account wasnt defaulted. The fact Mrs U is paying third party companies 
(rather than the original lenders) for both those debts, is an indication the debts were 
defaulted and passed onto debt collection firms. A check of the names Mrs U has given us 
for who she is paying shows that both describe themselves as providing debt recovery 
services, and say they work on behalf of businesses to help them collect overdue debts  
that tells me both debts were defaulted, as indicated by Mrs Us credit reference file.In addition to Mrs U failing Nationwides credit scoring check, she also didnt pass its 
affordability check and it deemed the extra £10,000 to be unaffordable to her based on the 
information she disclosed and the parameters that are in place as part of Nationwides 
lending criteria. Whilst Mrs U felt it was affordable and said it would reduce her outgoings, a 
lenders affordability check is far more robust than a simple income and expenditure form 
being completed. Nationwide ran Mrs Us information through its affordability check and 
unfortunately it didnt pass that stage of the process.
Mrs U has raised the mention of a Covid payment holiday on the list of reasons for the 
decline of the further advance. Whilst I can understand why shes focussed on that as she 
feels the information is incorrect, Im not persuaded that alters the overall outcome here. 
Even removing the Covid payment holiday as a reason for not proceeding with the further 
advance, Nationwide gave numerous other reasons which are valid. So even if I were to 
agree that the Covid payment holiday decline reason was a mistake, it wouldnt alter the 
overall outcome of what happened as Nationwide would still have turned down Mrs Us 
request for a further advance.
Whilst Ive a great deal of sympathy for Mrs Us situation, having considered everything I 
dont think Nationwide acted inappropriately when it said it couldnt grant any further interest 
only payment concessions, and it was unwilling to lend Mrs U any further funds on her 
mortgage to repay her unsecured debts.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman