DRN-3504946
The complaint
Mr J complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc did not action his instruction to reduce his credit 
limit. He also complains they took too long to respond to his complaint.
What happened
Mr J sent Sainsburys a secure message on 30 August 2021, to ask Sainsburys to reduce 
his credit card limit in line with his account balance. He told Sainsburys that he was unlikely 
to use the £7,000 credit. 
Mr J raised a complaint with Sainsburys on 7 December 2021 as he said his request to 
Sainsburys was very clear - to reduce the credit and to reduce it by £7,000. Sainsburys 
actioned the credit limit decrease on the following day. 
Sainsburys partially upheld Mr Js complaint. They said that they replied to his original 
request on 1 September 2021, with some information he needed to read and they also 
asked him the exact amount he was looking to reduce his credit limit to, so they didnt agree 
Mr Js original message was clear as to what new credit limit he wanted. 
Sainsburys said that his complaint wasnt escalated to their team correctly and this meant 
Mr J didnt receive a response within a reasonable timeframe. They agreed this shouldnt 
have happened and apologised for any upset this caused him. Due to the way they handled 
Mr Js complaint which resulted in a delayed response to him, they offered him £50 
compensation. 
Mr J brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator explained to Mr J that our service 
can only consider complaints about regulated activities defined by the regulator, so our 
investigator couldnt investigate Mr Js complaint relating to the handling of his complaint by 
Sainsburys. Our investigator said that the reply from Sainsburys in September 2021, 
contained important information about the reduction of Mr Js credit limit and it would have 
been necessary for him to be made aware of this prior to the credit limit being decreased, so 
he said the delay was not due to an error by Sainsburys.
Mr J asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said Sainsburys absolutely 
understood what he was attempting to achieve. He said they prolonged the process 
unnecessarily as they could have explained right from the outset the details they required as 
well as any caveats, allowing the credit limit reduction to happen seamlessly and effortlessly. 
He said the £50 compensation they offered to not compensate him for the fact he 
unnecessarily had credit tied up for longer than was necessary.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained to Mr J, complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated 
activity and as such, the issues hes raised that relate directly to how Sainsburys have 
investigated his complaint, such as how long they took to respond to him dont come under 
my powers to consider. Sainsburys offered Mr J £50 compensation for not responding to his 
complaint in a reasonable timeframe only and not regarding the credit limit decrease (or for 
credit being tied up unnecessarily), so I dont have the power to say whether the 
compensation for the delay in responding to him is fair or not. If Mr J has not received this 
compensation, then he should contact Sainsburys on the details they provided in the final 
response letter. But I can look into the circumstances regarding the reduced credit limit and 
whether any compensation should be paid to Mr J for the events between him first asking for 
his credit limit to be reduced and the credit limit actually being reduced.
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr J has that he was very clear in his message to 
Sainsburys on 30 August 2021. But while Mr J feels he was very clear and Sainsburys 
should have acted upon this message, Im not persuaded that the message was clear and 
that a Sainsburys agent would be able to definitively know exactly what Mr J wanted them to 
do. And Ill explain why.
Mr J asks Sainsburys to reduce my limit in line with the account balance. But an account 
balance can change frequently and it could have changed before this was actioned. He also 
said Im unlikely to use the £7k credit. Sainsburys systems show that Mr Js credit limit was 
£9,000. So by Mr J saying he was unlikely to use the £7,000 credit this could appear to 
Sainsburys that he was mistaken about his credit limit. 
As Sainsburys have also highlighted, they need to make their customer aware that once 
they request a credit reduction, Mr J would not be able to ask for an increase for six months 
and even then they may not be able to increase the credit limit to the limit it was prior to the 
decrease. Ive considered what Mr J has said about how Sainsburys should let him know 
about this at the outset, but Mr J contacted them about reducing his credit limit, so once he 
did this, Sainsburys explained this within a couple of days. So Im satisfied it was 
proportionate for Sainsburys to clarify with Mr J how much he wanted to reduce the credit 
limit by and to make him aware that once the credit limit was reduced, he would be unable to 
increase this for at least six months.
The wording that Mr J used on his original request, while similar, was not the same as when 
Mr J responded in December. His original request said Im unlikely to use the £7k credit, 
whereas the December wording says reduce by £7k. Im persuaded that the December 
wording Mr J uses is clearer than the August wording. In the December wording Mr J 
explains that he has a £9,000 credit limit and he wanted to reduce this by £7,000, leaving a 
£2,000 credit limit. But even if Mr J would have used this wording in August, Im not 
persuaded that Sainsburys would have been able to lower the credit limit until Mr J 
confirmed he was aware the credit limit couldnt be increased for at least another six months. 
So this still would have warranted a response from Mr J.
Im not persuaded that Sainsburys tried to delay reducing the credit limit. And they 
responded to Mr Js request two days after Mr Js first message (which appears to have 
been sent on what would be classed as a non-working day  Bank Holiday Monday). As Mr J 
made the request via secured messaging, it was proportionate for Sainsburys to use this 
method to reply to him. Sainsburys set out clear questions for Mr J to answer. But he did not 
respond to the message until December. So I cant say Sainsburys can be held accountable 
for the delay in Mr J responding to them. Im satisfied that if Mr J would have responded to 
this message then Sainsburys would have reduced his credit limit in quick fashion. I say this 
as when Mr J did respond to this message on 7 December 2021, this was actioned the 
following day.
Mr J wouldve also had access to his account statements during this timeframe also. So if he 
checked his statements, he would have been aware that his credit limit would not have been reduced. But he didnt respond to Sainsburys message for over three months. So it follows I 
wont be asking Sainsburys to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman