DRN-2709531
The complaint
Mr B complains that Gain Credit LLC,  trading as Drafty, lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Drafty offered a credit facility which commenced with a limit being determined and then the 
customer was able to draw down the amounts he or she requires. The credit was unsecured 
and had no fixed duration.
Draftys records show that in September 2019 Mr B applied for £1,000 as a loan. Mr B 
declared a monthly income of £2,300 with outgoings of £800. Draftys records show it noted 
that using those declared figures, Mr Bs disposable income was £1,500. Drafty says that it 
carried out checks. It increased what it thought to be his expenditure figures and still  it 
says - the facility looked affordable. The credit facility with a limit of £1,000 was arranged for 
Mr B in September 2019.
The credit agreement set out the total cost of the credit based on some assumptions to 
illustrate the likely cost to Mr B (clause 5 of the agreement). On the assumption that Mr B 
drew down the full £1,000 on the first day and then repaid it over 12 months in equal 
instalments then the total amount payable would have been just under £1,342. This would 
have equated to repayments of just under £112 a month.
  
The arrangement did include a Billing Cycle which meant that a statement was produced 
ten days before Mr Bs salary payment date, and it gave the minimum payment required for 
that cycle. It had to be the higher of certain calculations in the agreement at clause 6 of the 
agreement which I have not set out here.
 
A Continuous Payment Authority was used to take the minimum payments on or near Mr Bs 
monthly salary date. Other ways of payment were made available. 
Mr B complained to Drafty in January 2020. Mr B was not content with the suspension of his 
account and thought that the interest was too high and it ought not to be charged to the 
account while he was trying to pay it back. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and he thought that Drafty had not done 
anything wrong when it approved the credit facility originally. And after three missed 
payments then he thought it was correct that Drafty took the action it did which was to 
suspend Mr Bs account preventing him from making any further drawdowns. And on the 
point about the interest  he felt that the contractual terms had been adhered to.
Mr B did not agree and the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the 
time the credit was offered.
Before lending money to a consumer or approving a credit limit a lender should take 
proportionate steps to understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what they are 
borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their financial situation.
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks, 
they did list several things a lender could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key 
element was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different things, including how much was being lent and when the sum being 
borrowed was due to be repaid.
Drafty has explained that it used Mr Bs declared income of £2,300 and Mr Bs declared 
expenditure of £800 leaving Mr B with a monthly disposable income of £1,500. Drafty 
explained to Mr B in its FRL to him:
Furthermore, we asked you to subdivide those expenses into specific categories, and were 
provided with the following breakdown: 
o 175.00 GBP for Mortgage / Rent 
o 75.00 GBP for Utilities 
o 125.00 GBP for Food 
o 75.00 GBP for Transport 
o 225.00 GBP for Credit Expenses 
o 125.00 GBP for Other Payments 
Using national averages for expense categories where data is available as a third party 
verification of this submission, we revised upwards the total stated expenses and this still 
resulted in a viable disposable income. 
Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion and said:  the expenditure information they 
created for me was miles away from what my outgoing were and they didn't take a payslip 
to. See how my money was made up to.2300 per month by massive overtime
Mr B mentioned that Drafty had not included £330 child support, from which I take that to 
mean he was paying £330 a month to support his children. Its a little unclear. And Mr B has 
not sent us anything to show his income and expenditure in September 2019. And its not 
likely Drafty would have known about such additional expenses as child support unless Mr B 
had told it. 
And even if Drafty had overestimated his expenditure to have been double what he had 
declared to it  then still I think Drafty would have been able to calculate that Mr B was likely 
able to have afforded the credit facility. 
I need to explain to Mr B that upon first approaching Drafty in September 2019 it would not 
be expected, and would not be proportionate, for Drafty to carry out a full and 
comprehensive financial review. Mr B was a new customer. And bearing in mind the credit 
limit granted and the monthly payments required to repay the facility within a reasonable 
period (£112), Drafty was entitled to rely on the information given to it which suggested that 
Mr B had enough disposable income to service a credit facility with a limit of £1,000.Drafty carried out its own credit search which did not alert it to anything untoward. The credit 
search information Drafty sent us shows that Mr B had eight active credit accounts with a 
total value of £3,300. But no adverse information such as defaults were recorded. 
Mr B has referred to having a County Court Judgment (CCJ) but I have not been sent 
anything to show me this was in place at the time of lending, or at all. So, I have had to 
discount it. 
Having looked at all that Mr B has given me and Draftys information and submissions then 
I think that the initial credit facility approval was carried out after checks I would consider 
proportionate. And the limit approved was likely to have appeared serviceable and able to be 
repaid within a reasonable time.
After the initial approval, Drafty did have to monitor Mr Bs account and it has explained to us 
how it did that. I have reviewed all the Drafty statements Mr B would have received. In my 
view, Drafty did monitor the account and did what it ought to have done. I have reviewed the 
email correspondence between the parties and in it Drafty has explained that his account 
was suspended after a couple of minimum repayments were missed. Mr B did not draw 
down any further capital sums after 14 December 2019.
So, I do not agree that Drafty did anything wrong. That element of Mr Bs complaint where 
he has said he was not happy about the suspension is rejected. It did the correct thing and 
by doing so prevented Mr B from getting further into debt. I see that Mr B has been repaying 
the overall debt owed and his balance is reducing. 
That part of Mr Bs complaint relating to the interest charged was covered by our adjudicator 
and is included in the contractual terms of the credit agreement when Mr B took the facility in 
September 2019. 
I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint and I realise he will be disappointed. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman