DRN-4118850
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the process (and related delays) involved in transferring her maturing 
ISA proceeds to a new product and the service she subsequently received from 
Shawbrook Bank Limited.
What happened
Mrs Cs husband has brought this complaint on her behalf, with her permission. But, for 
ease, I have referred to his submissions as having come direct from her.
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill only 
provide a summary here.
In April 2022 Mrs Cs fixed rate ISA matured and shes unhappy that:
The letters she received in the lead up to maturity didnt tell her about the most 
favourable rate products that were available  she had to find these herself on 
Shawbrooks website.
The process involved in transferring her money to the new account was too convoluted 
and the resulting delay meant she lost interest.
The bank handled poorly her related enquiries and complaint about the above matters, 
this included it avoiding answering questions and not returning calls after it promised to 
do so.
Shawbrook accepted that its service had fallen short. The bank apologised, increased the 
rate of interest being paid on Mrs Cs account (backdated to when it was opened) and paid 
£300 compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused by its failings.
Unhappy with Shawbrooks offer, Mrs C referred a complaint to this service. The investigator 
thought the bank had done enough to compensate her. But Mrs C disagreed, so the matter 
has come to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, for much the same 
reasons and so I cant fairly instruct the bank to pay anything further. Ive reached this 
conclusion having taken the following into account.
New interest rates are rarely known far in advance of publication and so the bank would 
have had to base the content of the ISA maturity letter on the rates that were available at 
the time the content was written. This is likely why the letter explains that Mrs C could 
opt to transfer her ISA maturity proceed either to an account listed in the letter or one 
available on the banks website. This enabled Mrs C to choose the most preferential rate 
of interest that was available when the ISA actually matured.
The bank appears to have received Mrs Cs instruction about what she wanted to do with 
her ISA maturity proceeds fairly close to the date of maturity. I say this having seen a 
letter from the bank to her, sent five days before the ISA matured, which advised she 
had not yet confirmed what she wanted to do. The bank says the message she sent, 
expressing her choice, wasnt picked up as quickly as it usually would have been due to 
a bank holiday. The bank has apologised for the delay and I think the total redress it has 
already paid fairly compensates Mrs C.
Mrs C chose to move her money into a one-year fixed rate ISA paying 1.4% interest. In 
December 2022, in response to this complaint, Shawbrook advised it had upgraded her 
account to one paying 2.37% interest and ensured this rate was backdated to when the 
account was original opened in April 2022. The bank has calculated that this upgrade 
means Mrs C will have earned approximately £600 extra interest on her ISA investment 
over the year it was in place. The 2.37% rate product wasnt actually available until some 
months after Mrs C opted for the 1.4% fixed rate ISA in April 2022. I think the banks 
decision to upgrade the account in this way was generous given the circumstances.
Over a year has passed since the events in question took place and Mrs Cs ISA has 
again matured. During the term, Mrs C proposed to withdraw her money from the ISA 
provided the bank would waive any penalties that would ordinarily result from early 
withdrawal. Mrs C said she offered to do so because the bank had previously proposed 
this, and because she was so unhappy with the service it had provided. But I think Mrs C 
misunderstood the bank in this respect. I think it was merely reiterating its right to end 
the relationship if it deemed that such had broken down, but Shawbrook wasnt saying 
that point had yet been reached. In the circumstances I dont think the bank ought to 
have agreed to Mrs Cs request to withdraw penalty-free from the account during the 
fixed term.
I dont think its necessary to go over all the mistakes the bank has made, but I can 
assure Mrs C that Ive considered everything shes told us about the service she 
received. This includes her concerns about her access to account statements  I 
understand such have now been provided. Also that she says she was offered £100 
compensation during a phone call that took place in December 2022, in addition to the 
£300 that was offered in September 2022. Unfortunately, the bank has been unable to 
trace a call recording or call notes from that time. But, in all the circumstances and taking 
into account everything the bank has done to put things right, Im satisfied that Mrs C has 
already been fairly compensated.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman