DRN-2713933
The complaint
P, a limited company complains that HSBC Bank Plc took too long to remove the block on its 
bank account. P said that the actions of HSBC significantly affected its business as it 
couldnt access money in the account. 
P is represented in this complaint by a director, Mr R.
What happened
In September 2020, HSBC received notice (from a bank I will refer to as S) of a disputed 
payment by one of Ps customers. This prompted HSBC to place a block on Ps account.
In mid-September 2020, HSBC asked P for further evidence concerning the disputed credit 
to its account. In response to the request for further information, Mr R contacted HSBC with 
further evidence.
When S got back in touch with HSBC at the end of October 2020 it said it needed more time 
to confirm whether the funds could remain in Ps bank account. HSBC finally removed the 
block on 11 November 2020.
The investigator didnt consider that Ps complaint should be upheld. She appreciated that 
the situation was stressful as P couldnt access money in its account for an extended period. 
However, the investigator saw that HSBC was waiting on S to conclude its investigation. And 
that the length of time wasnt excessive enough to mean that HSBC shouldve been chasing 
S for a response.
The investigator thought that HSBCs payment of £100 in recognition of some customer 
service failures was fair.
Mr R told the investigator that he didnt accept her recommendation. He thought that two 
months for P to be without access to its account was excessive. Particularly as HSBC hadnt 
given any timescales for when it would lift the block.
As P disagrees with the investigators recommendation, the complaint has come to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean Ive not considered 
everything the parties have given to me.
Im satisfied that it was reasonable for HSBC to place the block on Ps account after Ss 
customer raised a dispute. But I can fully appreciate Mr Rs sense of frustration with the 
length of time it took for HSBC to lift the block on Ps account. Particularly as Mr R promptly 
gave HSBC evidence to show that the customer who lodged the dispute with S, had 
retracted it almost immediately.
Ive thought about whether HSBC couldve moved more quickly and taken a more proactive 
approach to sorting out the problem  possibly by pressing S to decide the dispute more 
quickly. But Im also mindful of the fact that HSBC was reliant on S to give it an answer 
about what to do with the disputed credit. So, the delay was probably down to S rather than 
HSBC. 
Even if I thought that HSBC shouldve done more to sort things out sooner, I still dont 
consider that I would uphold Ps complaint. I say this as I dont have enough evidence to 
suggest that P lost out financially as a result of the delay in accessing its money. I appreciate 
that this may well have been because Mr R was able to use his own money to keep P going. 
But its the financial impact on P and not Mr R that I need to consider. 
I understand that Mr R, on behalf of P was told by HSBC that it would receive daily updates 
when this wasnt the case. Im satisfied that HSBCs payment of £100 recognises any 
failures there mightve been in the level of customer service that P received.
Im sorry that my decision is likely to disappoint P, but I dont require HSBC to take further 
action or pay any additional compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman