DRN-3323768
The complaint
A, a limited company, complains Santander UK Plc unfairly blocked its business account, 
which caused it financial harm. It wants compensation.
What happened
Ms N is the director of A and brings this complaint on its behalf. Our investigator covered the 
facts which led to the bringing of the complaint in some detail, so I find it unnecessary to 
repeat everything they said here. But in summary:
A successfully applied for a bounce back loan in May 2020.
Santander blocked As account in October 2020. They subsequently received a 
freezing order from a court which meant they couldnt release any funds to A. The 
order was lifted in May 2021, and shortly afterwards Santander lifted the restriction 
on As account which pertained to the order.
Santander continued to block As account. They reviewed the account and the 
information which had been provided about A on the BBL application. They say they 
sent A letters both to its business and email address requesting information, but they 
didnt receive a response. Ms N disputes receiving any such communication.
Santander decided to close As account and released the funds it held in December 
2021.
Our investigator decided not to uphold As complaint. They found:
Santander had to comply with the order of the court, so it was fair for them to not 
release the funds during the time it was in effect.
Santander have important legal and regulatory obligations they need to consider 
when providing services to customers. They are generally allowed to review accounts 
and place restrictions on what customers can do while they carry out a review.
Santander continued to block As account because they wanted further information in 
relation to the BBL application and the activity on As account. It appears they sent A 
correspondence asking for further information. Ms N denies having received any 
such correspondence, but it was likely sent.
Santander didnt receive a response from A, and they decided to close the account. 
This was in line with the terms and conditions of the account. They then took a 
commercial decision to release the remaining funds to A. This was reasonable, and 
up until this time they hadnt caused an unreasonable delay.
Ms N asked for compensation for As business losses, but she had also asked for 
compensation in relation to personal financial losses and the distress she was 
caused. But our service cannot consider her personal losses because she is not the 
eligible complainant for this complaint under the dispute resolution rules (DISP). A is 
the eligible complainant, and we can only consider losses experienced by it.
Ms N rejected our investigators findings. She insists she never received communication 
from Santander which asked her for information about A. She said there was an unfair delay 
and both she and A suffered greatly. She wants £10,000 in compensation. She asked for a 
final decision from an ombudsman, so her complaint has been given to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided not to uphold As complaint. Ill explain why.
Under the dispute resolution rules, which govern much of our services jurisdiction, we can 
only consider losses experienced by the person eligible to bring a complaint to us. Here that 
person is A. A is a limited company and a separate legal person to Ms N. So, while Ms N 
may have suffered personal financial loss and distress because she couldnt access the 
funds A held, these are not losses I can consider as suffered by A.
Santander have important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing 
accounts to customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply to when an 
account is opened. They can broadly be summarized as a responsibility to protect persons 
from financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime.
Santander were obliged to follow the order of the court, so I find they did nothing wrong by 
blocking As account while the order was in effect. But as indicated above, Santander didnt 
only have to consider the court order. So, after the order was lifted it didnt necessarily follow 
that they had to allow Ms N access to As account. 
Santander will monitor accounts for activity which appears unusual or out of place. And its 
common industry practice for firms to restrict access to an account to conduct a review on a 
customer and/or the activity on an account. Santander were also entitled to ask for evidence 
to verify information they were told previously, including the information A provided in its BBL 
application. Based on Santanders reasons for reviewing As account I can understand why 
they wanted to get further information.
Santander say they sent A communication on several occasions asking for information about 
the activity on As account and to verify the information they held about A. They say they 
sent a letter to A asking for information, which was returned as undelivered. They say they 
then sent the same letter by email to A in May 2021 and didnt receive a response. And they 
say they sent another letter in September 2021, but again they didnt receive a response.
Ms N strongly denies receiving communication from Santander and says she had been in 
frequent contact with them. But I have seen copies of both letters and I find its very likely 
they were sent. So, on balance, I find Santander were entitled to block As account while 
they waited for the information to be provided. I dont find that by awaiting this information 
they were causing an unnecessary delay. I find their position was reasonable.Santander didnt receive the information they wanted, and they decided to close As account. 
I have considered the terms of As account, and I find they were able to take this action in 
these circumstances. They also decided to release the remaining funds they held for A, 
which they paid to A in December 2021. Again, I find this action was reasonable.
I was very sorry to hear about how Ms N was affected by not being able to access the funds 
in As account earlier. And A may have indeed been impacted in the way she says it was. 
But I am not awarding A any compensation because I dont find Santander did anything 
substantively wrong.  
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold As complaint for the reasons I have given above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman