DRN-3861116
The complaint
Mr R complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited, has rejected the claim he made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel 
system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr R is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In February 2019, Mr R purchased a solar panel and battery system (the system) to be 
installed at his home. Mr R financed the purchase through a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Omni that was repayable over ten years.
In June 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr Rs behalf under section 75 of the Act to Omni. 
The CMC said that the supplier had represented the system as self-funding, this wasnt true, 
and this misrepresentation induced Mr R to enter into the contract.
The CMC said Mr R was told that the financial benefits from the system in terms of Feed-In 
Tariff payments and electricity savings would cover the monthly loan repayments. 
Omni didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr R or that there were any other 
reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
The CMC then referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Omni looked at 
the complaint and said it felt it had handled the claim in a fair and reasonable way. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened and initially upheld the complaint, 
but changed their mind when Omni disagreed and made some further comments. The CMC 
didnt agree with this since it felt that Omnis comments hadnt changed anything. So, Ive 
been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit.
As Mr R paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Omni agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr R could claim against Omni, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr R and 
the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by S as an agent of Omni. 
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Omni. These 
include the credit agreement, quote/contract, and performance estimate. 
The quote/contract sets out key information about the system, the basic cost, the monthly 
loan repayment, and total amount payable under the credit agreement. 
The performance estimate showed the estimated Feed-In Tariff and electricity savings that 
Mr R could expect to receive from the system. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Im satisfied that these documents formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore 
relevant, alongside Mr Rs recollection of the sale, when considering if there have been any 
untrue statements of fact. 
Sales documents
The quote/contract set out the cash price of the system was £8,910.00; the monthly loan 
repayments were £115.48 and the total amount payable under the credit agreement was 
£13,821.90. The credit agreement also showed this information. Mr R signed both 
documents. So, Im satisfied that Mr R wouldve understood what he was paying for the 
system in terms of the monthly repayment and total amount payable. 
The performance estimate, which was provided to us by Mr R, set out the estimated annual 
benefits of the system as follows:I think this makes it clear that the total annual benefit was expected to be £707.44. Im 
satisfied that these amounts wouldve been discussed with Mr R since they were hand-
written during the meeting when he agreed to the purchase. 
So, I think Mr R wouldve been aware that the system was going to cost him £115.48 per 
month for ten years, and that he would pay £13,821.90 in total. That equates to £1,382.19 
per year. 
And I think Mr R wouldve been aware that the benefits of the system would be £707.44 per 
year. Since this is much less than the annual loan repayments, I do not think it is likely that 
Mr R was told that the system was represented to him as being self-funding on a monthly or 
annual basis. 
Self-funding
Mr R may have been told the system would be self-funding over some period of time  such 
as its expected 25-year lifespan. A simple calculation would suggest that the system may be 
self-funding over 20 years if the benefit was in line with the estimate and remained about the 
same each year.
However, the FIT payments are linked to inflation, and electricity costs could reasonably be 
assumed to increase over time. So, Mr R couldve been told that the system was self-funding 
over its lifetime (or over a shorter time depending what assumptions were made) without it 
being a misrepresentation. 
But I think it is unlikely that Mr R was told the system would be immediately self-funding or 
that benefits would cover the monthly loan repayments. 
Performance
Ive considered whether the performance of the system is in line with estimate in the 
contract. The quote/contract and the MCS certificate set out that the system is expected to 
produce 3,838 kWh per year. I have looked at Mr Rs FIT statements and can see that his 
system is performing as expected  having generated more electricity than this in the first 
year. 
Mr Rs electricity bills show that his usage has also reduced considerably since the system 
was installed. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mr R 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman