DRN-2873430
The complaint
Mr P doesnt think Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has paid him fair compensation following a 
complaint about the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Lloyds sold Mr P a PPI policy with a credit card in December 1988.
Recently, Mr P  who is represented by a claims management company  contacted Lloyds 
to say the policy was mis-sold.
On 29 May 2020, Lloyds wrote to Mr P to say it agreed, and offered to pay him £9,555.24 
(after tax). It said this would put Mr P in the position hed be in now if he hadnt had PPI.
Mr P doesnt think Lloyds has calculated his compensation fairly.
I issued a provisional decision on 26 April 2021, which explained why I thought Lloyds had 
paid Mr P fair compensation. It included the following provisional findings:
As Lloyds accepts that the PPI policy was mis-sold, I dont need to decide whether it was.
Instead, I must decide whether Lloyds has paid Mr P fair compensation.
Mr P has had PPI since December 1988, which is when he took out his credit card.
Unfortunately, but understandably, Lloyds only has statement data from January 2000. Its 
therefore assumed his credit card balance increased steadily from zero in December 1988 to 
his known balance in January 2000. Lloyds knows the historic cost of PPI per £100, and its 
calculated an average monthly interest rate and an average repayment rate using the 
statement data it has for Mr P. Its used this information to work out how much it would have 
charged Mr P for PPI and in interest each month if his balance had increased steadily. This 
is often called assumed statement data. And in the absence of more accurate information, I 
think the assumptions Lloyds has made here are fair.
Lloyds has used this assumed statement data, together with the known statement data from 
January 2000, to calculate Mr Ps compensation by reconstructing his credit card account.
Its provided a month-by-month breakdown showing the assumed and known statement data 
on the left and the reconstructed account on the right.
To reconstruct the account, Lloyds has refunded each PPI premium in the month it was 
added. Its then recalculated the interest it charged Mr P that month to reflect the lower 
reconstructed balance. But to do this, Lloyds has had to make some assumptions about 
how much Mr P would have paid each month if he hadnt had PPI.
Mostly, Lloyds has assumed Mr P would have made the same payments he made (or that 
its assumed he made before January 2000). For example, in October 2001, Mr P paid £45 
and Lloyds has assumed he would have paid £45 if he hadnt had PPI. However, when Mr P 
made the minimum payment or repaid his balance in full, Lloyds has assumed he would 
have made the same type of payment when its reconstructed his account. And when he 
paid more than his reconstructed balance, Lloyds has assumed he would have only paid 
what he owed.
Mr P thinks the way Lloyds has reconstructed his account when it has known statement data 
is unfair. Specifically, he wants Lloyds to assume he would have always paid the same 
amount.
Ive looked closely at the account reconstruction Lloyds has provided.
Between August 2007 and May 2010, Mr P made the minimum payment. This is the smallest 
amount he could pay each month and its based on the amount he owed. As hed have owed 
less if he hadnt had PPI, the minimum payment would have been smaller. In those 32 
months when Mr P chose to make the minimum payment, I think its fair for Lloyds to 
assume hed have made the smaller minimum payment (based on the reconstructed 
balance) when it reconstructs his account. Lloyds has then refunded the difference between 
the amount Mr P paid and the amount its assumed he would have paid. And its added 
simple interest at 8% per year to compensate him for being kept out of money he would 
have otherwise had. This is what Id usually tell a business to do when a consumers out of 
pocket because of something it did wrong. And I think its fair in this case.
Mr Ps representative says a rational consumer wouldnt have added to his credit card debt  
on which he had to pay interest  if he had cash to hand. But between August 2007 and 
May 2010, Mr P didnt use his credit card to buy anything.
Alternatively, Mr Ps representative says a rational consumer uses whatever money he has 
available to reduce his credit card debt. I accept thats what a prudent consumer does  but 
Mr P chose to pay as little as possible. And from May 2010 he made no payments at all. In 
this instance, I think the type of payment he made is more indicative of what Mr P would 
have done if he hadnt had PPI.
There are 14 other months when Lloyds has assumed Mr P would have paid less than he 
did.
Between January 2000 and March 2001, Mr Ps reconstructed balance is negative. A 
negative balance (which is also known as a credit balance) is when the card issuer owes the 
consumer money. It can happen when a consumer pays more than he owes. It happened 
here because Lloyds chose not to reconstruct Mr Ps payments during the assumed 
statement data period. The reasons why arent important. Mr P doesnt want Lloyds to 
reconstruct his payments and he hasnt lost out because it hasnt done so during this period.
Mr Ps representative says its inconsistent for Lloyds to reconstruct Mr Ps payments when it 
knows what he paid when it doesnt otherwise. It may be inconsistent but I dont think its 
unfair. If its fair for a business to reconstruct a consumers payments, theres nothing 
inherently unfair about it only doing so sometimes.
And I think its fair for Lloyds to assume Mr P would not have made a payment in those 
months when his reconstructed balance is negative.
First, its very rare for consumers to pay more than they owe  and Mr P never paid his 
account into credit. Mr Ps representative doesnt say why he would have done so here. In 
fact, during this period, Mr P missed six payments  which makes me think its even less 
likely he would have purposefully paid more than he owed.Second, Ive considered Mr Ps representatives arguments about what a rational or prudent 
consumer would have done. When the reconstructed balance is in credit, theres no debt to 
reduce or repay  it would therefore be irrational to make a payment. Similarly, any spend 
during this period doesnt increase Mr Ps credit card debt, it simply reduces his credit 
balance.
Mr Ps representative has highlighted what Lloyds has done in March 2001  which I 
assumed was its way of making a slightly different point. 
In March 2001, Mr P paid £1,897 to clear his balance. As the reconstructed balance is 
negative, Lloyds has assumed Mr P wouldnt have paid anything  and refunded the £1,897 
with simple interest at 8% per year. The following month, Mr P spent £736.43 on his credit 
card account  on which he had to pay interest in real life and when the account is 
reconstructed.
Mr P says that if hed had money available, hed have used this instead of his credit card to 
make the purchases. Here, hes not saying he would have made the same payment in 
March 2001: hes essentially saying that if hed had an extra £1,897 cash in hand, he 
wouldnt have used his credit card to buy whatever he bought for £736.43 in April 2001. 
As Ive explained, Lloyds has paid Mr P simple interest at 8% per year to compensate him 
for not having access to this money. Properly understood, Mr P and/or his representatives 
point is surely that Mr P had to pay card rate interest on subsequent purchases because he 
didnt have access to this money and, as such, simple interest at 8% per year isnt fair. 
Indeed, Mr Ps complaint form says: [I] request the return of the overpayments at a 
compound interest rate instead.
Surprisingly, Mr Ps representative says otherwise:
the complaint is not that [Mr P] seeks compound interest instead of simple interest 
on assumed overpayments in any particular month. It is entirely misconceived for [the 
adjudicator] to consider this a relevant factor
Its not clear then, what point Mr Ps representative is making. But I have, for completeness, 
considered the point as Ive understood it.
I dont know what Mr P would have done with any extra money he had. He may have used it 
to buy the things he bought with his credit card. He may have bought something else 
instead. He may have repaid other debts  or saved or invested the money in some way. I 
simply dont know.
Simple interest is paid to compensate consumers for being kept out of money they would 
have had if they hadnt been mis-sold PPI. The rate used reflects the fact that, for 
consumers, there are costs and losses involved. A speculative, open-ended inquiry into the 
consumers financial position  looking at what he actually did or otherwise would have done 
with the money or, in this case, whether there was an additional, indirect cost of borrowing  
may occasionally be necessary but it will usually be unrealistic and unlikely to result in 
definitive answers.
As such, I think its fair for Lloyds to pay simple interest at 8% per year on Mr Ps 
overpayments.
Finally, there are five months when Mr P paid more than his reconstructed balance when it 
wasnt negative. For example, in December 2004, Mr P paid £5,000 to almost clear his balance of £5,374.07. As his reconstructed balance was £4,067.52, Lloyds has assumed 
Mr P would have paid this instead  and refunded the difference with simple interest at 8% 
per year. 
I think this is fair: I dont think Mr P would have paid more than he owed. And for the reasons 
Ive explained above, I think its fair for Lloyds to pay simple interest at 8% per year on any 
overpayments.
Mr Ps representative has referred me to DISP App 3.7.2 of the FCA Handbook and 
Example 6 of the FCAs Policy Statement 10/12. The FCA writes the rules for financial 
businesses. DISP App 3 tells businesses how to assess PPI complaints and compensate 
consumers if the policies were mis-sold. Policy Statement 10/12 sets out the FCAs rationale 
for these rules and includes examples that show businesses how they can calculate PPI 
compensation. And Example 6 shows businesses one way of reconstructing a consumers 
credit card account. Its a simplified example and doesnt include the sort of payment 
assumptions that Lloyds has used.
However, Example 6 is just that: an example. It shows businesses how they can 
reconstruct an account, not how they must. Mr Ps representative has no doubt also seen 
the FCAs Policy Statement 17/3, which sets out new rules and guidance on the handling of 
PPI complaints in light of a Supreme Court judgment. On page 94 it says:
we note that many firms have well-established approaches to making behavioural 
assumptions (for example about consumers who make either maximum or minimum 
balance repayments) that feed into the account reconstruction. We would anticipate 
that these would generally also be reasonably applicable to redress and account 
reconstruction at Step 2
And Example 4 and 5  which also show businesses how they can reconstruct a 
consumers credit card account  include the sort of payment assumptions Lloyds has used. 
So Im not persuaded that the way Lloyds has reconstructed Mr Ps account is inconsistent 
with the FCAs rules, guidance or standards  on the contrary, I think its wholly consistent.
In any event, we look at each case on its own merits. Ive carefully considered the way 
Lloyds has reconstructed Mr Ps account, Mr Ps testimony and his representatives 
submissions. All things considered, I think Lloyds has paid Mr P fair compensation.
Mr Ps representative has confirmed that its received my provisional decision and says it 
has nothing to add.
Lloyds hasnt replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCA Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
As Mr Ps representative has nothing to add and Lloyds hasnt replied to my provisional 
decision, I remain of the opinion that Lloyds has paid Mr P fair compensation. My reasons 
remain the same.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I think Lloyds Bank PLC has paid Mr P fair compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman