DRN-1194040
 
The complaint
Mrs D complains about charges applied to her Vanquis Bank Limited credit card account. 
She said she was overcharged for late payments and overlimit fees on the card. She wanted 
Vanquis to refund these charges.
What happened
Mrs D opened a credit card account with Vanquis in 2013. More recently, she began having 
difficulties with the card. The last payment was made in July 2017. Following this, the 
account was defaulted and passed to collection agents. Mrs D told us she was experiencing 
very difficult personal circumstances around this time. 
Mrs D has now entered into a debt relief order. But she wanted Vanquis to refund the 
charges for late payments and going over her credit limit which Vanquis applied before the 
card account was closed. 
Vanquis said it had applied charges in line with the account terms and conditions, and it 
thought the amount of those charges was fair. It said it wouldnt refund these charges. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said she couldnt tell Vanquis to refund 
amounts that it had charged in line with the terms of the account, and she thought that 
Vanquis had responded appropriately to the difficulties Mrs D was having with the card.
Mrs D didnt agree. She said her mobile number had changed. She wanted someone else to 
look at the case, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vanquis has sent us the terms and conditions for Mrs Ds account, and a list of the charges it 
applied. It looks to me as if Vanquis applied charges in line with the terms of the account. I 
dont think that Vanquis made a mistake when it applied these charges.
Vanquis charged £12 for a late payment and £12 for going over the cards credit limit. Its 
explained to Mrs D that it has considered the costs to it of these problems, and it says thats 
more than the £12 she was charged each time. I dont think that the amount that was 
charged was too high or unfair.
Mrs D told us about extremely difficult personal circumstances that shes experienced. Im 
very sorry to hear that. Im not clear that Vanquis was aware of this, but, like our investigator, 
I would still expect Vanquis to respond to the difficulties Mrs D was having with her card. And 
I can see that Vanquis was trying to get in touch with her when she was having problems. 
Most of these attempts dont appear to have been successful. Mrs D said that her mobile number changed. It seems as if she thinks that this might be why 
Vanquis didnt manage to get in touch with her. I can see the mobile number Vanquis was 
using changed at one point, but I dont know if this is the change Mrs D refers to. But I can 
see that Vanquis also attempted to call Mrs D on a landline number, which seems to be the 
same as the number she gave our service, so I think that is likely to be up to date. And 
Vanquis wrote to Mrs D a number of times about the problems on her card. So I dont think 
that the mobile phone number Vanquis was using affects the outcome of this complaint. 
I know Mrs D will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman