DRN-2700748
The complaint
Mrs and Mr G complain about the removal of the Lifestyling feature from their daughters 
Child Trust Fund (CTF) by Family Equity Plan Limited trading as OneFamily, referred to as 
OneFamily or the business. 
They say they werent notified of this change and their consent wasnt requested. They also 
say that that the CTF has lost money as a result of this change.  
What happened
I understand the Lifestyling feature was there to reduce the amount of assets held in stocks 
and shares and move this into cash-based funds, in the years leading up the CTF holders 
18th birthday. The feature was designed to protect the investment from reducing in value 
without having time to recover before maturity. 
Mr and Mrs G said that the CTF shouldve completely switched to cash by their daughters 
17th birthday but it didnt because of OneFamilys decision to remove this feature.  
Mrs and Mr G complained to OneFamily that they werent notified or consulted, and their 
consent wasnt sought regarding this change. Theyre also unhappy that the value of their 
CTF fell by around £1,000, because of the change. Theyd like the business to reimburse 
this loss. 
OneFamily didnt uphold the complaint. In short, it said that the government removed the 
requirement have this feature in 2017, to allow the CTF to instead roll over, beyond the 
age of 18, into a tax protected product to encourage long-term saving habits. OneFamily 
said that it agreed with the government initiative and so decided to follow it. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
OneFamily didnt require the consent of Mrs and Mr G to make changes to the 
Lifestye feature. 
Despite what they say, OneFamily took appropriate steps to notify them of changes. 
A template of the letter sent to customers has been provided, as well as letters from 
January 2018, August 2018 and an email from July 2019, which shows that this 
change was communicated to them. 
OneFamily also provided inserts with statements that made the removal of the 
Lifestyling feature clear.
In the process of implementing change. OneFamily has behaved in the way we 
would expect it to. 
Mrs and Mr G disagreed with the investigators view. In summary, Mr G said:
Templates arent sufficient evidence that something was sent. 
Due to OneFamily not getting back to them as it said it would after the FRL, theyd 
like an ombudsmans decision. Otherwise they have no further points to make.  
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been referred to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs and Mr G say, Im unable to 
safely say that OneFamily did anything wrong by removing the Lifestyling feature, in line 
with the government initiative.  
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise their 
strength of feeling about this matter. Theyve provided detailed submissions to support the 
complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope they wont take the fact 
my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised, its not what Im required 
to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt 
mean Im not considering the pertinent points. 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mrs and Mr G and OneFamily and reach 
what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case, 
rather than take any sides. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
I agree with the investigator that its not for us to tell OneFamily how to run its business. In 
other words, a business is entitled, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial 
judgement to run its business in the way that it sees fit.  
I appreciate Mrs and Mr G say that the Lifestyling feature was the main reason why they 
invested in the CTF with OneFamily. But Im also mindful that the government removed the 
requirement to provide the Lifestyling feature, so OneFamily was entitled to decide to 
remove it. In the circumstances, Im unable to say that its done anything wrong by doing so. 
Despite what Mrs and Mr G say, I think its more likely (than not) they were sent notification 
about the change along with other customers and stakeholders. Its possible that some 
correspondence mightve got lost in the post, but if thats what happened, I cant hold 
OneFamily responsible for the actions of a third-party postal service. In any event, I cant 
safely say that they wouldnt have received any information about this change at all. 
I note OneFamily has provided copies of examples of letters and emails sent as well as 
inserts sent with the statements. So, I think its more likely than not that Mrs and Mr G were 
provided with the relevant information. In the circumstances, I dont need to see a copy of 
the actual correspondence to reach this conclusion. 
I appreciate Mrs and Mr G say that their consent wasnt requested before making this 
change, but I dont think OneFamily was required to seek their permission or consult them before deciding what to do. I agree with OneFamily that it was only obliged to notify them of 
the proposed change, which Im satisfied it has done, in good time, along with providing the 
option to move to another provider if they didnt like what was happening. 
If Mrs and Mr G didnt like the removal of the Lifestyling feature, they had the opportunity to 
move to another provider, free of charge. But by doing nothing, they indirectly agreed to 
carry on with OneFamily  without the feature  despite being given the option to move and 
at least a years notice.   
I appreciate Mrs and Mr G are unhappy about the loss of value of their CTF, but in the 
circumstances I cant blame OneFamily for this. The business made a decision to no longer 
provide the Lifesyle feature, which it was entitled to in line with government initiative, so in 
the circumstances I cant blame the business for any losses that might have occurred after 
this. In other words, I cant say that any losses have occurred as a result of any wrongdoing 
by the business. 
That notwithstanding, its likely that the Covid-19 global pandemic is likely to have had an 
impact on the financial markets, and thats not something that OneFamily has control over or 
couldve predicted happening when it (legitimately) removed the Lifestyling feature. In the 
circumstances, I cant safely say that they wouldnt have suffered any loss even if theyd 
moved to cash-based funds. 
I appreciate Mrs and Mr G will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what they want to hear. But on the face 
of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give them 
what they want.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman