DRN-3693305
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money he lost after he fell victim to 
an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here, 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
Mr T saw a van for sale, on a well-known online marketplace, that he was interested in 
buying. Mr T has said the van was around £1,000 cheaper than others he had seen 
advertised. Hes told us that he contacted the seller, who told him this was because he was 
looking for a quick and guaranteed sale, and he needed the money to purchase another 
vehicle hed seen. Mr T believed this was a plausible explanation.
The seller told Mr T that there were a number of people interested in buying the van. The 
van was too far away for Mr T to go and look at it. But believing everything to be genuine, 
and wanting to secure the vehicle, Mr T agreed to buy the van for £4,000 and to send the 
money straight away. Mr T offered to pay by PayPal, but the seller told Mr T he would have 
to pay VAT if he paid that way, so he agreed to pay by bank transfer. Mr T has said hed 
paid for items in this way in the past, without any issues, so hes said he didnt have any 
reason to think this was unusual or concerning.
On 8 September 2021, believing everything to be genuine, Mr T went ahead and made a 
payment for £4,000 through his mobile banking app. But, unknown to him at the time, he had 
been dealing with a fraudster and had sent his payment to an account controlled by the 
fraudster. Mr T realised he had been scammed when his son went to collect the van from the 
address that had been provided, only to find an empty and derelict property. He then found 
he was unable to make any further contact with the person he had been speaking to. 
Mr T raised the matter with HSBC. HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code which requires firms to reimburse customers 
who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. HSBC says one or more of those exceptions applies in this case.
HSBC issued its final response to Mr T on 23 December 2021, not upholding his complaint. 
In summary it said it had provided an effective warning to Mr T at the time the payment was 
made. It added that Mr T didnt see the vehicle in person, nor seek information about the van 
or its seller. Overall it didnt consider it was liable for the loss Mr T had suffered. HSBC tried 
to recover the money lost from the beneficiary bank (the bank to which the money was sent) 
but was unable to recover any money.
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Mr T, through his representatives, then brought his 
complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into things and thought the 
complaint should be upheld in part. In summary, this was because he wasnt satisfied HSBC 
had established that Mr T had ignored an effective warning. But, the investigator felt Mr T 
shouldve done more checks to make sure the payment he was making was for a legitimate 
van, so he should share the responsibility with HSBC. In view of this, our investigator 
recommended that HSBC should refund Mr T 50% of the money he lost, along with interest.
Mr T agreed with our investigators view, but HSBC disagreed. In summary it maintained that 
it had provided Mr T with an effective warning and that the price of the van was too good to 
be true.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
As Ive mentioned above, the CRM Code provides additional protection for the victims of 
APP scams. Im satisfied that the payment Mr T made falls within the scope of the CRM 
Code. But despite offering additional protections, the CRM Code includes provisions 
allowing a firm not to reimburse APP scam losses fully where the firm can establish that the 
customer failed to take sufficient care when making the payment (often referred to as the 
exceptions to reimbursement).
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
- The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
- The customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate steps in 
response to that warning.
*There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code that do not apply to this case. 
When assessing whether it can establish these things, a Firm must consider whether they 
would have had a material effect on preventing the APP scam.
So, in deciding the fair outcome for this complaint, I must first determine whether HSBC has 
established these exceptions to reimbursement can be fairly applied.
I have carefully considered HSBCs representations about the warning it gave and whether 
Mr T had a reasonable basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. But they do not 
persuade me to reach a different view to our investigator. Ill explain why;
Effective Warnings
I accept that Mr T was shown a warning before he made the payment and that the warning 
displayed was generated after Mr T had selected the purpose of payment to be Buying 
Goods and Services.The CRM Code sets out minimum criteria that a warning must meet to be an effective 
warning. In very broad terms, it requires that a warning will be capable of countering the 
typical features of the generic scam type identified during the payment journey. In this case 
Im satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception were not met. Ill 
explain why:
- The warning starts off by advising the customer to use a debit or credit card as it may 
offer more protection. But it isnt uncommon to use bank transfer as a method of 
payment for larger purchases.
- It then highlights email / invoice intercept scams and to look out for irregularities. But 
this wasnt relevant to the type of scam Mr T was falling victim to, as he was not 
communicating with the fraudster by way of email.
- The warning does, at least in part, attempt to highlight some steps Mr T could have 
taken to prevent the scam he fell victim to. It does say to make sure you physically 
see an item before purchasing it  but that is not always possible (as was the case 
here, given the distance Mr T was away from the seller). 
- It then goes on to list some things that consumers could do to check matters;
- The first point advises to contact the person or company where the money is being 
sent. The second point advises to check the email address to ensure it is from the 
correct person. And the third point advises to check for any irregularities in an email 
invoice. While these steps are potentially useful to help identify an email / invoice 
scam, as mentioned above Im mindful that this wasnt the scam that Mr T was falling 
victim to. Here, Mr T was satisfied with whom he was dealing with, and given the 
nature of the scam I dont think any of the steps HSBC recommended would have 
made a difference here or had a material effect on preventing the scam.
- The fourth and fifth bullet points are more relevant, but Im not satisfied they would 
have had a material effect on preventing the scam and overall the warning isnt an 
effective warning as set out by the CRM Code. With the fourth bullet point, HSBC  
advises to check the seller being mindful of false websites and reviews. But again,  
Mr T thought he was dealing with a legitimate seller from an advert from a legitimate 
online marketplace  so I dont think this would have made Mr T stop and think. 
- The price being too good to be true is a very common feature of a vehicle purchase 
scam, but the information presented by HSBC did not highlight this.
I dont consider the information presented to Mr T was strongly relevant to the type of scam 
that he fell victim to. While it does mention car purchases, it also mentions other types of 
potential fraud. I dont consider the warning really brought to life what a scam of this nature 
looks and feels like. Im also mindful that the information HSBC presented to Mr T applied to 
more than one type of large purchase.
In summary, I dont think the warning HSBC gave was impactful or went far enough to be 
effective, so I dont think Mr T acted unreasonably by going ahead and making the payment. 
Overall, I dont consider the warning given was an effective warning as defined by the CRM 
Code. It follows that HSBC has not established it can fairly apply the exception to 
reimbursement relating to ignoring an effective warning.
Did Mr T have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment?Ive also thought about the steps Mr T took to reassure himself about the legitimacy of the 
transaction and whether it was reasonable for him to proceed with the payment. Having 
done so, I am not persuaded Mr T had a reasonable basis for believing that the payee was 
the person he was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services and the 
person or business he transacted with was legitimate.
Mr T has explained that he had made purchases from the online marketplace before and 
paid for goods by way of bank transfer. I can understand how that would have reasonably 
given him some assurance. But the van Mr T was trying to purchase was advertised at just 
over £4,000 and having reviewed recognised industry trade guides, that provide average 
vehicle sale prices based on make, model, vehicle age and mileage, this price is 
considerably less than what comparable vehicles were being sold for at the time of the 
scam. The information I have seen suggests the market value for this van in this condition 
was over £9,000. On this basis, I think the price the van was advertised for was too good to 
be true and ought to have raised concerns.
Alongside this I dont think the reason the fraudster gave Mr T for not being able to pay 
PayPal was plausible, in that there wasnt any clear explanation or reason for how paying by 
PayPal would mean VAT needed to be paid. When considering these together, I think it 
ought to have led Mr T to question further, why the seller wasnt accepting a method of 
payment that would have offered Mr T more protection.
Whilst I accept that people can and do arrange to sell items at a discount for a quick sale, I 
think there were things about the situation that in the cold light of day did not add up. I 
consider that Mr T ought to have had greater concerns about the legitimacy of the seller and 
van and that, in turn, ought to have led to a greater degree of checking on Mr Ts part. 
Im mindful that, taking any of the individual factors above in isolation, they may not have 
been enough to have prevented Mr T from proceeding. But when considering the specific 
circumstances of this case and the factors in the round, on balance, I think that there was 
enough going on and sufficient red flags that Mr T ought reasonably to have taken further 
steps to protect himself. Buying a van, unseen, at a considerable discount was always a risk. 
I think Mr T should have done more than he did to question the deal and to satisfy himself 
that it was legitimate before making the payment.
With the above in mind, in the particular circumstances of this case, I consider that Mr T 
ought to have had concerns about the legitimacy of the goods hed been offered and that, in 
turn, ought to have led to a greater degree of checking on Mr Ts part. In not carrying out 
sufficient checks I dont find he had a reasonable basis for believing the goods were 
genuine. I therefore consider, in line with the provisions of the CRM code, liability should be 
shared equally between HSBC and Mr T.
Finally, Ive considered whether HSBC did all it could to try and recover the money Mr T lost, 
once he had reported the scam to it. From the evidence Ive seen, HSBC did contact the 
receiving bank when he raised the matter, but unfortunately the receiving bank told it that no 
funds remained. So I think HSBC has done what could reasonably have been expected of it 
to try to recover the money
Putting things right
For the reasons explained above, I think its fair that HSBC UK Bank Plc should now;
- Refund Mr T 50% of the money he lost (being £2,000).
- Pay interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly deductible) from the date HSBC declined Mr Ts full claim under the CRM to the date 
of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman