DRN-3018566
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the standard of service he recieved from Lloyds Bank PLC.
What happened
Mr B wanted to make a cash withdrawal of approximately £27,000 from his Lloyds current 
account. When Mr B went to his Lloyds branch to arrange with withdrawal he was unhappy 
that he was questioned by Lloyds staff before entering the building and also that Lloyds staff 
informed him that the branch manager would be unavailable all day, when it turned out that 
the manager was in branch and available when Mr B went inside.
Mr B is also unhappy that it took Lloyds eight days to deliver the money into branch so that 
Mr B could withdraw it, and that when he went to withdraw the money that a large number of 
other Lloyds customers were seen before he was, including customers who had arrived after 
Mr B. Finally, Mr B is unhappy that when the money was being presented to him, he was 
informed by the branch manager that he was on CCTV, which made Mr B feel as though he 
were doing something wrong. Because of all these points, Mr B raised a complaint.
Lloyds looked at Mr Bs complaint. They acknowledged that Mr B had been given incorrect 
information about the branch managers availability and apologised for this and made a 
payment of £50 to Mr B as compensation for this. However, they didnt feel that theyd done 
anything wrong with regard the rest of Mr Bs complaint points, so they didnt uphold the rest 
of Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Lloyds hadnt acted 
unfairly or unreasonably to Mr B regarding the complaint points that Lloyds hadnt upheld. 
Our investigator also felt that the £50 that Lloyds had already paid to Mr B represented a fair 
resolution to his complaint point about being told incorrect information about the availability 
of the branch manager. As such, our investigator didnt uphold this complaint.
Mr B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mr B to have been questioned by 
branch staff before being allowed into the branch. But Lloyds have confirmed that such 
questions were asked to all customers entering branch at that time, and that these questions 
were designed to ensure that customers were correctly routed in branch to avoid 
unnecessary public contact and were a result of Lloyds strategy to minimis the risk of Covid-
19 transmission in its branches. Lloyds position here seems reasonable to me, and I dont 
feel that Mr B was treated unfairly by being asked these questions.
Mr B was also informed at this time that the branch manager with whom he was wanting to 
speak was on conference calls and therefore unavailable all day, but when Mr B went into 
branch, he found the branch manager was assisting customers. Lloyds have apologised to 
Mr B for his being given the incorrect information about the availability of the branch 
manager and have made a payment to Mr B of £50 by way of compensation. Matters of 
compensation can be subjective, but the £50 that Lloyds have already paid here feels fair to 
me, and so I wont be instructing Lloyds to take any further action regarding this point.
Mr B is also unhappy that it took Lloyds eight days to deliver the money he requested to 
branch so that he could withdraw it. I can appreciate Mr Bs frustration here, but it must be 
noted that the cash withdrawal that Mr B requested was an unusually large amount, and in 
such circumstances, it isnt unusual for a branch to have to order the requested withdrawal 
amount to be delivered to them. 
Furthermore, Lloyds have confirmed that at the time that Mr B made his withdrawal request, 
the cut-off time to have the money delivered quicker had passed. As such, it doesnt seem 
unreasonable to me that the next available delivery time for such a large amount was eight 
days later, and it follows that I wont be upholding this aspect of Mr Bs complaint.
Similarly, I also wont be upholding Mr Bs complaint as it relates to the number of customers 
that were served by Lloyds staff before him when he went to withdraw the money, and this is 
because Im satisfied that the nature of Mr Bs withdrawal was such that it was reasonable 
that it would take some time for Lloyds staff to arrange. I also feel that it was sensible of 
Lloyds staff to have continued to serve other customers while Mr Bs withdrawal was being 
arranged, including those that had come into branch after Mr B.
Finally, Mr B is unhappy that he was told that he was on CCTV by the branch manager when 
he was withdrawing his money. I can appreciate how this may have made Mr B feel 
uncomfortable but given the sizable amount of cash being withdrawn by Mr B I would have 
expected Lloyds to have taken precautions which would have included ensuring that Mr B 
receiving the money was recorded on in-branch CCTV. It must be noted that I wasnt present 
at the time of the withdrawal, and so I cant comment on the tone of any discussion that took 
place, but generally speaking I dont feel that Mr B was treated unfairly by being told that he 
was being recorded on CCTV or that any form of apology or compensation to Mr B is 
warranted in this instance.
All of which means, while I can appreciate Mr Bs frustrations with the events surrounding his 
requested cash withdrawal, I cant conclude that Lloyds acted in any way unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr B with regard the majority of the complaint points that Mr B has 
raised. Furthermore, Im satisfied that the complaint response that Lloyds have already 
issued to Mr B regarding the matter of Mr B being given incorrect information about the 
availability of the branch manager  including the payment of £50 compensation to Mr B  
does represent a fair and reasonably resolution to that aspect of Mr Bs complaint.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr B was wanting here, but it follows that I dont 
feel that Lloyds need to take any further action here, and this means that I wont be 
upholding his complaint. I trust that Mr B will understand, given all that Ive explained above, 
why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman