DRN-3437975
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Target Servicing Limited has treated them unfairly by asking 
them to repay overdue management fees. They say this is unfair as it was Targets error that 
led to the fees not being paid.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a help to buy equity loan in December 2016. At the time they 
completed a direct debit instruction to pay a £1 monthly management fee from the date they 
took out the loan. In April 2017 the administration of Mr and Mrs Ss equity loan was 
transferred to Target. 
Target says that, due to an administration error, Mr and Mrs Ss direct debit wasnt set up 
and the management fee hasnt been paid. Mr and Mrs S were only told about this years 
later when Target reviewed any accounts that didnt have an active direct debit. 
On 23 March 2021 Target wrote to Mr and Mrs S. Target asked them to set up a new direct 
debit instruction for the management fee going forward and to arrange to repay the arrears 
of around £50 that had built up since the start of the loan. 
Mr and Mrs S complained to Target. It issued a final response letter on 11 June 2021, 
upholding part of their complaint. Target agreed that the payments hadnt been taken due to 
its administrative error and that it was sorry that Mr and Mrs S were not told about this for 
years. However, Target still asked that Mr and Mrs S make up the missed payments now. It 
said the unpaid management fees were due to be paid by Mr and Mrs S under the terms and 
conditions of the contract they had signed when they took out the equity loan. Target said it 
was unable to waive any of the management fee payments despite its error.
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with Targets response and referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He thought Mr and Mrs Ss complaint 
should be upheld. To put things right, he thought it was reasonable that Target waived the 
management fees outstanding to the point its error was identified. He also thought Targets 
handling of the issue had caused upset to Mr and Mrs S in their particular circumstances. He 
thought it fair that Target pay Mr and Mrs S £75 for the trouble and upset its mistake had 
caused to them.  
Target didnt agree with our investigators findings. It asked that an ombudsman look at the 
complaint again and reach a final decision on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find myself in broad agreement with our investigator about what should be 
done now to put things right. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the terms of the agreement signed by Mr and Mrs S. Im satisfied it was made 
reasonably clear that there was a £1 monthly management fee to be paid. Target has said 
that it made a mistake administering Mr and Mrs Ss help to buy equity loan. And that its 
mistake went unidentified for four years. 
Ive thought about whether Mr and Mrs S could possibly have known sooner that there was a 
problem with the management fee payments they had agreed to make. I can see from the 
annual equity loan statements sent to Mr and Mrs S that they were told by Target each year 
that they had no administrative fees outstanding. I also consider that the amount to be paid 
was so small that I think its plausible that Mr and Mrs S didnt notice it wasnt being taken by 
Target each month. 
I can understand why Mr and Mrs S were upset when they received the letter from Target 
saying they were behind with the payment of fees. They were also frustrated to find that they 
needed to find a way of paying an additional £50 to Target. I consider it would have led to a 
loss of expectation on the part of Mr and Mrs S to find out that the annual statements they 
had relied upon had been incorrectly reporting them as being up to date with payments due. 
Im pleased to see that Target gave Mr and Mrs S some options to repay this amount in a 
way that was affordable to them. Target said it could take the amount owed in full along with 
their first direct debit instalment. Or it said Mr and Mrs S could pay the additional amount 
when they settled their equity loan, or by way of a regular payment arrangement with Target. 
I think its reasonable that it offered these options to Mr and Mrs S.
However, in the particular circumstances of this complaint, I dont think it is fair for Target to 
ask Mr and Mrs S to repay the management fees from the start of the loan to the date the 
problem was explained to them. Im persuaded that if Mr and Mrs S had known that they 
were underpaying this amount sooner, they would have made the payments of £1 each 
month over the years. Targets administrative error meant they didnt have this opportunity. 
I consider that but for Targets error, Mr and Mrs S would have made this payment each 
month for years. And it is only because of Targets mistake that they are being asked to 
make additional payments now. While this amount is due to Target under the contract, I 
dont think it is fair and reasonable for Target to charge these historic fees to Mr and Mrs S 
now.
Mr and Mrs S have said why this matter has had a detrimental impact on them. Theyve 
explained that they have both been suffered long term ill health since the pandemic and that 
this error came to light at a difficult time for their family and during a time of financial 
pressure. 
Im persuaded that this issue has upset Mr and Mrs S. I can understand why they were 
worried to be told they were behind with payments having relied on their annual statements 
which said they were up to date with their equity loan and other fees and costs. 
There have also been other issues with the administration of the loan, such as problems Mrs 
S encountered trying to correct the spelling of their names on Targets records. I understand 
this took months to resolve. I can see why Mrs S felt this was another administrative error on 
top of the monthly management fee issue and this caused her additional stress and 
inconvenience.Putting things right
To put things right, I think that its fair and reasonable that Target waives the monthly 
management fee from the start of the equity loan to March 2021, when the issue was 
identified and explained to Mr and Mrs S. 
I also consider it fair that Target should pay Mr and Mrs S £75 for the trouble and upset 
caused to them by its mistake. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint against Target Servicing Limited is upheld. I direct 
Target Servicing Limited to do the following to settle the matter:
- Waive the monthly management fee from the start of the equity loan to March 2021 
when the issue was identified and explained to Mr and Mrs S;
- Pay Mr and Mrs S £75 for the trouble and upset caused to them by its mistake. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman