DRN-1435526
The complaint
Mrs Q complains that Barclays Bank Plc mis-sold a loan to her. She said she intended to be 
guarantor for her husband who was applying to take out a loan. But the loan was set up in 
her name instead.  
Mrs Q is represented by her son in bringing this complaint. But for clarity  Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by her directly.
What happened
On 29 November 2018 Mrs Q attended a Barclays branch. She said during this visit her 
husband made an application for a personal loan in the sum of £1900. However, Mrs Q said 
there were issues in approving that loan, which led to her agreeing to become a guarantor. 
She said she thought she signed an agreement to that effect. However, she said she later 
discovered that Barclays had set up the loan in her name instead.
By that the time Mrs Q discovered the loan was in her name the funds had already been 
paid into the joint account she holds with her husband. The funds were used to repay a loan 
in Mr Qs name and a £500 cash withdrawal was made at the branch. A further £500 was 
transferred to a savings account in Mr Qs name.
When Mrs Q discovered the loan had been set up in her name she complained to Barclays 
that it had made an error and mis-sold the loan to her. She said she had understood that she 
was a guarantor for her husbands loan. But Barclays said it doesnt offer guarantor loans. 
So it said a guarantor arrangement wouldnt have been discussed as Mrs Q claimed. It said 
there was no mention of Mrs Q being a guarantor for her husband in its records. And it 
stated the branch copy of the signed loan application contains ticks, which demonstrates that 
key information about the loan was discussed with Mrs Q. So, it didnt agree it had made an 
error in how it had set up the loan and it didnt uphold her complaint. 
Being dissatisfied with Barclays response to her complaint Mrs Q referred it to our service. 
Our investigator assessed the evidence Mrs Q and Barclays had provided but didnt uphold 
this complaint. Overall, they didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. But Mrs Q 
disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mrs Q experienced here. I can see how strongly she 
feels about her complaint and I appreciate the reason why shes brought it to our service. My 
role is to assess whether I think Barclays made a mistake, or treated Mrs Q unfairly, such 
that it needs to now put things right.  
Ive read and considered all the information provided by Mrs Q and Barclays, but Ill 
concentrate my decision on what I think is relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about 
it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The crux of this complaint is whether Barclays made a mistake in setting up this loan in Mrs 
Qs name. 
Mrs Q told our service she agreed to be a guarantor for Mr Qs loan. However, Barclays said 
it doesnt offer guarantor loans  and Ive no reason to doubt what it says about that. With 
that in mind I think its unlikely it would discuss a guarantor arrangement with Mrs Q. This 
also explains why theres no evidence of any discussions recorded about Mrs Q being a 
guarantor for this loan.
Ive seen evidence which satisfies me that Barclays explained to Mrs Q in branch that she 
was agreeing to take out a loan in her own name. I say this because the branch copy of the 
signed loan application Barclays has provided our service with contains ticks against key 
information relating to the loan, which indicates to me the loan was discussed with Mrs Q in 
branch before she signed the agreement.
Ive had sight of a letter Barclays gave Mrs Q on 29 November 2018, which states your new 
loan has been approved. The letter enclosed a number of documents including key 
information about Mrs Qs loan and the loan agreement. And it asked her to check the 
enclosed information before signing the loan agreement. 
I can see that the loan agreement Barclays provided to Mrs Q clearly outlines the loan 
amount, monthly repayments, loan term, interest rate and total charge for credit. It also 
confirms Barclays agreement to provide Mrs Q with a loan. Theres no mention of Mr Q or 
any guarantor arrangement. And Mrs Qs right to withdraw from the agreement is explained 
in the detail Id expect.
I can see Mrs Q signed that agreement on 29 November 2018. As its a binding agreement 
Id expect her to read and understand it prior to signing it. If Mrs Q had difficulty 
understanding the loan agreement she could have asked Barclays to clarify it. And I cant 
hold Barclays responsible if she signed a document without reading or understanding it.  
Barclays wrote to Mrs Q on 30 November 2018 confirming that her new loan had been 
opened. This letter confirmed the loan start and end date and it referenced her withdrawal 
rights. I think this letter provided Mrs Q a further opportunity to raise any concerns she may 
have had about the suitability of the loan or how it had been set up.
I can see that, on 6 December 2018, Barclays wrote to Mrs Q to remind her that it would be 
collecting its first loan payment on 5 January 2019. Of significance here is that all 
correspondence sent by Barclays in relation to this loan is addressed solely to Mrs Q. 
Theres no mention of Mr Q in any communication, which I would expect if Mrs Q was a 
guarantor.  
Overall, Im satisfied that all the correspondence and documentation Barclays gave Mrs Q 
clearly indicated that the loan had been set up in her name. I think she was given sufficient 
information to determine the suitability of the loan she signed for. And I think Mrs Q was 
given at least two opportunities to withdraw for the loan if she had concerns over how it had 
been set up. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs Q but Im not persuaded she was misled by Barclays and I 
havent seen enough evidence to enable me to fairly conclude that it made an error in how it 
set up this loan. It follows that Im not going to ask Barclays to do anything. 
I realise Mrs Q will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve her dispute with Barclays informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant help 
Mrs Q any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman