DRN-4314214
The complaint
Mr B complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank, wont refund a 
payment made on his credit card to a car hire company.
What happened
In January 2023 Mr B used his Tesco credit card to pay just under £70 to a hire company in 
relation to a hire car after a no-fault incident. Mr B says he believed that amount would be 
eventually charged to the at-fault driver. However he had to bear that cost. He complained to 
his insurer who offered him a hundred pounds for the service it had provided.
Mr B felt he shouldnt bear the cost of the payment of just under £70 so he took his dispute 
to Tesco. It raised a chargeback and the car hire company said Mr B paid almost £70 in 
relation to the car hire, that it was entitled to charge Mr B this under the contract it had 
agreed with him and hed authorised the transaction. So Tesco, having credited him £70 
whilst it looked into the matter re-debited the amount. So he brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator felt that Tesco had treated Mr B fairly in relation to the chargeback and that 
Mr Bs claim didnt meet the prerequisites of Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Since this assessment by our Investigator Mr B has told this service that his insurer has 
refunded the disputed amount of just under £70. 
Mr B didnt agree with our Investigators assessment. So the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has made many arguments on this matter. Ive considered them all. But Ill only 
address the key issues here as I see them.
I should make very clear that this decision is not about the insurer, the at fault driver or any 
other party other than Tesco. Tesco has obligations to treat Mr B fairly with regard to 
Chargeback and Section 75. Mr B accepts he made the transaction with the car hire 
company expecting it to be charged by the car hire company to the at fault driver. So its 
clear Mr B accepts he made the transaction. And Ive seen the invoice for it and the 
transaction on the bank records.
could Tesco challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr B does 
here, Tesco (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process. I dont 
think Tesco couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr B didnt properly authorise the 
transaction, given the conclusion on this issue that Ive already set out.
Here Tesco did raise a chargeback and the car hire company responded. The test here is 
did Tesco fairly consider the car hire companys response when considering whether to 
continue with the chargeback. It considered the car hire companys evidence and didnt take 
the chargeback further. Ive considered the invoice and other evidence provided and when 
considered in light of Mr Bs own comments on the matter, Im satisfied Tesco treated Mr B 
fairly. I say this because its clear he had to pay that amount under the contract and did so. 
So I think Tesco treated Mr B fairly.
Mr B points to being told the car hire company had forty-five days to respond and challenges 
whether it responded in this timeframe. But I dont think this makes a difference because its 
clear he had to pay what he did under the contract and there was no persuasive reason for 
him to keep that money anyway. And in any event Im satisfied the chargeback time limit was 
met. And even if Tescos explanation of the time limit to Mr B could have been better this 
doesnt mean Tesco should refund that amount or that it had treated unfairly. And in any 
event it transpires that another company has decided to bear that cost. So irrespective of 
what happened here Mr B hasnt suffered a financial loss here. So I see no persuasive 
reason for Tesco to do more.
Section 75
There are some requirements set out in the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) which have to 
be met before deciding whether there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
car hire company that Tesco could be held liable for. The CCA requires the single cash price 
item be over £100 and less than £30,000. This transaction was less than £70. So Im 
satisfied that Tesco couldnt be held responsible here for a like claim to that against the car 
hire company under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. So it has nothing further to 
do here under this legislation in this case.
Other matters
For the sake of completeness Ill deal with one of Mr Bs other arguments. Mr B says If 
Tesco Bank don't communicate correctly then they need to accept the loss. I dont agree. 
The disputed amount doesnt flow causally from Tescos letter to Mr B. He always was liable 
for that amount and thus Tesco treated him fairly be charging it to his account. And in any 
event hes confirmed another party has covered that amount. So I see no persuasive reason 
for Tesco to do anymore.
Mr B has also said it should be considered whether Tesco Bank is fit and proper to conduct
further regulated business not just swept under the carpet. Im satisfied Tesco treated Mr B 
fairly. Im not persuaded any further action is required here bearing in mind that it is fair that 
Mr B should carry the cost of this disputed transaction and in any event another party has 
decided to cover that amount. Tesco has treated Mr B fairly and the evidence of this is 
significant, substantial, and persuasive.
In summary I think Tesco made a fair decision in not pursuing the chargeback any further. 
And I dont think it could be held responsible under S75 either. So I dont think I can fairly 
require Tesco to do more. So this complaint is unsuccessful.I do appreciate that this isnt the decision Mr B wants to read as he is clearly invested in this 
matter. But I dont think Tesco treated him unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against that Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman