DRN-1455533
The complaint
Mr C complains that Aviva Insurance Limited didnt offer a refund on his motor insurance 
premium for the time his car was being repaired.
What happened
Mr C had a car insurance policy with Aviva. He was involved in an accident on 5 December 
2018. His car was collected for repair six days later. It took Avivas repairers 16 weeks to 
fully repair the car and it wasn't returned to him until March 2019. Unfortunately, Mr C had to 
take his car back to his dealership when the compressor failed in April 2019. While this was 
not related to the accident, Mr C pointed out that the car standing idle for nearly 5 months 
could have contributed to the failure.
Mr C complained about the delay and the service he received. He also complained that he 
wasnt offered a courtesy car. Finally, he asked Aviva to refund part of his insurance 
premium to reflect the 16-week period he was without his car.
Aviva upheld Mr Cs complaint. It offered him £200 compensation to apologise for the delays 
fixing his car and for its poor service. It also refunded Mr C £182 to cover the cost of the new 
compressor.
Mr C told us hes happy with Avivas offer to pay for the new compressor, as well as the 
compensation for the delays and poor service. However, he still wants Aviva to refund part of 
his premium for the time he was without his car.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. She found that 
Mr Cs car needed significant repairs and the repairer experienced delays in obtaining 
specialist replacement parts from overseas. She thought these delays were largely outside 
Avivas control. She thought its total compensation of £382 was fair and felt it didnt need to 
do anything more, such as offer a premium refund.
Mr C disagreed with our investigator. In particular, he felt she had overlooked his main 
reason for coming to us  his request for a partial refund of his insurance premium to reflect 
the time he was without his car. 
The case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I apologise to both parties for the time its taken for this complaint to come to me for a 
decision. Im grateful to them for their patience. 
Mr C asked our investigator to make sure I understood his complaint is only about Aviva not 
offering a part refund on the insurance premium for the time the car was being repaired. So 
thats what Ive focused on. 
Mr Cs policy booklet covers two situations where a premium refund might be available:
Where a customer chooses to suspend cover if s/he has no insurable vehicle but 
wants to maintain a policy record (Section 12).
Policy cancellation (General Conditions).
Im satisfied that neither situation applies here. Even if they did apply, typically an insurer 
wouldnt offer a premium refund once a customer makes a successful claim. This is because 
the customer has effectively already used their policy. If an insurer had caused a 
policyholder to be without their car for longer than necessary, we might require it to pay 
compensation to recognise the additional costs incurred but that wouldnt be a refund of 
premium. As Mr C has said he only wants me to look at a refund of his premium, I havent 
considered those aspects.
The total cost of repairs to Mr Cs car was estimated as £15,629 in the 27 December 2018 
report by Avivas repairer. I havent seen the final bill but Ive no reason to doubt it was in line 
with the December 2018 quote.
Thats what Mr Cs premium paid for. It didnt cover him just for being able to drive the car. It 
was so he didnt have to pay for repairs during the policy term. Im satisfied that Avivas 
decision not to refund part of Mr Cs premium was reasonable.
Mr C told us he wanted the answer to a very simple question  was he entitled to a premium 
refund for the time Avivas repairer had his car? Im sorry to tell him that hes not. I can 
imagine it was incredibly frustrating for him to be without his car for so long. However, Im 
satisfied that his policy did what it was supposed to do and covered him for the cost of the 
repairs. It follows that Im satisfied Aviva doesnt need to refund any part of his insurance 
premium.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman