DRN-3427220
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society unsuitably transferred his 
defined benefit occupational pension scheme to a group stakeholder pension plan. 
What happened
Mr B was an active member of his employers defined benefit occupational pension scheme 
(the scheme) in which he had 15 years of service relating to his employment from 1989 to 
2004. Mr Bs employer took a decision to close the scheme in July 2004 at which point Mr B 
became a deferred member. Mr Bs employer set up a new group personal pension (GPP) 
with Royal London which Mr B applied to join in March 2005. His new occupational pension 
was a defined contribution scheme and the benefits it provided were based on investment 
performance. 
During 2005, there were concerns that Mr Bs employer was in financial difficulty and that it 
wouldnt be able to honour its commitment to the DB scheme. If this happened Mr B 
understood that the scheme would enter the PPF (pension protection fund), the 
governments scheme which guarantees the rights of its members but only up to a fixed 
percentage. Ultimately, Mr Bs employer was able to provide additional funding to the DB 
scheme and it didnt move to the PPF. But restrictions similar to those operated by the PPF 
were applied to the fund such as limiting the level of income that it would pay to its members 
to 90% of the projected pension. 
Because he was concerned about losing out in relation to his deferred DB scheme, Mr B 
looked into transferring it. He was sent a letter by the scheme trustees in November 2005 
stating that the CETV (cash equivalent transfer value) of his DB scheme was £90,508. The 
letter also stated: 
The Trustee of the Scheme wishes to draw your attention in particular to paragraphs 2, 4, 5,
6 and 7 of the Additional Information section in the accompanying Statement of Entitlement.
The unusual and complex circumstances in which the Scheme finds itself mean that it is very
important indeed that you obtain advice from an experienced adviser who is familiar with
Pension Protection Fund issues.
Section 2 of the letter said the transfer value was guaranteed for three months from the
guaranteed date of 22 November 2005. Section 4 said that if Mr B failed to notify the 
trustees of his intention to transfer within three months of the guarantee date, he wouldnt
have the right to another transfer quote for another twelve months.
Section 5 said: The Schemes current circumstances are complex there is no prospect of 
[employer] paying the level of contributions required to enable the Scheme to continue in the 
long term. The Scheme is in discussions with the PPF As a general rule this means that 
members.. [..]..will receive compensation equal to 90% of their benefits.
Section 6 said: If the Schemes current special circumstances had not existed and its
funding level would have permitted the payment of unreduced transfer values, your transfer
value would have been £93,024.
Section 7 stated; The Trustee is not able to advise members on whether to take a transfer
from the Scheme. The Trustee strongly recommends that you take independent financial
advice to help you consider carefully the possible merits and risks associated with taking a
transfer value.
The letter then set out some of the aspects Mr B should consider and discuss with an
adviser. 
Mr B made enquiries with Royal London about transferring his DB scheme CETV to the GPP 
which had been set up earlier that year. Royal London wrote to Mr B on 13 December 2005 
with information about moving his benefits and enclosing some forms for him to complete if 
he wished to proceed. The letter said: If you decide to proceed with the transfer into your 
Stakeholder Plan then this transaction will be dealt with on an Execution Only" basis as no 
advice has been asked for or given. I am unable to provide financial advice in relation to 
pension transfers. If you require financial advice, or are in any doubt regarding the suitability 
of taking this action, then you should contact an Independent Financial Adviser.
Mr B completed the forms to transfer his OPS to the GPP on 19 December 2005. The
declaration he signed stated: I fully understand that this transfer payment may not be in my 
interests and I have received no advice from Scottish Life in connection with this transfer 
payment. 
Mr Bs DB scheme CETV was transferred to the GPP at the end of January 2006.
In March 2021 Mr B complained to Royal London. He said he didnt think it was appropriate 
for it to have offered to transfer his DB scheme benefits because he didnt understand the 
risks involved and he believed the transfer had left him substantially worse off. He said he 
said he felt coerced into transferring his DB scheme without fully understanding what he was 
doing. He said he didnt think such a transfer would happen today. Mr B said some of his 
colleagues were now receiving redress and compensation for transferring out and he felt he 
may be entitled to similar compensation from Royal London. 
Royal London looked into Mr Bs complaint but didnt uphold it. It issued its final response 
letter in May 2021 and said it hadnt provided him with any financial advice at the time of the 
transfer and that it had recommended at the time that he seek independent financial advice if 
he had any concerns. It said that the transfer had been processed on a non-advised basis so 
it wasnt responsible for any alleged loss.
Unhappy with the outcome of Royal Londons investigation, Mr B complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked into his complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. He also 
considered whether Mr Bs complaint was one that this service could consider given the 
length of time that had passed since the event Mr B was complaining about. Our investigator 
was satisfied that Mr B had only recently become aware that he had cause for complaint so 
he said his complaint had been brought to us in time and was one we could look at. Our 
investigator went on to say that the transfer had been carried out on an execution only basis; 
Royal London hadnt given Mr B any advice so it wasnt responsible for his decision to 
transfer his DB scheme. 
Mr B disagreed with our investigators findings so the complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision. Royal London didnt dispute that the complaint had been made in time and made 
no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all the evidence associated with Mr Bs complaint and despite my natural 
sympathy for the situation he found himself in in relation to his pension in 2005/2006, and for 
the situation he now finds himself in regarding his DB scheme transfer, Im satisfied that 
Royal London didnt recommend that he transfer his scheme in 2005 or coerce him into 
doing so. Although it will come as a disappointment to him, Ive seen no evidence that Royal 
London advised Mr B in any way. Unfortunately for Mr B, I cant hold Royal London 
responsible for advice it didnt provide. Ill explain why.
Ive set out above how the transfer took place on an execution only/non-advised basis. I 
appreciate that Mr B thinks that it shouldnt be possible for a financial business to facilitate a 
transfer of an occupation pension scheme to a personal pension on an execution only basis. 
And the industry regulator agrees with him as under regulations introduced in 2015, it is no 
longer possible to transfer an OPS with benefits worth more than £30,000 to a personal 
pension without providing advice. 
Before 2007 the regulator defined an execution only transaction as: 
A transaction executed by a firm upon the specific instructions of a client where the firm
does not give advice on investments relating to the merits of the transaction.
That means that in 2005 when Mr Bs transfer occurred it was possible to facilitate it on an 
execution only basis and there was a definition in place at the time. In addition, there was a 
requirement for financial businesses to communicate with their customers in a way that was 
clear, fair and not misleading. 
So Ive looked at the documentary evidence available to me to see if Royal London complied 
with this requirement. And I have to say that, from what I have seen, I think it has. For 
example Royal London said in the letter it wrote to Mr B on 13 December 2005: 
 this transaction will be dealt with on an Execution Only" basis as no advice has been
asked for or given. I am unable to provide financial advice in relation to pension transfers. If
you require financial advice, or are in any doubt regarding the suitability of taking this action,
then you should contact an Independent Financial Adviser.
I think that what Royal London said here was stated clearly and fairly and wasnt in any way 
misleading. Mr B was put on notice by Royal London that it was providing him with no 
advice. It also said he hadnt requested any and that he should consider contacting an IFA if 
he had any doubts about the suitability of what he was doing. 
And the letter included a key features document and a personal illustration that clearly set 
out what M Bs benefits might be at retirement and warned him that the figures mentioned 
were examples and not guaranteed. I can see that he was warned that the illustrative figures 
werent to be taken as either maximum or minimum amounts and that what he could get 
back depended on how his investment grew, the tax treatment it was subject to and what 
interest rates were at the time he retired. So Im satisfied that Royal London didnt try to 
mislead Mr B into thinking that it had given him any advice regarding the suitability of 
transferring his DB scheme. And I think it was clear and fair in its dealings with Mr B.
Mr B has told us that around the time of the change in his employers OPS in 2005 there 
were presentations to groups of employees and information was distributed. Whilst theres 
no documentary evidence of either, I cant reasonably conclude that the provision of 
collective information, that wasnt specific to Mr B as an individual, could be said to meet the 
threshold of being classed as advice. And I cant ignore the warnings Mr B received at the time, from the trustees and later from Royal London, to take independent financial advice. 
So I think its clear that no direct advice was provided by Royal London in relation to the 
transfer of the DB scheme to the GPP.
So Im satisfied that Mr B was told he should take independent advice before transferring 
and also knew that, whatever information he had been given up to that point, it didnt 
constitute advice from Royal London. The transfer went ahead on an execution only basis 
and Royal London cant be said to be responsible for any decision Mr B made to move his 
DB scheme to the GPP. 
Ive also thought about whether Mr B was placed under any undue pressure, or coerced, by 
Royal London or his employer to transfer his DB scheme without being given the opportunity 
to take advice. I dont doubt this would have been a stressful time for him, as there were 
concerns over not just his income in retirement, but also immediate job security. But Ive 
seen no evidence that Mr B was placed under any undue pressure to transfer his scheme 
and I note that it he was the one that approached the trustees to see what the transfer value 
of his DB scheme was. And when Mr B received the CETV from the trustees he was 
informed it was valid for three months so he had plenty of time to exercise his right to seek 
advice at that time if hed wanted to.
It follows that because Royal London didnt give Mr B any advice in 2005, and that its 
dealings with him were fair, clear and not misleading, I cant say its responsible for his 
decision to transfer his DB scheme to the GPP so I cant reasonably uphold this complaint. 
I havent considered whether or not it was appropriate for Mr B to move his benefits at the 
time, because this complaint relates only to whether or not the transfer met the requirements 
at the time for execution only business, which Ive explained it did. It follows that I can go on 
to consider the suitability of the transfer itself.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman