DRN-4100181
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy how American Express Services Europe Limited handled his request for 
help to recover his money following his cancellation of an airline flight. 
What happened
In March 2020 Mr S paid for a flight for him and his wife. He arranged it direct through the 
airline, who Ill refer to as E, and he paid £340.54 using his American Express credit card. 
The flight was scheduled for September 2020.
In May 2020 Mr S got in touch with E to cancel the flight. He said that he didnt want to wear 
a facemask for the duration of the flight, as it would make him distressed and uncomfortable. 
As he felt the terms of the flight had changed because of the regulations imposed on E by 
the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr S asked for a refund. E explained to Mr S that, at the time of his 
request to cancel, the flight was still scheduled to depart as planned and, because of that, he 
wasnt entitled to a refund. He was given the option to rebook the flight for a later date. 
Mr S got in touch with American Express in June 2020 and asked them to raise a Section 75 
claim for him. He completed the claim form and returned it to American Express with the 
evidence he felt supported his right to a refund. That included scientific evidence that he felt 
confirmed flying wouldnt be safe for him, and amounted to a change in the terms of the 
contract with E.
It took American Express a long while to give Mr S an answer to his claim. This didnt 
happen until October 2021. And while his claim was being considered, Mr S made numerous 
complaints to American Express, mainly about how long the process was taking. Once 
theyd reviewed his claim, American Express told Mr S that his claim for a refund was 
declined. They said that E hadnt breached their terms and conditions as it was Mr Ss 
decision not to travel, as opposed to E cancelling the flight  and there was no entitlement in 
Es terms and conditions for Mr S to receive a refund in these circumstances. 
Mr S remained unhappy and complained to American Express again. He said he didnt think 
the claim had been looked into properly, and he didnt agree with the decision. He said the 
evidence hed provided confirmed flying would have been potentially dangerous to his 
health, which he deemed to be a significant change to the terms and conditions hed agreed 
to when arranging the flight. He was also unhappy with the overall length of time American 
Express had taken to provide him with their answer. 
American Express responded to Mr Ss latest complaint in January 2022. In their response 
they explained that Mr Ss previous complaints had all received final response letters 
including referral rights to our service and, as such, American Express werent going to 
address any of the previous complaint points. They maintained that the decision not to 
uphold his Section 75 claim was the right one. American Express did accept that Mr S 
receiving an automated response to his email in response to the declination of his claim may 
have caused some confusion and prevented Mr S from getting some answers he was 
seeking in relation to his claim, and they credited Mr Ss account with £25 as a gesture of 
goodwill. 
Mr S brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said that, 
while American Express hadnt raised a chargeback for Mr S, he didnt see the detriment in 
this, as he didnt think they had an option to do so. He said that Es terms and conditions 
hadnt been breached when they didnt provide Mr S with a full refund and, while the 
investigator acknowledged the reasons why Mr S chose to cancel the flight, he said 
American Expresss decision to decline his Section 75 claim was a fair one. He said he felt 
American Expresss offer of £25 for the poor communication following the Section 75 
outcome email was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr S didnt agree. He maintained that the original terms and conditions of his booking were 
changed when it became clear he would be required to wear a facemask for the duration of 
the flight. He said that American Express could and should have raised a chargeback 
claim for him. He also said the offer of £25 was derisory considering the length of time 
American Express had taken to provide him with their answer to his claim. 
As Mr S didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are different ways that a bank can assist customers who have had issues with goods 
or services not being provided. In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from 
the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment settlement 
disputes are resolved between cardholders and suppliers/merchants. They are dealt with 
under the relevant card scheme rules. In certain circumstances the process provides a way 
for American Express to ask for a payment Mr S made to be refunded. Those circumstances 
can include where a refund hasnt been provided. 
There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one. 
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists 
and there is a reasonable chance of success. 
In Mr Ss case American Express have said they didnt raise a chargeback claim when Mr S 
got in touch with them and provided his claim form and evidence, as hed asked them to 
consider his claim under Section 75. Id expect American Express to explore all options 
available to them when a consumer makes a request for help to recover their money, but in 
this case Im not persuaded that, by not raising a chargeback claim for Mr S, they have 
caused him any detriment. Ill explain why.
I fully understand Mr Ss concern over the risks he potentially faced in flying during the 
pandemic, and why he felt he couldnt take the trip hed arranged. But, as our investigator 
explained, that didnt give grounds for a successful chargeback. At the time Mr S raised it, 
the flight was scheduled to go ahead, and his booking terms didnt make provision for a 
refund in these circumstances. With this in mind, although I understand why Mr S feels 
American Express could and should have raised it with E, I dont agree with him. And had 
American Express done so, his claim would likely have been defended on this basis. Even if 
American Express could have raised it when Mr S provided his form and evidence, based on 
what had been provided I can understand why American Express decided not to. As Im 
more persuaded than not that any chargeback claim would have been defended successfully 
by E  it follows that Im persuaded that, by not raising it, American Express havent left Mr S 
out of pocket. 
Alternatively, or in addition to a chargeback, a bank can go on to consider whether there has been a breach of contract (or misrepresentation) under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974.
Section 75 says that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has an 
equal right to claim against the credit provider if theres either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. 
But for Section 75 to apply, there are certain criteria that need to be satisfied before looking 
at whether a breach of contract or misrepresentation has occurred. These include that there 
is a specific relationship between the parties, known as the debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) 
relationship and that the purchase meets a certain cash price. 
American Express did consider a Section 75 claim for Mr S. But, for the same reasons as 
Ive explained above when talking about chargeback, they declined it. They said that Es 
terms and conditions didnt allow for a refund to be given if it was Mr S that cancelled the 
flight, irrespective of the reasons for doing so. I agree with American Expresss decision 
here. Mr S feels that, by having to wear a facemask for the duration of the flight, E have 
fundamentally changed their terms and conditions from the time of his booking, which Im 
interpreting as Mr S suggesting theres been a breach of the contract. But there isnt 
anything contained in the terms and conditions that would support Mr Ss contention in this 
respect. They say that the flight amount is non-refundable if cancelled by him. They also give 
E permission to refuse boarding in certain circumstances and I think that would have 
happened had Mr S attempted to fly without wearing a facemask. Im not persuaded that this 
specific provision amounts to a significant change to the flight arrangements as Mr S 
believes. So, I dont think the contract has been breached or misrepresented here, and Im 
satisfied American Expresss decision to decline the Section 75 claim was a fair one in the 
circumstances. 
Mr S has also complained about the customer service he received from American Express 
while his claim has been with them for review. And he feels the £25 offered in their latest 
complaint response, and endorsed by our investigator, is derisory considering how long hes 
had to wait for answer. 
Our investigator has said that part of Mr Ss complaint was about complaint handling, which 
our service doesnt has jurisdiction to look at. Having reviewed everything, Im more 
persuaded that Mr Ss complaint is about the claim handling and the outcome, not complaint 
handling, which our service can look into. But that being the case Mr S was told by American 
Express in his previous complaint responses that he could bring those complaints to our 
service if he wished. And American Express have credited his account for any errors they 
believe are warranted because of their handling of the claim. Because of that, Im not going 
to ask them to do anything more here. My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman