DRN-2730389
The complaint
Mr T says Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL) is responsible for errors and delays in 
the transfer of his Personal Pension Plan (PPP) from Utmost Life & Pensions (UL&P) into 
his IISL Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP); and for errors and delays in processing the 
withdrawal of his 25% tax free cash (TFC) entitlement from the SIPP. He seeks 
compensation for losses and a form of penalty against IISL.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the matter and concluded that Mr Ts complaint should 
be upheld. She said mainly as follows:
Requests were put to IISL for its submissions on the complaint, but it had not 
provided its file for Mr Ts case. As such, available evidence is limited mainly to 
information that Mr T has provided to us.
Mr T made his transfer application on 6 February 2020 and it initially featured his 
entire PPP; however on 27 February IISLs third-party administrator erroneously 
returned the application form because they wrongly believed a discharge form was 
required and was missing; Mr T decided, on the same date, to amend his instruction 
and to transfer only the cash element of the PPP.
By 5 March Mr T had complained about the ongoing delay in the transfer process. 
IISL responded to confirm there had been a delay because its administrator had 
made an error with regards to the discharge form, which was not required. It said it 
had requested the transfer from UL&P on 10 March and it confirmed placing 50 GBP 
worth of credit in Mr Ts SIPP as an apology for the delay. 
IISL received Mr Ts transferred cash (of around 451,000 GBP) on 10 April and 
applied it to his SIPP on 14 April. Mr T applied for his TFC on the same date. He was 
told this would be in the amount of 112,788.29 GBP but on 15 May he was paid 
112,016.44 GBP. He complained to IISL and it eventually agreed to pay the 
difference of 771.85 GBP, in addition to compensation of 150 GBP for the level of 
service Mr T had received in the transfer matter.
Based on the terms for the SIPP, related to valuation of assets, the date of 
crystallisation that should have been applied to the SIPPs value  for the calculation 
of the TFC  was 14 April, when Mr T requested the TFC; reasonable interpretation 
of the relevant term is that the date of request sets the date of crystallisation; IISL 
disputed this interpretation in its correspondence with Mr T but it is a reasonable 
interpretation and IISL should not have used the date of 28 April. It is not clear that 
this put Mr T at a financial disadvantage, but if it did IISL should address that.
There was a transfer process delay between 27 February and 10 March caused by 
IISL and its administrator, but IISL does not appear to have been responsible for any 
other delay; the transfer request should not have been delayed between these dates 
and it should have been sent to UL&P on 27 February; it took 31 days for the cash to 
be sent by UL&P and received by IISL; so, had the transfer request been sent to 
UL&P on 27 February the cash would have been in the SIPP by 30 March.
Given that Mr T asked for his TFC immediately as the cash arrived in his SIPP (on 14 
April) he would probably have done the same on 30 March if the cash had arrived in 
his SIPP on this date; payment of the TFC should have happened within 10 working 
days of a request so the four weeks (between 14 April and 15 May) it actually took 
IISL to make the payment to Mr T was too long; based on this timespan and on Mr T 
asking for the TFC on 30 March he would have received it on 14 April; so he was 
unfairly deprived the TFC from this date and up to 15 May when he actually received 
it; IISL should compensate him for this by paying him interest on the TFC amount he 
received on 15 May, for the period between 14 April and 15 May; IISL should also 
pay him interest on the TFC balance that was paid to him, for the period between 14 
April and when the balance was paid to him.
Mr Ts SIPP transaction history stands as evidence that he was actively investing at 
the relevant time and that he would have invested the SIPP cash after conclusion of 
the transfer. The delayed transfer was therefore at a cost to him, so IISL should 
compensate him for being deprived access to his cash (minus the TFC) during the 
delay  that is, between 30 March (when the cash should have been received in the 
SIPP) and 14 April (when the cash was actually received in the SIPP)  by paying 
him interest for this delay period.
The total of 200 GBP  that is, 150 GBP cash and 50 GBP account credit  that IISL 
has presented to Mr T is a fair amount to compensate him for his service experience.
Mr T agreed with the investigators summary of the factual circumstances and commented 
on some areas of her view. In the main, he confirmed that the TFC balance was paid to him 
on 17 September and he submitted that he should be awarded more for the four months 
delay before the payment than the interest proposed by the investigator; that not to do so 
would fail to give IISL an incentive to improve its service; that no financial disadvantage 
resulted from the crystallisation date issue but an award should nevertheless be considered 
in order to address IISLs breach of the SIPP terms in this respect; that whilst this service 
does not have the powers of the regulator we have a quasi-judicial capacity that means we 
should consider a penalty based award against IISL  above any compensation for direct 
financial loss  for its wrongdoings in his case; and that such an award would be comparable 
to the exemplary or punitive damages he could get from legal action.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions presented by the investigator for the 
same reasons she gave. It does not appear that IISL made any submissions in response to 
her view, so I can only address the issues in the complaint as they are and the comments 
that Mr T has made.
The issues are  the transfer of Mr Ts PPP cash to his SIPP; compensation for any delay in 
the transfer process; Mr Ts application for and receipt of his TFC; accuracy of the TFC 
amount he received; compensation for any delay in his receipt of the TFC; compensation for 
any trouble and upset caused to Mr T by the transfer related service he received from IISL; 
and Mr Ts claims for incentive based and punitive based compensation awards.I am satisfied with evidence showing that IISLs and its administrators transfer request to 
UL&P was unduly delayed between 27 February and 10 March, during which they appear to 
have pursued an irrelevant discharge form. As the investigator said, I am not persuaded that 
IISL was responsible for any other period of delay with specific regard to the PPP to SIPP 
cash transfer. I have not seen reason why the request could not have been made on 27 
February, it could have been made on this date so it should have. 
I also have not seen evidence to suggest that UL&P would have been any quicker in 
remitting the cash if the request had been made earlier. It appears safe to conclude that if 
the request had been made earlier on 27 February, it would probably still have taken the 
same 31 days between cash request and cash receipt (in the SIPP) that it took for the 
delayed request. This means that if IISL had made the request on 27 February, as it should 
have, Mr T would have received the transferred cash in his SIPP on 30 March (the relevant 
31st day appears to have been 29 March, but that was a Sunday/non business day). 
Instead, he received the transferred cash in his SIPP on 14 April, so he was deprived access 
to that cash for the period in between. I am satisfied with evidence that he received the 
correct transferred cash amount. However, like the investigator, I am also satisfied that there 
was a cost to Mr T arising from him having no access to his cash during this period. His 
SIPP transaction history shows he was actively engaged in making investments at the time, 
so he is likely to have used the cash for that if it was available earlier. Even if this was not 
the case, he was still unfairly deprived access to and use of his cash during a delay that 
should not have happened. As I set out in the next section, he is entitled to compensation for 
the delayed receipt of the cash in his SIPP, excluding the total TFC payment given that it 
was an amount withdrawn from the SIPP and not intended for use in the SIPP.
The SIPP valuation applicable to Mr Ts TFC request should have been based on the date of 
his request (14 April). I have considered the relevant terms for the SIPP and it provides that 
the crystallisation date that IISL was obliged to us was the date of Mr Ts instruction/request. 
This was obviously important because the TFC was based on 25% of the SIPPs value, so 
the SIPPs value determined the TFC amount. For the reasons given below, the date of 14 
April is no longer pivotal in this case and I note Mr Ts confirmation that he incurred no 
financial disadvantage from IISL using a crystallisation date of 28 April.
I agree with the investigators finding that the month (approximately) it took for IISL to 
process and pay the TFC to Mr T was excessive. Guided by relevant guidelines, it should 
have taken no more than 10 working days. IISL eventually conceded that the TFC amount 
paid to Mr T on 15 May had a shortfall and, as he has confirmed, the balance was paid to 
him on 17 September.
Compensation for Mr T being deprived use of his TFC, due to its delayed and separated 
receipts, is inevitably based on the date of 30 March when the transfer to his SIPP should 
have been completed; he asked for the TFC immediately as the transfer completed (on 14 
April) so he probably would have done the same on 30 March; the process, up to payment, 
should have taken no more than 10 working days; so he should have received his TFC on 
14 April (with allowances for two public holidays in this period).
Instead, Mr T received the initial TFC payment on 15 May and then the balance on 17 
September. IISL should have remitted the correct TFC amount in one payment on 14 April, 
so Mr T was unfairly deprived use of his TFC from 14 April to 15 May and he was unfairly 
deprived use of the balance TFC payment from 14 April to 17 September. As I set out in the 
next section, he is entitled to compensation for this.
Overall and on balance, I am persuaded that the total of 200 GBP offered by IISL to Mr T  for the trouble and upset caused to him by the service problems he faced in this case  is a 
fair and reasonable amount. It reflects the fact that, but for the TFC balance payment (which 
was a comparatively small amount), the delays in his case were no more than a few weeks 
and it reflects the fact that Mr T is being compensated separately for financial loss/loss of 
use of his money. It is also broadly consistent with the sort of award this service has made 
for trouble and upset in comparable cases.
This services remit does not extend to punitive awards, it also does not extend to awards for 
the purpose of creating an incentive or disincentive for firms in terms of the services they 
provide. I appreciate that firms might, in practice, be incentivised (or otherwise) in any 
possible way in response to a decision from this service. However, that would possibly be a 
by-product of our decision-making process. Creating such an effect is not the primary 
purpose of our decision-making process. For these reasons, I disagree with Mr Ts claims for 
punitive and incentive based awards. 
Putting things right
To compensate Mr T fairly, IISL must do as follows:
Pay him 150 GBP for the trouble and upset caused to him by the service problems 
he faced in this case, if this payment has not already been made to him. Available 
evidence is that the 50 GBP account credit has already been given to Mr T, if not IISL 
must give him that account credit too.
Pay him interest on the total amount of cash received in his SIPP (minus the total 
TFC amount paid to him), at the rate of 8% simple per year from 30 March 2020 to 
14 April 2020. As explained above, this payment is to compensate Mr T for being 
unfairly deprived use of this total cash amount during this period.
Pay him interest on the total amount of TFC he received on 15 May 2020, at the rate 
of 8% simple per year from 14 April 2020 to 15 May 2020; in addition, pay him 
interest on the TFC balance amount he received on 17 September 2020, at the rate 
of 8% simple per year from 14 April 2020 to 17 September 2020. As explained 
above, these payments are to compensate Mr T for being unfairly deprived use of his 
TFC during these periods.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ts complaint and I order Interactive Investor 
Services Limited to calculate and pay him compensation as set out above, and to provide 
him with a calculation of the compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman