DRN-3144005
The complaint
Miss W complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited imposed unfair 
charges for damage to a car when she returned it after the end of the finance agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons: 
Miss W entered into an agreement in which she agreed to pay for any damage to the car 
which went beyond fair wear and tear. The agreement states: When it is time to return your 
vehicle whether that is at the end of the period of hire or earlier (when requested to do so), 
you must return the vehicle in line with the Vehicle Return Standards. MBFS provided her 
with a copy of those standards at the time she entered into the agreement.
The damages charge came to £1,289 and addressed a number of areas which MBFS said 
had been damaged beyond fair wear and tear. These came from a report was made by the 
collection agent acting on behalf of MBFS. Our investigator reviewed the report and the 
video along with the photographs and concluded that each of the damaged areas were 
chargeable. 
I have also reviewed the report and I agree that the damages fall outside the definition of fair 
wear and tear and as such are chargeable.
Miss W says the dealer told her the damages would be no more than £300. That may be the 
case, but the dealer is not responsible for carrying out the inspection and is not in a position 
to comment. It is also separate business from MBFS which is not bound by anything the 
dealer may have said.
Nor do I consider the rates charged by MBFS are unfair. I agree that a garage which is not 
an approved one may charge less, but that does not mean MBFS have to charge the same 
rate.
I understand that Miss Ws circumstances have changed and she may find it difficult to pay 
the sum due. I would remind MBFS of its obligation to treat her positively and 
sympathetically in helping her to pay the charges including the excess mileage amount 
which is not in dispute.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman