DRN-2167288
The complaint
Mr S complaint about National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) relates to the suspension of 
his account over one weekend on a number of occasions and following that, poor customer 
service. 
What happened
Mr S says he called NatWest to advise them that he intended making some high value 
purchases, one of which was to be a car. He asked them to make sure his card wouldnt be 
blocked when he did that. He said the advisor was rude, unhelpful and dismissive, but 
eventually after 45 mins on the phone he was told the payments would not be blocked. 
However, when he subsequently tried to make another purchase on his card it was blocked 
because NatWests automated systems identified a possible fraud attempt. 
Mr S said this purchase he tried to make was on eBay, and that the item he was after was 
sold to someone else meaning he had to buy it elsewhere at a greater cost. 
Mr S said he called NatWest to complain and was passed to three different advisors and 
learned that his account had been closed down. He complained that he had been kept on 
the telephone for 1hr 45 mins and promised call backs which he never received. He said that 
NatWest paid £30 into his account as compensation but he hadnt agreed to that.
NatWest said there were two occasions when transactions were blocked because those 
transactions matched a fraud trend and because they were concerned that there may have 
been ID fraud.  In both instances they said Mr S was contacted and he confirmed the 
transactions were genuine. They explained that the blocks were applied in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account and for Mr S protection.
Mr S was unhappy with NatWests final response and so approached this service to see if 
we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that NatWest hadnt done 
anything wrong with the substantive complaint and had dealt with the complaint fairly. In so 
far as the £30 compensation paid to Mr S was concerned the investigator thought that was 
fair and reasonable and reflected the distress and inconvenience at being held on the 
telephone for too long a time.
Mr S didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects 
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I dont need to 
comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I realise that Mr S wanted to speak to me before I reached my decision here. But I havent 
needed to do this as I have enough information from both him and NatWest to reach a fair 
decision impartially, in line with my role 
The accepted facts are that NatWest did block two transactions. The terms and conditions 
which govern the account do allow for NatWest to do that when they suspect there may be 
fraudulent activity. 
NatWest have said that their automated systems detected the potential for such activity and 
that is why the block was automatically applied. I appreciate Mr S says he rang to try and 
prevent that happening and I can see that he did raise the point in his call of the 7 June. 
However, he was told that it was an automated system and the advisor couldnt say whether 
the block would or wouldnt be applied. Mr S was given the option of speaking to the fraud 
team if he wished, but he declined and said hed take a chance. So, it is clear that Mr S 
knew there was the possibility that the payment might be blocked. 
I asked NatWest to provide all the calls they had from either Mr S or from his partners 
number and asked them to search during the period 5 June 2019 to 31 July 2020. I cant see 
that there is any evidence in any of the calls on 6 or 7 June to show Mr S was told the 
payments would not be blocked. Trying to protect a customer from fraud is obviously 
something banks need to do. And, having automated systems in place is entirely 
reasonable. So, Im satisfied that NatWest were correct to apply the blocks as they did 
because they were trying to protect Mr S from an ID fraud, and in so doing they acted 
properly in line with the terms and conditions. 
Mr S also says he lost out on an eBay purchase. Again, I can find no evidence to suggest 
that NatWest agreed or promised that his card would not be blocked when attempting to 
make that transaction. So, the same point applies as I have made above, in that the 
transaction was properly declined on this occasion because an ID fraud was suspected. So, 
for the same reasons as I have given above I find that NatWest acted properly. I empathise 
with Mr S in having lost the eBay purchase, but I cant lay the fault for that at NatWests 
door.
In his letter to this service Mr S said that a specific call which related to his complaint was on 
either 16 or 17 July 2019 when he called to discuss his ongoing complaint. He said he was 
promised a call back, but that it then never materialised. Ive asked NatWest to specifically 
look for a call at this time and they have confirmed that their records do not reveal any call 
from Mr S on any of the numbers he has provided. I have checked NatWests case notes 
and I too cannot see any call at that time. So, I cannot say therefore, on the evidence, that 
NatWest promised to call Mr S back from a call he made around that time. 
Mr S also complains about the length of time he was kept waiting on the telephone. NatWest 
have accepted that their service fell below their usual standards and as such have paid Mr S 
£30. I know Mr S objected to NatWest paying it directly into his bank account but as it has 
not caused him any loss nor prevented him from raising a complaint to this service I do not 
see that they have done anything wrong. I have also not been able to find any instances of 
rudeness or other unacceptable behaviour on the part of those Mr S spoke to. 
 
So, although Mr S will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say NatWest has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman