DRN-3423483
The complaint
Ms P complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited removed her from a group income 
protection policy and declined her claim. 
What happened
Both parties are familiar with the background to this complaint, so Ill only briefly describe 
what happened below.
Ms P had access to a group income protection policy through a partnership. The policy was 
designed to provide a regular benefit in the event of a member being unable to work due to 
illness or injury, and in 2019 Ms P claimed shed been unable to work because of illness. 
As part of considering her claim, Aviva asked Ms P if she was in receipt of or could be in 
entitled to receive in the future any of the following: salary, dividends, continued payment 
from her employer, early retirement pension payments, other insurance benefits (such as 
sickness and accidental policies, credit card protection waiver of premium or loan protection 
cover), or any other income. 
Ms P answered no to all of the above, but Aviva later found out that she had received and 
continued to be in receipt of £7,500 a month. So, it took steps to establish the nature of that 
money and unsatisfied with Ms Ps responses regarding it, appointed a third party to assist in 
its claim assessment.
The third party found Ms P had attempted to conceal or mask the money she had been 
receiving, and so based on its own investigation and the findings of the third party Aviva 
declined the claim. It also said Ms P had knowingly provided it with inaccurate information 
and made the decision to remove her from cover. 
Ms P complained and referred that complaint here when Aviva maintained its position.
Our investigator thought Aviva had acted reasonably and in line with the policy terms. They 
said the available evidence showed that Ms P hadnt disclosed details of the money she was 
receiving to the best of her knowledge and belief  both when making her claim and 
following subsequent questioning from Aviva and the third party.
Ms P disagreed and explained her position on the money. She said she had not at any time 
failed to disclose information to Aviva, and much of the confusion about the source of the 
money had been caused by Avivas own misunderstanding. Ms P also said Aviva should act 
in good faith, and raised concerns about the third partys actions and findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms P has set out her position at length. While a number of issues have been raised, this 
decision will only address those I consider central to the outcome of this complaint. I have 
given careful consideration to all of the submissions made by both sides before arriving at 
this decision and will not be upholding this complaint for the following reasons:
Aviva has a responsibility to consider claims both promptly and fairly, and not reject them 
unreasonably. It relied on this term in removing Ms P from the group cover:
b. We may at any time (and retrospectively where appropriate) cancel the policy in 
respect of a member, or apply different terms in line with reasonable underwriting and 
insurance practice if a member or you have at any time:
Deliberately or recklessly failed to disclose information to us, given false information to 
us or failed to tell us where any facts have changed since they were provided
At the time of claim Aviva asked Ms P a number of questions about income she might 
have been receiving, whether that be in the form of salary, dividends, sickness benefit, 
any other income etc., and Ms P told Aviva she wasnt in receipt of such. 
Ms P said she was only given the option to answer either yes or no with regards to 
those questions from Aviva on her claim form. I appreciate that, but I do note that under 
the any other income question, there was additional space provided on the form which 
specifically asked and allowed space for more detail to be provided.
In any event, Ms P told this service she couldnt have produced information about the 
money she was actually receiving at the time any sooner because of the setup of the 
partnership accounts. And that the money being received was actually drawings, not 
income or earnings. I thank Ms P for setting out her position on the money but looking at 
what happened at the time of her claim Im not persuaded it was unreasonable of Aviva 
to find that shed provided an inconsistent account about it. 
Collectively, within the questions asked of Ms P at the time of claim and the ongoing 
correspondence that followed, I think Aviva made it clear that any type of income would 
need to be considered. Our investigator has already highlighted that Ms P gave different 
explanations about the monthly £7,500 she was receiving once Aviva became aware of 
it. For example, referring to it as a sickness benefit. Saying shed been given incorrect 
information about the nature of the money by a now deceased colleague. Acknowledging 
shed been in receipt of the money for some months, but not others when she had been. 
And explaining the money was drawdowns. So, I dont think it was unreasonable of Aviva 
to remain unsatisfied with Ms Ps responses at the time and take additional steps to 
establish the nature of the money. 
Ms P is evidently unhappy with the third-party Aviva appointed to help it do that. While I 
havent seen any evidence to corroborate Ms Ps assertions surrounding the third party 
acting inappropriately, I do accept that Aviva appointed the third party to assist it in its 
own investigations and I accept that there were many questions asked of Ms P. 
However, I dont think it automatically follows that the third partys evidence should be 
discounted. I think it was reasonable of Aviva to rely on both its own efforts to establish 
the nature of the money Ms P was receiving, as well as the findings provided by the third 
party.  
The third party found itd been explained both via the original claim form and the 
subsequent correspondence from Aviva that the money Ms P was receiving, or was 
entitled to receive, needed to form part of Avivas claim assessment. It also found Ms P 
had failed to provide information about the money she was receiving at the time of the 
claim and beyond. The third party further found that the reasons given for both not 
disclosing the money and the nature of the money itself were unsatisfactory, and that Ms P had attempted to conceal or mask the money shed been receiving.  
My role isnt to decide Ms Ps claim. I appreciate the strength of feeling Ms P has about 
matters and the explanations and supporting arguments shes since provided, but given 
what happened at the time I dont think Aviva acted unreasonably in concluding that 
shed knowingly provided it with inaccurate information. Therefore, I dont think it was 
unreasonable of it to conclude that Ms Ps actions had invoked the above policy terms, 
and I too am of the opinion that Aviva did not unreasonably remove Ms P from the group 
cover. 
I realise my findings may be further disappointing for Ms P, but I will not be interfering with 
Avivas position. My decision now brings to an end what this service, in trying to resolve her 
current dispute with Aviva, can do for Ms P. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman