DRN-3328239
The complaint
Mrs A said Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd unfairly declined a claim on her pet insurance 
policy for vet and hospital treatment costs.
What happened
Mrs A took her pet to the vets where it was diagnosed with colitis. Shed taken out a pet 
insurance policy with Building Block. But itd declined her claim because the pet previously 
had symptoms of diarrhoea. Mrs A said her vet had confirmed it wasnt the same illness. So 
she wants Building Block to pay for her vet diagnosis and hospital fees.
Building Block said Mrs As claim had been declined correctly as the condition was pre-
existing. The policy didnt provide cover for any claim made during, or related to, the 14-day 
waiting period after the policy started. And it didnt cover any claim for illness related to a 
pre-existing condition or one that showed signs of existing before the policy started.
Building Block said the pet had been seen by vets in October 2020 with a five-day history of 
diarrhoea. It was seen just afterwards with signs of vomiting and diarrhoea. And a diagnosis 
of isospora, campylobacter and giardia had been reached. Mrs As pet had been diagnosed 
with colitis on 26 June 2021 after signs of diarrhoea and lethargy. 
Building Block felt the clinical signs and symptoms of the condition were present during the 
waiting period and should be considered pre-existing. So it said the claim had been correctly 
declined under the policy terms and conditions.
Mrs A wasnt satisfied with Building Blocks response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. Our investigator looked at whether Building Blocks had 
fairly relied on the pre-existing condition and waiting period exclusion. She could see the 
treatment Mrs As pet had received for diarrhoea had taken place during the first 14 days of 
the policy. But Mrs A hadnt claimed for that treatment. 
Mrs A was claiming for colitis treatment in June 2021. And our investigator didnt think 
Building Block had provided any medical evidence to show the signs of colitis were present 
during the waiting period. She accepted the symptoms were similar but thered been no 
indication the pet had been unwell between the two episodes. And the similar symptoms 
didnt mean the pet was showing signs of colitis in October 2020 when the policy started. 
Our investigator found the vets evidence persuasive. The vet had indicated the earlier 
illness was due to a bacterium and it was unlikely the conditions had the same underlying 
cause. 
So she asked Building Block to pay Mrs As claim in line with the remaining terms of the 
policy. And she said it should add 8% simple interest per year if Mrs A had already settled 
the invoice.
Building Block didnt agree with our investigator. So its asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Most pet insurance policies dont provide cover for the cost of a treatment related to 
something that existed before the policy started. And its not unusual for policy to have a 
waiting period at the start of the cover that excludes any condition that starts, or shows signs 
of starting, during the first two weeks of the policy cover.
Mrs As pet showed symptoms of diarrhoea for five days from 22 October 2020. Further 
signs of vomiting and diarrhoea were noted on 28 October and led to a diagnosis of 
isospora, campylobacter and giardia by the vet. 
Building Block says the symptoms were noted within the 14-day waiting period after the 
policy was taken out in October 2020. So it felt itd correctly declined Mrs As claim as the 
treatment was related to the symptoms identified during the waiting period.  
There are many causes of colitis, including the parasites noted by the vet in October 2020. 
But there are other possible causes for colitis including stressful events and food allergies. 
And the bacteria campylobacter, also noted by the vet in October, can cause diarrhoea 
symptoms without necessarily indicating an underlying colitis condition.
Where Building Block has relied on the exclusion clause for signs or symptoms of a pre-
existing condition to decline Mrs As claim, Id expect it to show it was entitled to do so. But 
Ive not seen any evidence from Building Block to show a link between the diarrhoea 
episodes in October and the diagnosis of colitis the following year. 
Mrs A has provided a letter from her vet explaining the original diarrhoea was due to 
infectious agents that caused gastrointestinal problems. And the vet said it was highly 
unlikely the treatment claimed for in June 2021 had the same underlying cause. Although the 
pet was treated for similar symptoms on both occasions it doesnt necessarily follow that the 
October symptoms were the cause of the condition claimed for in June the following year.  
In the absence of any other evidence I think its fair and reasonable to rely on the vets 
expert opinion that the two treatments were unrelated. It follows that I dont think Building 
Block has acted fairly in declining Mrs As claim due to it being related to a pre-existing 
condition. 
I wouldnt expect Building Block to cover the costs of the initial treatment in October 2020. It 
was within the 14-day waiting period after the policy started. And Ive not seen anything to 
suggest Mrs A has asked the insurer to do so. 
But I do think Building Block unfairly declined Mrs As claim for colitis treatment in June 
2021. There are a number of possible causes for colitis. The vet believed the colitis was 
unrelated to the earlier treatment for diarrhoea.. And Building Blocks hasnt done enough to 
persuade me to disregard the vets expert opinion.
Putting things right
It follows that I dont think Building Block has acted fairly and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the pet insurance policy in declining Mrs As claim. To put things right Building 
Block should pay Mrs As claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy. And if Mrs A 
has already settled the vets invoice it should add 8% simple interest per year from the date 
Mrs A paid her vet until the date Building Block refunds her.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Building Insurance PCC Ltd to follow 
the steps Ive outlined in putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman