DRN-3860448
The complaint
Mr S complains about the advice given by LEBC Group Limited to transfer the benefits from 
his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a guaranteed annuity. He says the 
advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr S was a deferred member of his former employers DB scheme. In 2018, the scheme 
sent Mr S a statement of pension benefits along with a flexible retirement offer (FRO). Part 
of the FRO included an enhanced cash equivalent transfer value (CETV). The scheme 
trustees appointed, and paid for, LEBC to provide advice to scheme members about the 
suitability of transferring their defined benefit pension to a defined contribution arrangement. 
Mr S took up LEBCs offer of advice and a fact-find was completed in September 2018 in 
order to gather information about Mr Ss circumstances and objectives. LEBC noted the 
following on the fact-find:
Mr S was aged 57 and in a civil partnership. His partner was aged 25. 
Mr S lived overseas and was self-employed with an annual income of around 
£36,000. 
Mr S owned a property in the UK worth approximately £800,000 which had an 
outstanding mortgage of £430,000 and monthly repayments of £1,700; Mr S intended 
to dispose of the property.
That Mr S intended to be mortgage free by March 2019 if not sooner. 
He owned further properties overseas valued at approximately £200,000 from which 
he derived his income.
Mr S had cash savings of £5,000 and no other pension provision.
No state pension provision was noted and no details of any outgoings were noted.
That Mr S would be investing £200,000 in property overseas and was in the process 
of opening a hotel which he expected to do well. Mr S was also noted as having a 
50% share in an existing hotel business from which he derived only minimal income 
as 90% of its profits were re-invested. 
Mr S wanted to draw a tax-free lump sum and to take an immediate income from his 
pension to be paid monthly. 
The fact-find also included a section about attitude to risk (ATR) where Mr S was given five 
options ranging from conservative to aggressive from which he had to select the one that 
most applied to himself; Mr S ticked the box to say he had an aggressive ATR (defined as 
meaning he was prepared to take significant investment risk with his retirement income). 
However, in its suitability report, LEBC noted that as the DB scheme was Mr Ss only 
pension, he had a limited capacity for loss. 
On 19 September 2018, LEBC issued Mr S with its suitability report where it set out the three 
options Mr S had under the FRO. These were:
To do nothing and take his benefits from the DB scheme at a point in the future;
To take a pension from the DB scheme now; or
To purchase a lifetime annuity.
Options one and two were discounted in favour of option three and LEBC advised Mr S to 
transfer his DB scheme benefits to an annuity with a provider Ill call C. LEBC set out 
various annuity options for Mr S but recommended that he take a single life level annuity 
paying him £4,854 gross per year monthly in advance with no dependents pension; a 20-
year guarantee period was included and Mr S would receive £36,604 in tax-free cash 
(TFC). The suitability report said the reason for this recommendation was so that Mr S 
could draw TFC to help with his planned overseas property construction. It also said that 
whilst he was able to meet his outgoings and the cost of the project (£220,000), which was 
to be funded by selling his UK property, he preferred to have an additional sum available to 
him.
Mr S accepted LEBCs recommendation. The CETV of £146,416 from the DB scheme was 
received by C, the TFC was paid to Mr S and the guaranteed annuity was set up shortly 
after. No adviser fee was charged but there was an initial product charge of £150 made 
against the transferred fund. 
In August 2021 Mr S, through his representative, complained to LEBC that hed been given 
negligent advice to transfer his DB scheme benefits and that the advice was unsuitable for 
someone who had no investment experience and a low ATR. Mr Ss representative said hed 
been induced to transfer his DB scheme benefits by LEBC as it had promised the value of 
his pension fund would grow. Finally, Mr Ss representative said he had suffered a financial 
loss of £17,000. 
LEBC looked into Mr Ss complaint and issued its final response letter on 22 September 
2021. LEBC said that it had recommended the transfer so that Mr S could benefit from the 
enhanced CETV his former employer was offering as part of the FRO, as well as a larger 
annual income and more TFC. LEBC said that the advice it had given Mr S was in his best 
interests so it was unable to uphold his complaint. 
Unhappy with the outcome of his complaint to LEBC, Mr S complained to this service. Our 
Investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint and recommended it was upheld. He thought that 
there was no immediate need for Mr S to have the TFC nor did he think he needed it in order 
to achieve his objective. And our Investigator thought that Mr S didnt need the additional 
income from the annuity at that point in time. Our Investigator also thought that Mr S may not 
have fully understood the value of the dependents pension provided by the DB scheme.
LEBC disagreed with our Investigators findings but its response provided no new comments 
or evidence. Our Investigator thought about what LEBC had said in response to his findings 
but wasnt persuaded to change his mind. 
The complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of LEBCs actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, LEBC should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ss 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
As required by the regulator, LEBC carried out a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report in 
September 2018 showing how much Mr Ss fund would need to grow by each year (the 
critical yield) in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme at ages 59 and 60 (the 
schemes normal retirement date (NRD)). Whilst I note that LEBC concluded that the 
required returns to match Mr Ss DB scheme were likely unachievable, LEBCs advice and 
recommendation in this case was not based on Mr S retiring at 60 (or 59) and investing his 
pension monies in the meantime in the belief that he would be better off by transferring. 
Rather LEBCs advice was based on addressing what it considered was Mr Ss immediate 
need for both income and a cash lump sum (at age 57). So while Im satisfied this
analysis was clearly explained to Mr S in the suitability report, I dont think its necessary in 
this case for me to consider in detail the financial viability of the transfer. What I need to 
consider in this case are the other reasons LEBC believes mean the transfer was both 
suitable and in Mr Ss best interests.
Flexibility and income needs
It seems to me that the sole reason LEBC recommended Mr S transfer his DB scheme for a 
guaranteed annuity and TFC, despite its conclusion that the required returns to match his 
DB scheme were likely unachievable, was to have the flexibility to access a tax-free cash 
lump sum to help with his planned overseas property construction. Additionally LEBC said 
that whilst he was able to meet his outgoings and the cost of the project (£220,000) by 
selling his UK property, he preferred to have an additional sum available to him.But Im not persuaded that there was a genuine need for Mr S to access his TFC to fund his 
overseas property project. And I note that LEBC acknowledged this was the case too as it 
noted that the TFC wasnt needed to fund the project because as it was being funded from 
the sale of Mr Ss UK property in which there was equity of £370,000. As the construction 
costs were estimated to be £220,000 its clear to me that Mr S would have sufficient funds 
available after the sale of Mr Ss UK property to be able to fund his project without the need 
to transfer his DB scheme. And Ive seen no evidence for why Mr S genuinely needed to 
have an additional sum available to him either; so I think that Mr S could have left his DB 
scheme where it was.
Mr S might have been tempted to access cash from his pension, particularly as the amount 
of cash available had been enhanced, but Ive seen no evidence that he had a genuine need 
to do so. It is clear to me from the both the fact-find and suitability report that LEBC 
established there was no immediate need at all to access any TFC. But despite this, option 1 
 retaining the DB scheme and taking benefits at some future point  was specifically 
rejected on the grounds Mr S required immediate access to his pension in order to purchase 
an additional overseas property when, in fact, that was not the case. 
Nor can I see that Mr S needed the additional income that the annuity was to provide. The 
suitability report notes that Mr S had an annual income of £36,000 and annual core 
outgoings of £10,000 leaving you with a surplus of approximately £26,000 pa gross which 
you are currently investing into your business  It is unclear, because Mr Ss actual 
outgoings arent documented, if there was flexibility around the investment of the surplus 
income but the very definition of surplus is something that is left over. That being the case it 
is reasonable to assume Mr S had some discretion has to how to utilise the amount of 
income he had left over each year and that consequently he didnt need more surplus 
income in the form of an annuity. 
I can see too that the only outgoing mentioned on the fact-find is Mr Ss monthly mortgage 
payment at £1,700. Annually that equates to £20,400 but as Mr S was resident overseas it is 
possible that his UK property was tenanted and that the mortgage was therefore covered. 
This is likely given that a mortgage is likely classed as core expenditure and Mr Ss 
mortgage payments clearly arent reflected in his documented annual core expenditure. 
Consequently it seems to me that Mr S had more than sufficient income from which he could 
meet his outgoings so he had no need for the additional income provided by the annuity at 
that point; he could have waited less than three years until his NRD (or longer, until he was 
ready to retire) to draw his benefits from his DB scheme. Had he done so he was forecast to 
receive an annual pension of £6,771 a proportion of which would have increased by up to 
3% each year from the age of 65. Alternatively he would have been able to receive an 
annual pension of £4,778 (a proportion of which would also have increased by up to 3% per 
year from age 65) and TFC of £31,852. And if Mr S didnt want to retire at 60  and there is 
no evidence that he did  then both his pension and the TFC under this DB scheme would 
have been greater the longer he deferred taking his benefits. But I cant see that LEBC 
explained that to Mr S or interrogated in any way what his retirement plans were.
Rather LEBC recommended that Mr S transfer his DB scheme and take an annuity with C on 
the basis that it would provide greater benefits than if he were to take immediate benefits 
from the scheme  specifically a higher level of TFC (£36,604 as opposed to £27,960). But 
as Ive said above, there was no need immediate need for Mr S to access any cash. And 
whilst the income provided by the annuity was marginally higher than that which would have 
been paid by the scheme at NRD (had TFC also been taken) the fact remains that the 
annuity and the DB scheme werent like for like because the latter included dependents 
death benefits whereas the former didnt. In fact, only one of the numerous annuity quotes included in the suitability report included 
provision for a dependents pension  that was for a level annuity, payable monthly in 
advance with a 70% spouses pension and a five-year guarantee period. But in this quote 
the income annual income was £3,403.32 together with TFC of £27,965.46. Whilst the 
spouses pension in this annuity is a greater percentage than that provided under the DB 
scheme, the pension payable is considerably lower than it would have been had Mr S taken 
his benefits at age 57 from the scheme  there he would have received a pension of £4,194 
each year and TFC of almost the same amount at £27,960. So it is reasonable to assume 
that even had LEBC obtained an annuity quote which included a 50% spouses pension (to 
more closely mirror the benefits provided by the scheme being given) the pension payable 
would likely have still been less than that available under the DB scheme and even then, it 
was only guaranteed to pay that income for a limited period whereas part of any DB scheme 
pension was subject to index linked increases from the age of 65. 
So Im unable to agree with LEBC that the transfer was in Mr Ss best interests. 
In addition, LEBCs recommendation provided Mr S with a potentially taxable income of 
£4,854 that he didnt appear to need. And the pension of £4,854 he received was only 
marginally higher than what he would have received had he remained in the scheme and 
taken his pension at NRD and, as Ive said above, had he chosen to retire after NRD then it 
was likely his DB scheme pension would have increased yet further. Nor can I ignore that 
the guaranteed annuity was fixed for 20 years  namely that it wouldnt increase over time 
(and could, in fact, decrease after the expiration of the guarantee period). And whilst the DB 
scheme pension was also fixed to a certain degree a significant proportion of it was subject 
to up to a 3% annual increase from the age of 65. So LEBC advised Mr S to exchange a 
partially index linked pension for one that would never increase. 
Ive seen no evidence that LEBC meaningfully explored Mr Ss retirement objectives with 
him or determined what income he thought he would require in retirement. If LEBC had 
acted in Mr Ss best interests it should have established when he wanted to retire and what 
his retirement income needs and plans were. Whilst Mr S was noted as still working, the 
exact nature of his employment and income stream was unclear. Consequently it isnt known 
whether the income he was receiving at the time of the advice would continue should he 
cease being active in his business. 
So whilst I note the section on the fact-find which asks, What does retirement look like to 
you, the answers given by Mr S werent interrogated by LEBC. If LEBC had had full regard 
to Mr Ss information and communication needs I think it should have explored how his 
retirement objectives were to be funded once he had retired and also what was important to 
him. Ascertaining such information is key to the advice being provided and goes to show 
LEBC sufficiently knew its customer. But theres no evidence that it sought to obtain this 
information.
In summary, Ive seen no evidence that Mr S needed to transfer his guaranteed DB benefits 
to achieve his sole objective of funding his overseas property project or that he immediately 
needed the additional income that the guaranteed annuity would provide. LEBC should also 
have explained to Mr S how his objective could be achieved without transferring and giving 
up his scheme benefits. Unfortunately this option wasnt explored by LEBC with Mr S and 
without any realistic insight into what Mr Ss actual retirement needs were Im unable to 
agree with LEBC that the transfer was in his best interests. Im satisfied that LEBC didnt 
provide Mr S with suitable advice for his circumstances and that he could have achieved his 
objective by using the proceeds from the sale of his UK property without having to give up 
his guaranteed DB scheme benefits. 
Death benefitsThere is some inconsistency around the information gathered by LEBC about Mr Ss view of 
death benefits. In one section of the fact-find he indicates he would like his partner to benefit 
from his pension but elsewhere he indicates he has provided for his partner in other ways. I 
can see too that Mr S ranked death benefits on the fact-find as his lowest priority. And the 
guaranteed annuity that was set up was on a single life basis so included no provision for a 
dependents pension. 
I think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed by LEBC. 
Mr S had a partner and under the DB scheme the trustees had the discretion to pay a co-
habiting dependent a pension. And in the event of Mr Ss death before he took his DB 
scheme benefits his beneficiaries would receive a lump sum equivalent to five times his 
deferred pension. And if Mr S had taken his scheme benefits and passed away before five 
full years had been paid to him then the balance would have been payable to his 
beneficiaries. These benefits would have been useful to Mr Ss partner if he predeceased 
him.
I think that LEBC should have highlighted the death benefits available under the DB scheme 
to Mr S regardless of any preconceived views he had about them. Mr Ss partner was far 
younger than him so the likelihood was that he would predecease him. Given the age 
difference between them any dependents pension granted by the trustees would be in 
payment for a long period, providing Mr Ss partner with a guaranteed income for life which 
would have likely been of great value to him. So I dont think LEBC made the value of this 
benefit clear enough to Mr S or that he fully understood the value of the dependents pension 
and lump sum death benefits under his DB scheme.
Summary
I dont doubt that the attractiveness of the enhanced transfer value offered by the DB 
scheme and opportunity to obtain tax-free cash and an additional income would have 
sounded like attractive features to Mr S. But LEBC wasnt there to just transact what Mr S 
might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr S 
needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr S was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr S was very likely to obtain 
lower overall retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons 
which would justify a transfer and outweigh this.  Mr S shouldnt have been advised to 
transfer out of the scheme on the basis he needed the money to fund an overseas property 
project for which he already had sufficient funds. Nor can I see that accessing TFC and an 
income he didnt yet need was worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB 
scheme for.
So, I think LEBC shouldve advised Mr S to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr S would've gone ahead anyway, against LEBCs 
advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr S wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against LEBCs advice. I say this because Mr S was an 
inexperienced investor and this pension was his only retirement provision. So, if LEBC had 
provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it 
wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr S desire to access the enhanced transfer value and the TFC was 
so great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If LEBC had explained that Mr S could meet his objective without risking his guaranteed 
pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr Ss objective was 
such a priority for him that he would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
And if LEBC had explained to Mr S that he was always unlikely to exceed the guaranteed 
benefits available to him by transferring, that he shouldnt be prioritising obtaining TFC he 
didnt need over retirement benefits and that his objective could be met by other means I 
think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr S would have insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme. 
In light of the above, I think LEBC should compensate Mr S for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
I agree with our Investigator that Mr S will have been caused some distress and 
inconvenience by LEBCs unsuitable advice so I think that LEBC should pay him 
compensation of £250 in recognition of any trouble and upset it has caused him. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the LEBC to put Mr S, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr S would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
LEBC must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mr S has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 60, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Ss acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, LEBC should:
calculate and offer Mr S redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr S before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr S receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr S accepts LEBCs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr S for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ss end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr S as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, LEBC may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr S 
likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction 
of 15%overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
LEBC should also pay Mr S compensation of £250 for the distress and inconvenience its 
unsuitable advice caused him. 
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require LEBC Group Limited to 
pay Mr S the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
LEBC Group Limited pays Mr S the balance.
If Mr S accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on LEBC Group Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr S can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman