DRN-3323402
The complaint
Mr F complained that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
irresponsibly gave him a loan which was unaffordable for him.
What happened
This complaint is about a loan MoneyBoat provided to Mr F as follows:
Date loan 
takenDate repaidWeekly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountTypical 
instalment 
amount
9.01.20 29.05.20 6 £200 £39.54
Our adjudicator didnt think it was unfair for MoneyBoat to have provided this loan to Mr F 
and so he didnt uphold this complaint.
Mr F disagreed with our adjudicator. He mainly said that MoneyBoat should have been 
aware from its credit checks that he had a large number of high interest short-term loans 
already reported on his credit file and so realised that it would be irresponsible to provide this 
loan.
Mr F asked an ombudsman to review his complaint so it came to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr F 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. 
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr F could sustainably repay this loan  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
So it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to do so 
without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint. 
Before lending to Mr F, MoneyBoat asked him for details of his income and normal 
expenditure. And MoneyBoat carried out checks on Mr Fs credit file.
So I think that MoneyBoat should reasonably have seen from its affordability calculations 
and looking at the information revealed on the credit report it acquired that this loan was 
unlikely to be sustainable and it shouldnt have provided it. 
I say this because MoneyBoats records show it relied on information showing that Mr Fs 
income was £2,200. It worked out that after paying for his housing costs, food and transport, 
plus other outgoings and allowing for Mr F needing to spend around £300 on his existing 
credit commitments, he should still have £1,100 spare cash left. So it felt that the monthly 
repayments for this loan should be comfortably affordable for him.
But the monthly repayments needed to repay existing debts shown on the credit report 
MoneyBoat acquired when Mr F applied for this loan amounted to significantly more than 
£1,100 per month. So MoneyBoat shouldve realised that he would need to spend more than 
the amount of disposable income it had calculated he had available to spend when working 
out its affordability assessment  which was unlikely to be sustainable. 
And I think there are further reasons why MoneyBoat shouldnt have provided this loan to 
Mr F. MoneyBoat should also have realised that the credit history it saw on its credit checks 
suggested that Mr F was stuck in a cycle of debt  repeatedly borrowing to repay other 
loans. 
Although this wasnt a large loan and the repayments didnt appear to be substantial, 
MoneyBoat could see that Mr F had taken a £50 loan just two months earlier and he hadnt 
yet repaid it  to my mind, a clear warning sign to MoneyBoat that making the loan 
repayments for this loan would likely be problematic for Mr F. Especially bearing in mind 
extent of his borrowing and the fact that he also had credit cards at or over limit and they 
looked like they had been stuck at that level for many months. None of this information reflected what MoneyBoat understood Mr Fs financial situation to 
be according to its affordability calculations but instead indicated hallmarks of someone 
struggling to manage serious financial difficulty. 
To sum up, this all makes me think that MoneyBoat, as a responsible lender, should have 
been aware that Mr F was unlikely to be able to make the monthly repayments in a way that 
would be sustainably affordable and so MoneyBoat shouldnt have provided this loan to 
Mr F. 
In the event, Mr F ran into payment problems by the time his fifth repayment was due and he 
ultimately incurred extra interest and charges before he was able to repay the loan, later 
than the scheduled repayment date. I think that was a reasonably foreseeable outcome 
given the information MoneyBoat had gathered. And the fact alone that Mr F managed to 
repay the loan doesnt mean that he was able to do so in a sustainable manner. For these 
reasons, Im planning on upholding Mr Fs complaint about this loan and telling MoneyBoat 
to take the following steps.
  
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr F told me he had nothing further to add. 
I have heard nothing further from MoneyBoat and the deadline for responses has now 
passed so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive taken this into 
account in deciding this complaint. 
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Mr F for responding to my provisional decision. Given that Ive not received any further 
evidence or comment that changes my mind about this complaint, I confirm the conclusions 
I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr F, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. For 
example, having been declined this lending Mr F may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. 
If this wasnt a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or 
relative  assuming that was even possible. Or, he may have decided to approach a third-
party lender with the same application, or indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less 
borrowing). But even if he had done that, the information that would have been available to 
such a lender and how they would (or ought to have) treated an application which may or 
may not have been the same is now impossible to reconstruct accurately. From what Ive 
seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance 
that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr F in a compliant way at this time. Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr F would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr F to repay the principal amount that he borrowed 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has had to pay interest and charges on a 
loan that shouldnt have been provided to him.
If MoneyBoat sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. Otherwise, MoneyBoat should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve 
the results outlined below and do the following:
A add together the total of the repayments made by Mr F towards interest, fees and 
charges on this loan, not including anything already refunded
B calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr F which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr F originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled
C refund the amounts calculated in A and B to Mr F
D whilst its fair that Mr Fs credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, its 
unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded about a 
loan that was unfairly provided. So MoneyBoat should remove any negative 
information recorded on Mr Fs credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Fs complaint and direct Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as 
MoneyBoat.co.uk to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman