DRN-3794565
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) gave her unsuitable investment advice.
What happened
Mrs F sought investment advice from an adviser on behalf of Halifax in 2006. She did so 
after she had inherited a sum of money.
Acting on the advisers recommendation, Mrs F invested a lump sum of £36,000 in two 
investment plans. Mrs F was looking to invest as she wanted her funds to have greater 
potential for growth compared to conventional deposit-based savings accounts. Mrs F was 
recommended by Halifax to invest £10,000 in a Personal Investment Plan (PIP) which 
included an element of life cover, and £26,000 in a Guaranteed Investment Plan (GIP). 
Mrs F felt that the PIP was not suitable for her. She says this because she didnt think 
she needed life insurance due to her circumstances at the time. She wanted to be 
directly invested in the stock market and she wanted her investment to be tax efficient. 
She says her PIP is subject to income tax if she withdraws the capital. She says she 
doesnt know why she wasnt recommended a stocks and shares ISA.  
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in November 2022. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from 
the decision below. I said;
Halifax has upheld Mrs Fs complaint about her PIP and has agreed it didnt give advice that 
was suitable. It has said its sorry it didnt give better advice when Mrs F agreed to take out 
the PIP. But Halifax considers the PIP wasnt an appropriate recommendation for Mrs F as it 
was too high risk based on her circumstances at the time. Mrs F on the other hand has not 
complained about the amount of risk she took or was prepared to take at that time.
Mrs Fs complaint is about the tax efficiency of the investment she was recommended. Mrs F 
says she doesnt know why she was recommended a PIP when she could have been 
recommended a stocks and shares ISA. She says she is now potentially left with a tax 
liability that she shouldnt have if she was given suitable advice in the first place. 
I can see that both parties are talking about different aspects of the advice that was given to 
Mrs F at the time. Halifax has agreed that its advice wasnt suitable but for different reasons 
to the one that Mrs F has given. Halifax thinks it shouldnt have recommended an investment 
that had so much risk attached to it. But Mrs F says she wanted to take on that risk, and this 
is not her complaint. So, I have looked into Mrs Fs complaint, that she shouldve been 
recommended a stocks and shares ISA due to her circumstances at the time.
Mrs F was single at the time and had no dependants. She has told our service that she 
doesnt know why she was recommended an investment with a life insurance element 
attached to it rather than an investment that was more tax efficient. 
I acknowledge Mrs Fs comments about this. But I have read through the documentation 
provided by the parties including the documentation that was produced at the time by 
Halifax. This includes the fact find document and a suitability letter. I can see within the 
suitability letter that the adviser from Halifax says my recommendation would usually 
include an ISA for tax efficiency, however you advised me that you wish to have a guarantee 
of repayment of capital on death. I can also see in the fact find the adviser has put: is  the 
guarantee of a return of capital in the event of death important to the customer? and the 
answer put to this question is yes. Looking at what has been put down by the adviser in 
these documents, suggests to me, on balance, that a conversation was had about life 
insurance by the parties, and it was agreed that Mrs F required it. On the back of this, the 
adviser then recommended the PIP as it met Mrs Fs requirement for growth and provided 
an element of life insurance also. 
By having the life insurance cover as part of the plan, Halifax were able to provide an 
investment that had some tax efficiency as well, providing the option of Mrs F being able to 
withdraw 5% a year tax free. In addition, I am mindful that taxation isnt the only 
consideration when recommending a suitable investment product.
So, although, I cant be sure what was discussed by the parties in the meetings, the 
documentation that I have seen persuades me that life assurance was discussed, and Mrs F 
agreed that having this to ensure a guarantee of return of capital on death would be useful. 
This then became part of the fact find and ultimately led to the adviser providing his 
recommendations that included the PIP rather than an ISA. Something that the adviser 
summarised in the suitability letter.
Mrs F has also said she thought she was directly invested in the stock market and has now 
found out she isnt. But I can see from the breakdown of assets that the PIP utilised 
collective investments where the underlying assets were predominantly equities. The PIP 
was recommended by the adviser because of Mrs Fs attitude to risk at the time and this is 
reflected in the breakdown of assets that it was invested in. These assets exposed the sum 
invested to a risk that Mrs F has said all along she wanted to take to achieve growth. 
In conclusion, based on what I have seen, I dont think Halifaxs recommendations were 
unsuitable for Mrs F due to the reasons that she has complained about, this being about 
having an investment that has a life insurance element to it and one that isnt tax efficient. I 
can see within the fact find, that the adviser recorded down that having life insurance to 
cover the capital invested was important to Mrs F at that time, and this is one of the reasons 
why he advised her to have the PIP. 
Halifax has since concluded that it should have recommended a more cautious fund. My 
understanding from her complaint is that Mrs F wanted to invest in equities, and Halifaxs 
recommendation ensured that she did. However, if her funds had been invested more 
cautiously, Halifaxs calculations show that the sum invested would now be worth less than 
is actually the case.
Mrs Fs complaint was in reality about the tax efficiency of her investment. But as I have 
concluded above, I dont think Halifax did anything wrong here, for the reasons I have given.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Halifax responded and was in agreement with my findings in the 
provisional decision. Mrs F responded and did not agree. She said she is very 
disappointed with the outcome. She says she doesnt recall any conversations about 
ISAs and tax efficiency. She says the scheme is so complicated that nobody can tell her 
what her tax liability is, if she chooses to move her investment out of the scheme. She thinks Halifax should pay the cost of an independent financial adviser, so she can 
understand this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mrs Fs points made within its submission and response to my provisional 
decision. I cannot be sure what was discussed when Mrs F met an adviser representing 
Halifax, but I made my finding on the balance of probabilities and based on the 
documentation I had in front of me. This being the fact find document where Halifax has 
recorded down that a guarantee of return of capital was important to Mrs F. On balance, 
based on what I had in front of me, I think this would have been a consideration when the 
parties discussed the PIP. 
I havent concluded that Halifax did anything wrong with regards to Mrs Fs complaint, so 
with that in mind, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask it to pay for an IFA to 
give Mrs F advice on her investment, on this occasion. Halifax has provided an 
explanation as to how the PIP works and it is up to Mrs F now to decide what to do with 
her investment and any advice, she may feel she needs. 
After reading both parties submissions, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings 
within my provisional decision. With that being the case, I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman