DRN-3648600
The complaint
Mr T complains about his home emergency policy with British Gas Insurance Limited (British 
Gas). The complaint is about the time taken to deal with a leak and additional damage. 
References to British Gas in this decision include their agents who provide services under 
the policy.
This decision covers events after an earlier complaint by Mr T to British Gas and then to this 
service. The earlier complaint was the subject of a separate resolution by this service, with 
an amount of compensation (£300) agreed between Mr T and British Gas. This decision 
therefore covers events from British Gass response to the earlier complaint in June 2021.
What happened
The events concerning the complaint are well-known to both parties, so Ill only summarise 
them here. 
In April 2021 there was a loss of pressure in the boiler at Mr Ts property. Mr T contacted 
British Gas who sent engineers to find the leak and fix it. However, there were delays and 
missed appointments and the engineers couldnt diagnose the cause of the loss of pressure. 
After a series of appointments which didnt diagnose the cause of the fault, the issue was 
finally traced in March 2022 to a leak in pipework. The location of the pipework meant having 
to dig under the flooring in the lounge of Mr Ts property and replace a section of pipework.
Unhappy at the length of time taken before the issue was finally diagnosed and fixed, as well 
as the impact of having an inconsistently operating heating system, Mr T complained to 
British Gas. He was also unhappy at the damage caused by having to dig up the flooring to 
fix the leaking pipe and to a radiator. 
Having previously issued a final response in June 2021, British Gas issued a second final 
response (following the leak finally being detected and fixed) in June 2022, covering the 
issues between July 2021 and March 2022. In the response they noted that to fix the leak, it 
was necessary to dig up the floor of Mr Ts property as the pipework was hidden underneath. 
While they reinstated the flooring and made good the access theyd had to make. British Gas 
said the terms of the policy meant they wouldnt cover additional costs for redecoration and 
new flooring. However, British Gas accepted the issue and its eventual resolution should 
have been diagnosed earlier. In recognition of this, British Gas offered £350 as a good will 
gesture for the time taken to diagnose and fix the issue and for the frustration caused to Mr 
T. British Gas also agreed to cover the cost of a replacement radiator (£412.50) that was 
needed as a result of the issues with the leak and pressure failures.
Mr T wasnt happy with British Gass offer, so made a further complaint to this 
service. The main part of his complaint was about the length of time taken to 
diagnose and fix the issue, leaving him with an inconsistently operating heating (and 
hot water) system for many months, including over the winter period. He also said 
damage had been caused to his property from the time taken and the fixing of the 
leak, so he wanted British Gas to consider the cost of repairs and redecoration (he 
said hed been told by British Gas theyd put aside £1,000 for this).  
Our investigator upheld Mr Ts complaint. He thought British Gas should pay Mr T 
£800 for the nine months of distress and inconvenience caused to Mr T. This 
reflected Mr T having been impacted by missed appointments, delays and intermittent 
heating and hot water throughout the period. On the issue of the replacement 
radiator, the investigator noted British Gas had agreed to reimburse the cost. The 
investigator didnt consider any other issues of additional cost, as Mr T hadnt 
provided evidence to support them.
British Gas disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. They thought the £350 compensation theyd offered considered the 
overall impact of what had happened on Mr T and didnt believe a further £450 (as the 
investigator thought) was justified.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here to decide whether British Gas has acted fairly towards Mr T.
While there are distinct issues in Mr Ts complaint, the overall issue is the time it took for 
British Gas to diagnose the issue and to fix it. In total, from when it was first reported by Mr T 
in April 2021, to when it was resolved in March 2022, it was just under a year. While this 
decision doesnt cover the original complaint, looking at issues up to British Gass first final 
response in June 2021, it does cover the period from then until the issue was finally 
resolved. Which would be some nine months, for what turned out to be a leaking pipe under 
the lounge floor. The work records provided by British Gas indicate four visits over the 
course of the period (July 2021, September 2021, January 2022 and then finally in March 
2022, when the issue was fixed). As well as the number of visits, theres also the gaps 
between them, which Ive noted British Gas have accepted were too long. British Gas also 
accept they should have diagnosed the issue much sooner than they did (from what Ive 
seen, it seems Mr T identified the eventual source of the problem).
Thinking about the impact on Mr T, having an inconsistently operating heating system over a 
nine-month period would mean a significant impact over an extended period. Particularly as 
that period included the colder months of the year. Based on this, Ive thought about what 
would be reasonable compensation for the inconvenience caused to Mr T. Ive also had 
regard to the published information from this service about how we assess levels of 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. In this case, I think the impact is significant, 
over an extended period of some nine months, which indicates an award in the range we 
would consider appropriate for significant disruption. (between £750 and £1,500). I think an 
award at the lower end of the range would be appropriate, so Ive concluded £800 would be 
reasonable. So, I dont agree with British Gass offer of £350 being sufficient.
While Ive reached this conclusion on the central issue of compensation for inconvenience. 
Ive also considered the other issues raised by Mr T. On his point about being told British 
Gas had put aside £1,000 for the cost of repair and redecoration, British Gas arent sure 
what this may mean. They point to the terms and conditions of the policy regarding cover for 
trace and access. Under the General Conditions section of the policy theres a heading 
Getting access and making good which states:
In addition to the costs of parts and labourcover up to £1,000 including VAT for 
getting access and making goodWe wont be responsible for repairing any pre-existing damage, nor will we replace or 
restore the original surface or coverings, for example, tiles, floor coverings, 
decoration, grass or plants.
Thinking about this, it could be Mr T was thinking about the £1,000 limit for trace and access 
costs as set out above. But the above terms and conditions make it clear the policy doesnt 
cover replacing or restoring the original floor coverings. Similarly with redecoration, which 
again the policy wouldnt cover. So, Ive concluded British Gas dont need to do anything 
more in this regard.
On the point about the replacement radiator, I note British Gas have said they will reimburse 
the cost (£412.50) under the terms and conditions of the policy. I think thats fair and 
reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint in part. I 
require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr T £800 for distress and inconvenience.
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell them Mr T accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman