DRN-2114742
The complaint
Mr R complains that Aviva Health UK Limited charged him twice for a policy excess under a 
private medical insurance claim.
What happened
Mr R holds a private medical insurance policy for him and his son. A policy excess of £500 is 
payable for each person, every policy year.
In September 2019 Mr R made a claim under the policy for his son. The claim was 
authorised and a policy excess paid. However, as the claim ran over into the following policy 
year, a further excess was charged. Mr R is unhappy about this, as he thinks the excess 
should only apply once for the same course of treatment. He says it wasnt made clear to 
him that this would happen when the policy was taken out.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Aviva had made Mr 
R aware of how the excess worked when the policy was taken out, and when he made the 
claim. 
Mr R didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says:
If you have chosen an excess, we will pay for treatment covered by the policy, minus the 
amount of the excess. 
The excess is applied to each member, each policy year. This means that if a claim or 
course of treatment continues from one policy year to the next, the excess will apply again.
For example, if you have a £5,000 excess and your treatment in a policy year costs £10,000, 
you will pay the first £5,000 and we will pay the rest. If the treatment carries on into the next 
policy year, another excess will apply, so you will again pay the first £5,000 of treatment 
received in that policy year.

The excess is applied on the date treatment takes place and not the date we pay the bill.
As Mr Rs sons treatment span across two policy years, Aviva acted in accordance with the 
policy terms by charging the excess twice. 
I think the fact that the excess applies each policy year is important information that should 
be made clear to a consumer before a policy is sold. Ive therefore listened to the phone call 
that took place between Mr R and Aviva when the policy was taken out. 
Having done so, Im satisfied that Aviva told Mr R that the policy excess would apply per 
person, per policy year. Mr R understood this and agreed to the excess. I accept Mr Rs 
point that Aviva didnt explain if a claim went across two policy years, then the excess would 
be charged twice. However, its fairly unusual for this to happen, so I wouldnt have 
necessarily expected Aviva to go into this level of detail when the policy was sold  though I 
would expect Aviva to advise a consumer of this if a claim is made shortly before the 
renewal date. 
Mr R thinks Aviva should have reminded him how the excess worked at each renewal. Ive 
checked the renewal documents, and I see the covering letter confirmed there was a £500 
excess. Aviva also included a copy of the policy terms, which explained how the excess 
worked. I think this was sufficient, and I wouldnt have expected Aviva to have included more 
detail about the excess in the covering letter. Though even if it did, given that Mr R was 
happy to take out an excess when the policy was sold after hed been told it applied per 
person, per policy year - it seems unlikely that he would have chosen not to renew the policy 
if hed been specifically reminded of this at renewal.
Ive also listened to the two calls that took place between Mr R and Aviva when the claim 
was made. 
During the first call, Aviva reminded Mr R that the £500 excess would apply per person, per 
policy year and not per claim. Aviva also pointed out that the renewal date was quite close. 
Mr R understood.
During the second call, Aviva again reminded Mr R that the policy was coming up for 
renewal, and explained that if his sons treatment started in the current policy year and then 
carried on into the next policy year, the excess would be applied twice.
Given that the policy was due to renew a few months after Mr R asked Aviva to authorise 
treatment, I think it was appropriate for Aviva to advise Mr R at this time that the excess 
would be applied twice if the treatment span across the two policy years.
Whilst I can understand Mr Rs frustration that he needed to pay the excess twice, Im 
satisfied that Aviva made him aware that the excess would apply each policy year at the time 
of sale, and also when the claim was made. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman