DRN-2873094
The complaint
Mr A complains that U K Insurance Limited (trading as Churchill Car Insurance) unfairly 
valued his car.
What happened
Mr A made a claim after his car was involved in an accident. Churchill concluded that his car 
was a total loss and decided its pre-accident value was £4,000.
Mr A disagreed and complained to Churchill. He felt his car was worth £5,000 and wants 
Churchill to pay this figure. Churchill didnt agree so Mr A asked this service to get involved. 
Mr A says he spent around £3,000 on repairs and maintenance to his car and that other 
equivalent cars were being advertised for sale at a higher price. Mr A says he spent £4,900 
to replace his car with an equivalent make and model.
Our investigator concluded that Churchill had valued Mr As car fairly. Mr A didnt agree so 
the complaint has been passed to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Churchill acted fairly  Ill explain why
The terms of Mr As policy say that if his car is damaged, Churchill will pay to repair or 
replace the car up to its market value and this will be based on the value of the car at the 
time of the claim. The terms define market value as the cost of replacing your car with 
another of the same make and model and of a similar age and condition at the time of the 
accident or loss. Under the terms, Churchill is entitled to decide how to settle the claim 
My role isnt to value Mr As car, but to consider whether the valuation Churchill has reached 
is fair. This service generally considers the fairest approach for an insurer to take when 
determining a valuation is to consider the relevant motor trade guides. These are based on 
extensive national research of likely selling prices and provide valuations based on the 
make, model, age, condition and specification of a car. This service generally finds these 
trade guides to be more persuasive than other sources, such as adverts that dont take into 
account a margin for negotiation from the advertised price.
Churchill says it used several guides to determine its valuation, as well as taking into 
account its engineers report. The report pointed out that Mr As car had some pre-accident 
damage, so Churchill decided to make a deduction from the valuation.
Ive checked relevant trade guides and can see that the market valuation for Mr As car was 
around £3900 to around £4,800. After making a deduction for pre-accident damage, 
Churchill has offered a settlement figure within this range, so I think the valuation is fair.
I acknowledge what Mr A says  that an equivalent car would cost more than the valuation 
and that hes paid a higher amount to purchase a similar car. However, when a car is being 
sold, theres usually a margin applied in the advertised price for profit or negotiation. So the 
advertised price of the car is normally higher than the market value. And the guides are 
based on likely selling prices. 
I note Mr As comments about the money he spent on the maintenance of his car. But the 
market value doesnt take in to account any maintenance carried out to the car. And the 
valuation guides also do not consider this as a factor. So, although I empathise with Mr A, I 
remain satisfied that Churchills offer is fair. 
In summary, I think the valuation figure Churchill has arrived at is fair in the circumstances 
and I wont be asking it to do anything more in relation to this claim.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman