DRN-4479716
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that ERGO Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft hasnt accepted their
holiday home insurance claim in full due to underinsurance. They also complain about
ERGOs handling of their claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H hold a holiday home insurance policy which is underwritten by ERGO. They
made a claim after a flooding incident following the erosion of a riverbank, which ERGO
accepted. Mr and Mrs H complained to ERGO about the time taken to progress the claim.
ERGO issued a final response in May 2022.
My ombudsman colleague issued a final decision in February 2023. She considered ERGOs
handling of the claim up to May 2022. She concluded that ERGO had caused unreasonable
delays and awarded Mr and Mrs H £600 compensation. She also required ERGO to put a
plan in place for the next steps of repairs, and regularly update Mr and Mrs H.
However, ERGO said Mr and Mrs H hadnt provided the correct rebuild cost when taking out
the policy. ERGO thought this was only 57% of what it should have been, and said it would
apply an average to the claim. The repairs were put on hold whilst the matter was
addressed. After Mr and Mrs H complained about this decision, ERGO issued a new final
response in January 2023.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought Mr and Mrs H hadnt
misled ERGO about the rebuild cost, and recommended that ERGO cover Mr and Mrs Hs
claim in full without applying an average. He also recommended that ERGO pay Mr and
Mrs H £500 compensation for the delays on the claim since May 2022.
Mr and Mrs H accepted our investigators recommendations, but ERGO did not.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 November 2023, and reached the same outcome as 
the investigator but for different reasons. Heres what I said:
The policy was taken out through a broker, so I havent considered the sale of the policy.
However, ERGO has provided a statement of fact which confirms the questions asked when
the policy was taken out, and Mr and Mrs Hs answers (or their brokers on their behalf).
Although I understand Mr and Mrs H had already obtained the rebuild cost before seeing the
statement of fact, Ive considered whether the information in this document should have
made them aware the rebuild cost theyd obtained may not have been accurate.
The statement of fact says:
Buildings
What is the full cost of rebuilding your property to the present specification (including
garages and outbuildings) plus approx. 15% to cover demolition costs and architects and
surveyors fees?
The answer given by Mr and Mrs H was £256,000. However, ERGOs surveyors estimated
the rebuild cost to be £448,000.
Ive looked at ERGOs surveyors breakdown of the £448,000 figure. The basic
reinstatement cost of the property, plus the garage and outbuildings, was £284,574. This
isnt far off from Mr and Mrs Hs estimated rebuild cost. However, ERGOs surveyors then
added additional costs for features of the property, the main costs being £51,100 for external
walls and £125,000 for revetment to riverbank.
Mr and Mrs H have provided some information on how they reached the figure of £256,000.
They said they had recently purchased the property for £85,000. They then used a reputable
online rebuild cost calculator and were given a valuation of between £225,000 and
£392,000. This included their garage and outbuildings (but not the external walls or riverbank
wall). Given how much theyd paid for the property, they thought £256,000 would be a
reasonable figure.
Mr and Mrs H are responsible for the riverbank wall, though I understand the local council
has accepted responsibility for the nearby damaged bridge and agreed to contribute towards
some of the riverbank wall repairs.
Ive thought about whether it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs H not to include the external
walls and the riverbank wall in the rebuild figure they gave ERGO. Having done so, it seems
to me that ERGO didnt give Mr and Mrs H enough information about the information it
wanted to know, or how they might obtain that information. Ill explain why.
The statement of fact didnt say what was meant by property, other than this included
garages and outbuildings. I dont think this was enough detail, and it didnt make Mr and
Mrs H aware that ERGO wanted to know about any external walls or unusual features. So I
dont think it was unreasonable for Mr and Mrs H to think that ERGO just wanted to know
about the rebuild cost of the main house plus any garages and outbuildings.
The statement of fact also didnt give any explanation of how Mr and Mrs H should go about
obtaining the rebuild cost. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr and Mrs H to use the
online rebuild cost calculator. This wouldnt have been able to give them a figure for the
reinstatement cost of the external walls or riverbank wall, but as Ive said, they didnt know
these needed to be included.
I therefore find that Mr and Mrs H acted reasonably by obtaining the rebuild cost of the main
property, plus the garage and outbuildings.
I note that ERGOs surveyor included other costs in the calculation (such as fencing and
drains), and also estimated that the rebuild cost of the property including garage and
outbuildings was £284,574. However, this was a detailed valuation by a surveyor which
wasnt available to Mr and Mrs H when they took out the policy. Its not reasonable to expect
Mr and Mrs H to have carried out a valuation to the same standard as this.
Ive thought about whether the rebuild figure of £256,000 Mr and Mrs H gave ERGO was
reasonable, given they could have chosen between £225,000 and £392,000. They clearly
chose the lower end of these figures, but I can understand why they did so, given they had
recently purchased the house for £85,000 (and the rebuild cost of the property wouldnt
include the value of the land). So that doesnt seem unreasonable to me, and £256,000 was
still within the range theyd been given.
However, the statement of fact did say to add on 15%, so even if Mr and Mrs H had chosenthe lowest figure of £225,000 plus 15%, this would have given a sum insured of £258,750.
But this was only £2,750 more than the figure they gave, so I think this would have only
made a minimal difference to the premium, if at all.
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs H took reasonable steps when
obtaining the rebuild cost and so I intend to require ERGO to deal with the claim in full.
Mr and Mrs H have also complained that nothing has happened on the claim since May
2022. I appreciate ERGO didnt want to proceed with the claim whilst the underinsurance
matter was in dispute. However, given that Ive found Mr and Mrs H acted reasonably here, I
agree with our investigator that ERGO should pay them £500 compensation to recognise the
inconvenience the delay has had on them.
I asked both parties for any further comments they wished to make before I made a final 
decision. 
Mr and Mrs H responded to say they accepted my provisional findings. They also said the 
council have completed their side of the repairs.
ERGO didnt respond with any further comments by the deadline we gave. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new submissions for me to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the findings I made in my provisional decision. So Ive reached the same 
conclusions, and for the same reasons. 
Mr and Mrs H have confirmed that the council have finished their side of the repairs. I 
understand that the repairs to Mr and Mrs Hs side can only take place at a certain time of 
the year. My ombudsman colleague previously issued a decision requiring ERGO to put a 
plan in place for the next steps of repairs, and regularly update Mr and Mrs H about this. As 
the underinsurance aspect has now been resolved and Ive found that ERGO should deal 
with the claim in full, I would expect ERGO to now do this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require ERGO Versicherung 
Aktiengesellschaft to deal with the claim in full, and pay Mr and Mrs H £500
compensation*.
*ERGO must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it that Mr and 
Mrs H accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman