DRN-2576544
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Ageas Insurance Limited has turned down a claim they made
for alternative accommodation allowance following an escape of water claim they made on
their home insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs H are represented by B, their loss assessor.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs H have a second property. During March 2018, there was an escape of water in
the property and there was extensive water damage as a result. Mr and Mrs H made a claim
on their home insurance policy and appointed B to deal with the claim on their behalf.
The reinstatement works went on over several months and it seems there were some delays
in issuing cash payments to Mr and Mrs H, which meant they had to pay their own
contractors at point before they were reimbursed. This was resolved after B complained on
Mr and Mrs Hs behalf.
B claimed for a payment in lieu of alternative accommodation of around £13,000 and for the
council tax Mr and Mrs H had paid for their second home that year. It argued that Mr and
Mrs Hs second home had been uninhabitable, and they hadnt been able to spend as much
time there as they usually would. It also said that Mr and Mrs H had had to do round trips of
around eighty miles each way a few times a week to check up on the progression of the
works.
Ageas turned down the claim for alternative accommodation. It said Mr and Mrs H hadnt
needed alternative accommodation as they had remained at their main property. And it said
that because the property wasnt tenanted, there was no loss of rent payment due. There
was a proposal that Ageas might consider paying Mr and Mrs H a disturbance allowance to
cover meals for the time theyd usually be at the property.
Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy with Ageas position. So B asked us to look into Mr and
Mrs Hs complaint.  
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. While she accepted
Mr and Mrs H hadnt been able to use their second home, she noted theyd lived in their
main home for the duration of the claim. They hadnt rented a property in the local vicinity, so
hadnt incurred any additional accommodation charges. This meant the investigator thought
it would be unreasonable to ask Ageas to pay them the amount theyd claimed for alternative
accommodation.
She also didnt think Ageas needed to reimburse Mr and Mrs H for their council tax. Thats
because theyd always have needed to pay it and they hadnt incurred any council tax bills
over and above what theyd normally pay as a result of the claim. She accepted Mr and Mrs
H had visited the property a few times each week. But she didnt think Ageas needed to
reimburse them for these costs. She thought itd been their choice to oversee the claim and
theyd appointed B to handle the claim on their behalf.
B disagreed. It said Mr and Mrs H were paying a premium for a proportion of the policy they
couldnt ever claim on. It said it was common practice for insurers to make payments in lieu
of alternative accommodation where there was a cash saving. It didnt agree that its role had
been to oversee the claim. B added that itd dealt with many claims where an insurer had
paid travelling costs for policyholders in alternative accommodation. It felt that stating Ageas
was open to the payment of disturbance allowance was a misrepresentation of the facts,
because this had been offered by the loss adjuster and hadnt been approved by Ageas. B
asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
Ive issued two provisional decisions on this complaint. I issued my first provisional decision 
on 14 September 2020 and the second on 29 January 2020. Ill set out my provisional 
findings below.
My first provisional decision
On 14 September 2020, I explained why I thought Ageas should pay Mr and Mrs H a 
proportionate disturbance allowance for loss of amenity and for the time theyd usually spend 
at the property. I said:
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H feel strongly about their complaint. Its clear this was a largescale
claim which caused them disruption of their usual plans and which required a great
deal of reinstatement works. Its also clear that theyve suffered some delays while the
claims been ongoing and Im pleased to see that Ageas offered them interest on the
delayed cash settlement payments to reimburse them for being out of pocket, together with
compensation. These points werent the subject of the complaint though, so I wont be
commenting on them any further.
It seems to me that Mr and Mrs Hs complaint turns on three issues  whether they should
receive a settlement in lieu of alternative accommodation; whether they should be refunded
their council tax for their second property; and whether disturbance allowance should be
paid. Ill consider each issue in turn.
Should Ageas pay Mr and Mrs H a settlement in lieu of alternative accommodation?
Ive looked closely at the policy terms. These say, under What is Covered  Additional
costs of alternative accommodation substantially the same as your existing accommodation,
which you have to pay for while the buildings cannot be lived in following loss or damage.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Hs property required extensive drying and then significant
reinstatement works followed. I accept Bs statement that the property was uninhabitable.
But in this case, I simply dont think it would be fair and reasonable to make Ageas pay a
settlement in lieu of alternative accommodation. Its common ground that while Mr and Mrs H
werent able to use their second property in the way theyd planned to, they were able to live
in their main home. They werent put out of their main home for works at any point. So they
werent left in a position where they needed to rent another property because they couldnt
remain in their home. Im satisfied that had Mr and Mrs H been in a position where they
required alternative accommodation; this cover wouldve been engaged.
This means that Mr and Mrs H didnt incur any additional costs for accommodation as a
result of the claim. And while B says insurers often pay out in lieu of alternative
accommodation, I dont think Ageas was under any obligation to do so.
B also says that Mr and Mrs H have also paid a portion of their premium for a section of the
policy that cant cover them. Ive thought about this. But most, if not all, home insurance
policies cover alternative accommodation. So I dont think Mr and Mrs H couldve found analternative policy without this cover, which wouldve cost them less.
So Im not planning to tell Ageas to pay Mr and Mrs H any settlement in lieu of alternative
accommodation.
Should Ageas refund Mr and Mrs Hs council tax?
B says that Ageas should refund Mr and Mrs Hs council tax for their second property,
because they werent using it. As Ive explained above, I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs H
couldnt use their second home as theyd planned, so likely feel theyve paid council tax
when they havent had the benefit of the property.
But I dont agree that this is something Ageas is liable to pay for. Regardless of whether Mr
and Mrs H used their second home, they would always have needed to pay council tax on it.
Just as theyll need to pay council tax on their main home during the times theyre away from
it.
Had Mr and Mrs H needed to rent alternative accommodation, Id have agreed that Ageas
wouldve been liable to cover the council tax on that property. Thats because it wouldve
been a loss directly attributable to the claim. But that isnt what happened here. Mr and Mrs
H didnt incur any council tax costs over and above what theyd usually pay. So it follows Im
not planning to direct Ageas to refund these costs.
Should Ageas pay disturbance allowance?
I can see from the correspondence between B and Ageas loss adjuster that there was a
proposal that Ageas would consider a proportionate disturbance allowance for the loss of
amenities while Mr and Mrs H couldnt use their kitchen. It seems as though this was never
followed-up. But I do think this was a reasonable proposition.
B believes Mr and Mrs H should be reimbursed for their regular trips to their second
property. I can understand why they wanted to check on the progress of their claim and that
they did need to visit to arrange replacement contents and decide on dcor etc. Theyd likely
have needed to arrange meals during that time. But I think that some of those costs were
naturally the consequence of a large insurance claim. And I agree with the investigator that
given Mr and Mrs H had appointed B to act for them in handling and managing the claim,
they may not have needed to visit as often as they did. So I currently think that a
proportionate disturbance allowance payment reasonably takes these trips into account.
Both I and the investigator asked Ageas if it was prepared to make such a payment and if
so, how that settlement would be calculated. Unfortunately, I havent received a response.
So I cant say here what that settlement would be. In the absence of such a calculation, I
currently think the fair and reasonable outcome would be for Ageas to pay Mr and Mrs H
proportionate disturbance allowance for the loss of amenity and for the periods theyd have
usually made use of their home, in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Responses to my first provisional decision
Ageas calculated a disturbance allowance based on Mr and Mrs H visiting their property
once a week for 10 months (a total of 40 trips), based on a round trip distance of 156 miles
each time. It attributed 20p per mile petrol cost and calculated this would cost £1248.40. It
also added £400 for kitchen disturbance. This meant its total offer was £1648.40.
B didnt accept my provisional findings. It said Mr and Mrs H had incurred costs as a direct
consequence of their claim. It said given the purpose of insurance is to indemnify a
policyholder, it didnt matter whether the claim was large or small. It queried why I wasplanning to award disturbance allowance, which wasnt included in the policy wording, but
not Council Tax, meals out etc., which also werent included in the insurance contract. It felt
it was irrelevant whether all policies would include alternative accommodation cover, as this
wouldve been factored into the risk price of the policy. It didnt agree that the principle or
precedent that a policyholder with more than one home wouldnt be eligible for settlement for
alternative accommodation would be upheld by the courts.
B also calculated what it felt fair settlement for a disturbance allowance settlement would be.
It felt allowance should be made for 60 trips, at petrol costs of 80p per mile  a total of
£7488. It also felt that Mr and Mrs H should be paid £10 per person per day for subsistence
allowance  an amount of £1200. In total, it felt they should be paid £8688.
My second provisional decision
I issued a second provisional on 29 January 2021, which explained why I thought Ageas 
offer of a proportionate settlement was fair and reasonable. I said:
I appreciate B considers that a court wouldnt agree with my findings that its fair and
reasonable for Ageas to turn down Mr and Mrs Hs alternative accommodation claim. In
making my decision though, our rules say I need to decide whats a fair and reasonable
outcome in the individual circumstances of a complaint. This means I need to consider
whats fair and reasonable to both parties. And Ive thought about what alternative
accommodation cover Ageas likely intended to provide within its contract.
As I set out in my first provisional decision, alternative accommodation cover is intended to
pay for accommodation for policyholders whose homes become uninhabitable as a result of
something thats covered by the policy and where theyd incurred costs as a result of renting
an alternative. In this case, Mr and Mrs Hs main home wasnt damaged  the damage was
to their second home. While they werent able to use their second home as theyd originally
planned while the works were carried out; they were able to live in their main home, at no
additional cost to themselves in terms of Council Tax etc. And if they paid out more for
utilities at their main property, it seems these would most likely have been offset by paying
less for these costs at their second home. So Im still persuaded that it was fair and
reasonable for Ageas to turn down Mr and Mrs Hs alternative accommodation claim.
B also queried why I plan to award disturbance allowance when this wasnt specifically
included in the policy wording. It was clear from my review of the file that Ageas had
suggested that an inconvenience payment would be paid to Mr and Mrs H as part of the
claim settlement. But there was no suggestion this had been paid. So I felt it was fair for
Ageas to pay a settlement itd previously indicated would be included in the overall claim
payment. Im not directing Ageas to pay Mr and Mrs Hs Council Tax or meal costs because
these are costs theyd always have had to pay out, regardless of the claim.
Id also add that policyholders often pay for insurance policies which include a range of
cover, which they will never need to claim on, or they may make claims which arent
payable. This doesnt mean that the insurer wasnt on risk or that it wasnt entitled to charge
a premium for that cover. I have seen home insurance policies that dont offer cover for
alternative accommodation, but in any event I dont think it is irrelevant. Thats because Im
satisfied that theyve not suffered any detriment as a result of the inclusion of alternative
accommodation cover in their policy with Ageas.
Is Ageas offer of disturbance allowance fair and reasonable?
Its clear theres a significant gap between what B thinks a fair disturbance allowance shouldlook like and what Ageas has offered. Our investigator asked B to provide a breakdown of
the allowance it thought should be paid and any substantiation of those costs and Ageas
tells us it has done the same, although its not had a response. So its based its calculation
on what B told our investigator. For ease, Ive copied Bs response below:
They visited throughout the period March to December for periods of a few hours each time,
sometimes three times in a week, sometimes twice, sometimes once and there would have
been occasional weeks when they didnt visit at all. They did not anticipate having to account
for their movements and so did not retain a record.
However, they attended variously to deal with emergency making safe; meeting with the
surveyor and briefing him; attending with the surveyor for preparation of the repair
specification; and further attendances with him resulting from changes to the condition of the
property as the manifestation of damage became worse. They attended to enable access to
building contractors to tender for the works of repair. They attended to salvage contents and
identify what might be capable of restoration and to arrange visits by restorers and be in
attendance for the collection of contents for restoration; and other salvaged contents to go
separately into safe storage. They had to prepare lists of what had been damaged both for
the purpose of claim, but equally to establish what they had to replace. They had to attend
for other building specialists for elements of the repair works; and for the kitchen suppliers to
measure up for the replacement kitchen. During the course of building works they visited
both to monitor progress and discuss with the surveyor those items which inevitably arise
during a repair programme and to select finishes for things like tiles and decoration. They
had to attend to receive delivery of returned items from storage and restorers, and
replacement items they had purchased, all post works but before they could occupy.
It was not our role to do any of those things, and their visits were for perfectly legitimate
reasons.
Ageas offer is calculated based on Mr and Mrs H visiting the property once a week, with a
round trip mileage of 156 miles. B says that sometimes, they visited the property more often
than that, sometimes once a week and sometimes not at all. Ive considered the tasks B
says they were undertaking during their visits to their second home and it seems to me that it
was fair for Ageas to conclude that, in most cases, these couldve been achieved by a
maximum of a weekly visit. So on this basis, I think this was a fair average. Id also point out
that Ageas isnt obliged to pay a mileage amount at all, so I think its offer here is very fair.
The kitchen disturbance allowance takes into account the fact the kitchen couldnt be used.
Mr and Mrs H werent staying at the property during their visits, so it seems to me that its fair
for Ageas not to necessarily pay them the same level of disturbance allowance that it would
pay a policyholder who decides to stay living in their home while works are carried out. The
allowance also isnt designed to reimburse Mr and Mrs H for their food costs  as theyd
always need to pay to eat, whether out or by buying food. The payment is designed to reflect
the loss of amenity of the kitchen during this period. Its also designed to be a proportionate
payment  for the time Mr and Mrs H would usually have spent at the property. Bs
suggested this was continuous through the summer months and frequently during the year,
although it isnt clear how often this was. I dont think I can fairly direct Ageas to pay out for
periods when Mr and Mrs H wouldnt usually have been at the property.
On this basis, I think £400 compensation for loss of amenity is fair and reasonable and I
dont propose to tell Ageas to pay anything more here.
Overall, I currently think Ageas total offer of £1648.00 as a disturbance allowance is fair and
reasonable. Im not planning to tell it to pay anything more.Responses to my second provisional decision
Ageas accepted my provisional decision and said it would pay Mr and Mrs H £1648.00 once 
it received their acceptance.
B said it didnt consider my provisional decision to be fair or reasonable and it felt I wasnt 
prepared to listen to their representations. It referred to the fact I hadnt accepted what 
should be a fair mileage rate, as Id said that Ageas wasnt obliged to pay mileage at all. It 
argued that as Ageas had introduced a mileage payment, it was entitled to challenge the 
rate. It felt Id referred only to the kitchen being affected, when the whole property had been 
affected. And Id ignored industry practice by saying that Mr and Mrs H wouldve always 
needed to pay for food, as restaurant prices and takeaways cost more than base food. It felt 
the loss of amenity payment, split over nine months, was risible.
But B also stated that Mr and Mrs H had no alternative but to accept my provisional decision. 
It noted that I hadnt added interest to my proposed award.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Ive decided that Ageas offer is fair and reasonable and Ill explain why.
Id like to reassure B that I did carefully consider all of the representations it made. My 
provisional decisions did refer to the whole property being uninhabitable. As I mentioned in 
my second provisional decision, our investigator asked B to provide a breakdown of what it 
thought should be paid as a disturbance allowance and substantiation of those costs. Ageas 
said it had done the same but had received no response. B told us what it thought a fair 
settlement should be, but it hasnt substantiated those costs. Following my provisional 
decision, B hasnt provided any further evidence of the actual costs Mr and Mrs H incurred.
Taking into account the tasks that B said Mr and Mrs H were carrying out, Im still persuaded 
it was reasonable for Ageas to conclude that these couldve been achieved by a maximum of 
a weekly visit. And Im still satisfied, on the evidence to hand, given B hasnt provided any 
evidence of Mr and Mrs Hs actual mileage costs, that the mileage rate Ageas offered was 
based on a reasonable average and was calculated fairly.
In some circumstances, insurers do pay a disturbance allowance. This might represent some 
of the additional costs a policyholder might incur, such as food, if theyve chosen not to take 
up an insurers offer of alternative accommodation, or their alternative accommodation 
doesnt include cooking facilities etc. But in the circumstances of this case, Mr and Mrs H 
werent staying at the property  they made round-trip visits. So I dont think they were put to 
the same, or similar level of disturbance as a policyholder who lives in their home while 
works are ongoing or who might be staying in a hotel or with family. This means I dont think 
Ageas needed to pay them the same level of disturbance allowance  I think a proportionate 
payment was fair and reasonable.
Overall, based on all Ive seen, Im satisfied that a total settlement of £1648.00 is fair and 
reasonable in all of the circumstances. As this payment is intended as a benefit, rather than 
representing a payment to indemnify specific losses, Ive decided, in this case, not to award 
interest on this amount. Im pleased that both parties have now agreed with my provisional 
decision. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decisions, my final decision is that I 
think Ageas offer of disturbance allowance is fair and reasonable.
I direct Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs H £1648.00.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman