DRN-3314170
The complaint
Mr M has complained that his personal data was compromised following a cyber-attack on 
Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money). He is also unhappy with the service 
he has received following this.  
What happened
118 118 Money were the victims of a cyber-attack. They wrote to Mr M at the end of     
March 2020 to explain this. 
It said it had taken several measures to protect customers. Such as removing access to the 
website and app, informing the relevant authorities and regulators, and offering customers 
access to an identity fraud monitoring service. 
Mr M remained concerned and asked to speak to a manager. Hes said he was told hed be 
called back, but wasnt, and he had to chase this. He says he then contacted                    
118 118 Money by live chat and phone again, but couldnt get the help he needed, before 
raising a complaint. 
118 118 Money responded and said that they had taken all reasonable steps following the 
attack. It did not agree to pay Mr M any compensation. Mr M remained unhappy, he said he 
wasnt sure that 118 118 Money had done enough to protect customers data. He was also 
unhappy with the level of service provided and said there were several occasions he hadnt 
been responded to and promises hadnt been kept. 
Our investigator looked into it. She did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She 
concluded that 118 118 Money had acted reasonably in regard to the cyber-attack and the 
steps it took to reassure Mr M. Whilst she acknowledged the service issues, she said that 
the ongoing pandemic had a significant impact and that Mr M had been given the information 
regarding the attack and the steps taken. 
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators conclusions. He said, in summary, that no promises 
were kept and that he hadnt been reassured about the measures following the cyber-attack. 
As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
[What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our Service isnt the industry regulator. That means we dont set the rules for financial 
businesses, or police the industry to make sure those rules are followed. And we dont have 
the power to fine or punish businesses. These are all issues dealt with by the regulator. 
The regulator of the financial services industry is the Financial Conduct Authority, who 
authorised 118 118 Money to provide the loan account to Mr M. Separately the ICO 
regulates compliance to data protection laws in the UK. Based on what Ive seen, it has 
already investigated the data breach and what steps were taken after the incident. It decided 
no regulatory action was required. In addition, it would also be inappropriate of me to 
reconsider issues that an alternative body has considered  and is better placed to consider. 
My decision will focus on the service Mr M received following the cyber-attack and the steps 
taken by 118 118 Money. Having considered the evidence, I dont uphold the complaint and 
will explain my reasoning below. 
The steps taken after the cyber attack
118 118 Money contacted Mr M within a short period of time after it became aware of the 
cyber-attack. It set out what had happened, what the likely consequences were, what steps it 
had taken following the breach, and what action it recommended Mr M take. For Mr M this 
included a fraud monitoring service for 12 months. I think, in the circumstances, it treated   
Mr M fairly here. 
I accept Mr M was distressed about the data breach and, that as it seemed to only impact 
those that had made calls to 118 118 Money - he was particularly concerned. And I can see 
that is reflected in his attempts to contact them. But I find that they did all that I would expect 
them to do to reassure and support Mr M. 
The service provided 
Mr M is also unhappy that he made several attempts to contact 118 118 Money without an 
answer or a response, particularly between March and July 2020. 
Having reviewed the attempted contact, I agree that they didnt get back to Mr M on several 
occasions. Whilst this is disappointing and mustve been frustrating for Mr M, Ive kept in 
mind that there was an ongoing pandemic at that time and the associated restrictions and 
disruption which significantly impacted the service that many businesses like 118 118 Money 
were trying to offer. 
Whilst there were delays, in the specific circumstances of this case, Im reasonably satisfied 
that the reassurances Mr M sought had already been addressed in the final response letter 
previously sent to Mr M. 
In short, I havent seen any evidence that there was any more new or substantive 
information to give Mr M or that he lost out because of the delays in 118 118 money 
responding to his queries.
Summary
I havent seen sufficient supporting evidence to conclude that 118 118 Money didnt give    
Mr M the information he needed or the offer of on-going support to minimise the 
inconvenience suffered. Whilst I accept the level of service provided to Mr M, at times, fell below what he may have 
reasonably expected, Im mindful of the impact the pandemic was having, and that Mr M had 
already received assurances and support. For these reasons, I dont find that the service 
provided by 118 118 Money is poor to the extent that compensation is warranted or 
appropriate here.
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman