DRN-3537246
The complaint
Miss M complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc wont make any form of refund for payments 
made on her credit card for wedding services abroad.
What happened
In July and November 2019 Miss M used her Sainsburys credit card to make payments 
towards her wedding abroad due to take place in 2020. Due to the pandemic she and the 
wedding provider agreed to move the wedding to April 2021, and she paid extra to do this. In 
January 2021 Miss M and the wedding provider discussed and corresponded about the April 
date due to the evolving nature of the pandemic at that time. Miss M decided to have her 
wedding locally and not with the wedding provider. She asked for her money back, but the 
wedding provider refused and offered a voucher, having stated that local legislation allowed 
for such vouchers to be offered. The voucher remains valid and Miss M has since had her 
wedding near home. But Miss M hasnt had any money back, so she took her complaint to 
Sainsburys.
Sainsburys looked into the matter but concluded it didnt think it could help. This was 
because it didnt think it could pursue a chargeback further because it didnt have a 
reasonable prospect of success in its view. And it didnt think a claim under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 should be successful. So it didnt think it could do any more for 
Miss M.
Miss M didnt think this was fair, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into the matter. Overall, he didnt think Sainsburys had acted unfairly by 
declining Miss Ms request for a refund. Miss M didnt agree. So the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make very clear that this decision is not about the wedding provider, which isnt a 
financial services provider and so doesnt fall within my remit.  Whatever the issues there 
maybe with the wedding provider and just because Miss M feels shes lost money, it doesnt 
necessarily follow that Sainsburys has treated Miss M unfairly. 
Sainsburys role in the matter is to be considered in two ways. Firstly under its obligations 
the Chargeback rules in place and secondly with regard to its consideration of Miss Ms S75 
claim to it and whether it considered the claim appropriately. 
The Chargeback rules are under a voluntary scheme run by the card network and 
consumers do not have a right to a chargeback being raised. It is however the case that this 
Service considers raising a chargeback to be good practice where it has a reasonable 
prospect of success. And the question of whether or not Sainsburys has treated Miss M fairly 
is the only question I can decide upon in this decision. This is an important distinction which I 
hope Ive made sufficiently clear.
Miss M accepts she made the transactions for the wedding on the relevant dates and that 
she did this transaction with the wedding provider in question. Ive considered the 
transactions themselves, and having done so, Im satisfied the transactions were properly 
authorised by Miss M and correctly applied to her account with Sainsburys.
could Sainsburys challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Miss M do 
here, Sainsburys (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through the chargeback process. I 
dont think Sainsburys couldve challenged the payment on the basis Miss M didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given the conclusions on this issue that Ive already set out.
Sainsburys is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when 
it is considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through 
the process, then it must do so properly. The wedding provider would then receive that 
chargeback request and may agree to refund the payment or may contest the chargeback. If 
it contests, then Sainsburys should consider this and then if it still feels the chargeback is 
warranted, then it can take the chargeback further and ultimately to the card network (not 
Sainsburys) who will then make an independent determination on the matter. So Sainsburys 
isnt solely responsible for the decision whether to refund or not when going through the 
chargeback process. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it doesnt think 
there is a reasonable prospect of success.
Sainsburys didnt raise a chargeback here. Its position is that it was out of time and any such 
chargeback didnt have a reasonable prospect of success, so it didnt pursue a chargeback. 
So Ive considered this decision by Sainsburys carefully.
Having considered the chargeback reasons available (which are defined and limited in the 
card scheme rules) Im not persuaded Miss M has lost out because Sainsburys didnt raise a 
chargeback. I say this because I dont think there was a reasonable prospect of success 
considering the situation and the chargeback rules. Sainsburys originally pointed to the time-
barring rules within the chargeback rules. And although with regard to one of the 
transactions I think time-bar is a factor Im not necessarily persuaded the latter transaction 
on Miss Ms card was out of time.
Nevertheless I do consider that neither transaction had a reasonable prospect of success 
had they been put through the chargeback process. Firstly it is clear that the wedding 
provider does not agree with Miss M regarding her complaint. Secondly it seems clear that 
what was originally agreed is not entirely clear due to not having any contract from the first 
agreed wedding date. We do have contractual agreement from the later agreed wedding 
date which may or may not be identical to that of the first. Either way its terms do not provide 
for Miss M being refunded what had already been paid in the circumstances we have here. 
Lastly the chargeback scheme is voluntary scheme set up essentially for dealing with 
straightforward disputes between consumers and merchants. It is not designed to deal with 
complex contractual matters or consideration of local laws and other such issues which 
appear in this case. And accordingly the chargeback reason codes available here under 
which chargebacks can be raised dont fit the complexities of events in this case. So Im not 
persuaded that Sainsburys has treated Miss M unfairly by not raising a chargeback here on 
either transaction. And even if it had raised chargebacks on these transactions Im not 
persuaded that theyd have been successful. I say this because, as Ill explain later, there 
was legislation which enabled the wedding provider to offer a voucher (the Voucher 
Legislation as Ill describe later in this decision) and this is what the wedding provider offered here. So I dont think Miss M has lost out due to Sainsburys position regarding chargeback 
because I dont think a Chargeback would have succeeded had it gone to the end stage of 
the chargeback process.
Miss M used her Sainsburys credit card to pay these transactions. This means that if certain 
criteria are met, Sainsburys can have certain responsibilities to Miss M which arise from the 
relevant law, specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). In 
summary in certain circumstances Section 75 has the effect of allowing Miss M to hold 
Sainsburys liable for breaches of contract, or misrepresentations made in relation to the 
agreement made. In essence Sainsburys can be held responsible for a like claim against 
the wedding provider.
Section 75
There are criteria to be met here if a S75 claim is to be successful, namely in respect of 
financial limits and with regard to the Debtor /Creditor/ Supplier relationship. But because 
Ive decided this claim isnt to be successful for other reasons I dont think I need to decide 
whether these criteria are met or not. I shall now explain my reasons for saying this s75 
claim shouldnt be successful.
For Sainsburys to be held accountable under a like claim under s75 it has to be shown that 
the supplier (the wedding provider) either breached the contract or materially misrepresented 
something to Miss M which was untrue and that her fair reliance on that untruth led to loss. 
Miss M hasnt persuasively argued that she was duped or lied to in order to get her to enter 
the contract with the wedding provider, so Sainsburys cant be responsible for any 
misrepresentation here.
Miss M has indicated that the contract provided for the second agreed date is similar at 
least, if not identical, to that which is unavailable for the first date agreed for the wedding. I 
note in the contract version we do have it is stipulated that the relevant law to this contract is 
that of the state and country of where the wedding was due to take place. I can see there is 
a requirement to accept the terms of the contract when agreeing to it. So Im satisfied that 
Miss M agreed to any disputes being considered in that country (which is not in the UK).
The contract version we do have also doesnt provide any circumstances for those parties 
paying for wedding provision to receive refunds. The only terms around cancellations agreed 
are where those planning to get married seek to cancel and the terms are that they dont get 
any money back and may be liable for more than paid depending on timespans between 
cancellation and the agreed wedding date. So it seems likely that in the contract originally 
agreed (and that agreed for the second agreed date) there were no explicit terms explaining 
that Miss M was due a refund which would make Sainsburys liable for such a refund. 
It also isnt made out that the wedding planner has breached the explicit contract terms here. 
I say this because it is clear that in January 2021 Miss M emailed the wedding provider 
stating that it had confirmed in a recent phone call that the April date couldnt go ahead due 
to lockdown in the country where the wedding was to take place. The wedding providers 
offer to reschedule to July 2021 was declined by Miss M, who asked for a refund of all 
payments made. The wedding provider declined this and offered vouchers instead. Miss M 
was unhappy with this, but the wedding provider said recent national legislation supported its 
position (I refer to this as the Voucher Legislation for ease).
I note that the Investigator in their assessment of this case set out a detailed explanation of 
the events in this case and the relevant legal aspects as well, the facts of which I agree with 
across the piece. And accordingly to avoid repetition and to ensure clarity and brevity I have 
and shall comment on the deciding elements as I see them. I shall also address the more 
important comments Miss M has made in an effort to be clear and concise.Miss M says the Voucher Legislation allowing for the provision of vouchers is unfair. 
Ultimately she has under S75 a like claim against Sainsburys as she does against the 
wedding provider. As Sainsburys has pointed out this is only a like claim, Miss M doesnt 
have a stronger claim against Sainsburys due to locality than against the wedding planner. 
In essence her claim is a like claim against Sainsburys and would be a like claim under the 
jurisdiction agreed in the contract she agreed, namely her claim would be under the law of 
the land and state set out specifically and clearly in the contract (which is not the UK). And it 
is clear that the Voucher Legislation in that country is valid in that country and thus 
Sainsbury is entitled to rely on the voucher Legislation just as the wedding provider is. And I 
consider that to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Miss M points to European cases and legal comment which she says shows the Voucher 
Legislation is unfair. I dont think this is a persuasive argument. Its clear the Voucher 
Legislation is valid in the jurisdiction Miss M agreed to be bound by. And as such Sainsburys 
can rely on it in its defence of Miss Ms S75 like claim to it. So I dont think this is persuasive 
that Sainsburys has treated her unfairly. It should be remembered that Sainsburys has to 
consider her S75 claim against it fairly. It isnt required to challenge legislation or decide on 
whether other countries legislation is unfair and then hold itself accountable to a higher 
standard than the claim Miss M has against the wedding provider.
Miss M says that the assessment of the Investigator that the Voucher Legislation can be 
relied up is an unlawful legislative position, which is incompatible with the European 
Directive and national law, is being accepted runs contrary to the principles of 
reasonableness and fairness. I disagree for a number of reasons. Firstly it is not for this 
service to decide on whether laws in other countries are lawful or not. This is an informal 
dispute resolution service for consumers to use for individual disputes. Secondly it is not for 
Sainsburys to decide whether laws in other countries are legal or fair either. Thirdly Miss M 
only has a like claim against Sainsburys and it is clear that the wedding provider can rely on 
the voucher legislation to defend Miss Ms claim against it. So it is entirely fair for Sainsburys 
to be able to use the same defence and this reasonable and fair. And lastly the European 
legal position, nor this countries for that matter is largely moot, Sainsburys is entitled to 
defend itself against a like claim in the jurisdiction where Miss M would bring such a claim 
against the wedding provider-namely in the stated region and country named in the contract.
Miss M says Whilst a voucher was offered, the fact that reimbursement was required at the 
expiry of the voucher was not made clear, in fact it was not specified at all. That omission 
and email from (the wedding provider) is an expressed misrepresentation of the legal 
position at the relevant time. I am far from persuaded that this makes a difference. Firstly 
omission isnt express misrepresentation or a misrepresentation. Misrepresentation is the 
statement of something as fact, which is relied upon, which transpires to have been untrue 
and the reliance on which has led to detriment. Clearly Miss M didnt and couldnt have relied 
on this omission of a positive outcome for her (namely the possibility of reimbursement later) 
to her detriment. And that doesnt even consider the important issue here that Miss M 
couldnt reasonably think she was taking local legal advice from a wedding planner who was 
the other party in a contract she was a party to. And the fact there is the opportunity and 
possibility for her to get reimbursement at the point of the vouchers expiry in the future is to 
Miss Ms benefit not detriment. Omission is not misrepresentation.
Miss M says the suggestion is that I go through this process again in January 23. That in of
itself is extremely unfair. It is clear that Miss M and countless others have suffered as a 
result of the pandemic. That however doesnt make it fair that Sainsburys pays out for Miss 
Ms losses here when it hasnt done anything wrong. Ultimately under the CCA Miss M can 
raise a s75 claim against Sainsburys at that time in the event that the wedding provider doesnt make reimbursement as per the relevant local legislation. That is the essence of a 
like claim, and it should be remembered that S75 in essence allows consumers an avenue 
to have a like claim through the courts against credit providers as they do through the courts 
against the supplier. This is significantly different basis of claim compared to any claim Miss 
M has against Sainsburys directly in regard to her contractual relationship she has with it.  
And it should also be remembered that were it not for S75 Miss M would have no such like 
claim against Sainsburys for what has happened with this wedding provider and that shed 
be facing taking and logging her claim in the country and state jurisdiction she agreed to (in 
the contract she agreed with the wedding provider). 
All in all Im not persuaded Miss M has lost out because of what Sainsburys has done here 
in terms of its position regarding S75 or chargeback. I can see Sainsburys offered £50 some 
time ago for its customer service. Having considered what happened then Im not persuaded 
it needs to do anything more in that regard. Accordingly Miss Ms complaint does not 
succeed.
I do empathise with Miss M for what has happened here and can well appreciate that a 
substantial amount of coming and going took place here due to the unforeseeable 
consequences of the pandemic as it evolved over time. But Sainsburys hasnt done anything 
wrong and it would be unfair on Sainsburys for it to have to refund this money. So this 
complaint is unsuccessful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Sainsburys Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman