DRN-4494941
The complaint
Ms C complains about the information Advantage Insurance Company Limited gave when 
handling her claim on her car insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms Cs car was damaged, so she claimed on her policy with Advantage. When Ms Cs car 
was returned to her, she said there was water getting into the boot, which wasnt happening 
previously and so Ms C thought it was accident related. 
Advantage agreed to review the issues with the repairs and ultimately determined they were 
accident related. However, while this was happening Ms C was charged around £1,500 for 
the hire car she was using while hers was in for repair. Ms C complained to Advantage about 
this. She said shed been told the keep the hire car and this had resulted in her being 
charged for it. 
Advantage reviewed the complaint and initially offered £75 compensation for poor claim 
handling. Ms C didnt accept this and so Advantage reviewed it again and issued its final 
response letter. In this, it said Ms C had been asked by the hire car company to return the 
car on 8 April and that Advantage had also said this to Ms C on 25 April. However, 
Advantage agreed it gave incorrect information on 5 May and this resulted in the hire car 
being returned 5 days later than it should. So, it agreed to pay for the hire car for 5 days and 
increased its compensation to £30. Advantage said it would pay Ms C an additional £226.55 
for 5 days hire car costs, plus £30 compensation, making the total it would pay of £256.55. 
Ms C didnt think this was fair and referred her complaint here, she said shed been charged 
around £1,500 for a hire car and didnt think this was fair. 
Our Investigator reviewed the complaint and found that Ms C had been provided with a hire 
car outside of her car insurance policy while her car was in for repair. As Ms C hadnt 
complained about being provided with a hire car, she found this would need to be 
considered separately. However, our Investigator also didnt think Advantage had acted fairly 
when putting things right for the incorrect information it gave Ms C about returning the hire 
car. She found that 5 days hire charges amounted to £271.86 and so didnt think Advantage 
had calculated the amount correctly. She asked Advantage to increase what it would pay for 
5 days hire car charges. She also recommended Advantage add 8% interest to the amount it 
pays to compensate Ms C for not having the money. But said Ms C had gone into her 
overdraft when the hire car charges were taken. So she said that if Ms C had paid more than 
the value of 8% simple interest in overdraft charges then Advantage should compensate her 
for this. 
Our Investigator also acknowledged the previous £75 compensation and agreed this plus the 
additional £30, making a total of £105, was fair compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the incorrect information being given.
Advantage agreed to the increased compensation and said this was down to a calculation 
error and so didnt agree to the complaint being upheld. Our Investigator disagreed, she said 
the amount offered wasnt correct and said she had also recommended Advantage add 
interest to what it pays. Because of this, our Investigator said it was correct to uphold Ms Cs 
complaint. Ms C replied and said she wasnt aware it was a hire car at the time and so didnt 
think it was fair she was charged anything for it. 
As neither party agreed with our Investigator the complaint has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I address the merits of this complaint, I think its first important to set out the different
parties involved and what I can and cant consider in this complaint.
When Ms Cs car was in for repair, she was provided with a hire car, outside of her car 
insurance policy terms and conditions. Therefore, the provision of the hire car is not 
something Advantage are responsible for under the policy. When Ms C complained to 
Advantage, she raised concerns about the information given when raising concerns about 
the quality of repairs to her car. This means, in this decision, I can only consider the actions 
of Advantage when discussing the issues with the repairs. 
I understand Ms C has now raised a separate complaint about being provided with the hire 
car. As this is a separate complaint, I wont be commenting on that here. Also, while Ms C 
was calling to discuss issues with the repairs, whether the issue Ms C raised is accident 
related or not hasnt been considered in this complaint. This decision is only considering the 
hire car charges and whether Advantages actions when discussing the quality of repairs 
caused Ms C to incur additional hire car charges. 
Ive listened to the calls Ms C had with Advantage when discussing the issues with the 
repairs. In doing so, Im not persuaded it gave Ms C incorrect information about returning the 
hire car before 5 May. So, I dont think Advantage is responsible for Ms C returning it later 
than she should have before 5 May. 
Advantage agreed it gave incorrect information about returning the hire car which meant it 
was returned 5 days later then it would have been. Its agreed to pay 5 days hire to Ms C to 
compensate her for this and said it would pay £226.55 to Ms C. While I agree paying 5 days 
hire is fair and reasonable, Im not persuaded £226.55 is the fair amount to pay. Ms C has 
been charged £1,576.78 for 29 days hire. Therefore, 5 days hire amounts to £271.86 and so 
Advantage needs to pay this amount to Ms C, if not already done so. As Ms C has paid this 
to the hire car company already, and its an amount she shouldnt have paid, Advantage 
needs to add 8% simple interest per year calculated from the date Ms C paid the additional 
£271.86 until the date of settlement by Advantage, to compensate her for not having the 
money. Ms C has also mentioned she had to use her overdraft to pay this amount. So if Ms 
C has been charged more than the value of the 8% interest payment, Advantage would need 
to pay Ms C what she has been charged instead, subject to receiving reasonable evidence 
of the charges. 
I can also see Advantage has offered in total £105 compensation for the poor claim 
handling. Given that Im directing Advantage to pay Ms Cs financial loss due to the incorrect 
information, Im satisfied £105 compensation for the distress and inconvenience is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Ive considered Advantages points about the calculation being an error and it had agreed to 
5 days hire car charges. However, Im also directing Advantage to do more than it offered in 
the final response letter, as it didnt agree to pay interest. Ms C has said she feels shouldnt pay any of the hire car charges. While I understand Ms 
Cs comments about these, Im also aware there is a separate complaint about the provision 
of the hire car. In this complaint I can only consider the information given about returning the 
hire car in the calls when discussing the quality of the repairs to her car. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to:
1. Pay Ms C £271.86 for 5 days hire car costs between 5 May and 9 May. 
2. Pay Ms C 8% simple interest per year on the above amount, calculated from the date 
Ms C paid it until the date of settlement. If Ms C has been charged more than the 
value of 8% interest per year on this amount, for using her overdraft to pay it, then 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited needs to pay Ms C what she paid to use her 
overdraft instead of the 8% simple interest. 
3. Pay Ms C £105 for distress and inconvenience, if not already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman