DRN-3477179
The complaint
Mr F complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) imposed unfair 
charges for damage to a car at the end of his finance agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
The agreement which Mr F signed states:
When it is time to return your vehicle whether that is at the end of the period of hire or 
earlier (when requested to do so), you must return the vehicle in line with the Vehicle Return 
Standards.
When the car was returned one alloy wheel was damaged beyond the standards for normal 
wear and tear. This is clear from the video and photos supplied by the third party acting for 
MBFS. A charge of £427.02 was made by MBFS. The issue in dispute is the cause of that 
damage.
Mr F says he suffered a tyre malfunction or blowout and this led to the alloy wheel being 
damaged. He has said that this was due to a manufacturing fault. 
A response from the garage which fitted new tyres says:
The pictures show wear to the inner edges of both tyres and this is indicative of the wheel 
alignment being incorrect and out of specification which was corrected here at [X] once the 
replacement tyres had been fitted. It goes on to say:
On chasing with our supplier as to the date that they were sent off to the manufacturer the 
old casings were sent for disposal as the tyres were clearly worn to excess on the inner 
edges which would have caused the blowout to the tyre, and would not be a defect of the 
tyre or the construction of the tyres.
Given the evidence presented to me it is difficult for me to conclude that the cause of the 
malfunction was a manufacturing fault and therefore present when the car was acquired. 
That means I cannot safely say that the charge was wrongly imposed. The wheel was 
damaged and Mr F had agreed to pay for such damage when returning the car.
Our investigator has concluded that a second charge covering a dent on the left front door 
was wrongly imposed and having reviewed the report I am in agreement.
The only other charge was for excess mileage and I am satisfied that the car was returned 
having covered an additional 1,239 miles over the agreed limit and so I am satisfied that this 
charge is correct.
Putting things right
The business should remove the charge for the damage to the door.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to reduce the end of agreement charges by £130.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman