DRN-2625040
The complaint
Mr A complains that Skill Limited restricted access to his account and wont release his 
funds. 
What happened
On the 4 December 2019 Mr A opened an account with Skrill. On the 11 December 2019 
Skrill decided to end their relationship with Mr A, and immediately closed his account. 
At the time Mr A had just over $23,000 in his account. On the 13 December 2019 Skrill 
explained to Mr A what hed need to provide to allow them to release the funds  this 
included:
An identification document.
A photo of the identification document next to Mr As face.
A Bank statement for the past 90 days.
An explanation and evidence of the source of the funds. 
Mr A provided some documentation to Skrill, however they didnt think the documents were 
sufficient and refused to release his funds. Mr A wasnt happy with Skrills response so 
complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr As complaint, but they didnt uphold it. She 
explained that Skrill had relied upon their terms and conditions in restricting access and 
closing Mr As account. And he hadnt provided the documents theyd asked for. Mr A 
responded to our investigators view providing the documentation requested. Our 
investigator reviewed the documentation and spoke with Skrill  however the bank werent 
prepared to accept the documentation provided. And our investigator concluded the bank 
hadnt acted unfairly in refusing to release the funds. 
Mr A also provided a signed document confirming his identify from a solicitor. 
As Mr A didnt accept our investigators view, the case has been referred to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and Ill explain why below. 
As our investigator explained Skrill has important legal and regulatory obligations it must 
meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations dont terminate when an 
account is closed, and remain ongoing. To comply with these obligations Skrill may need to 
review an account or restrict a customers access. And if they dont comply with these 
obligations Skrill could face serious sanctions. 
To follow these requirements a bank is entitled to ask a customer more information about 
their use of an account including details about payments in and out of the account. Its not 
for this service to interfere with a banks processes. Instead its our role to identify if a bank 
has made any mistakes and put a customer back in the position theyd have been in if it 
hadnt happened. 
As part of their security checks and to meet its legal obligations Skrill needs to verify the 
identity of those operating accounts with them. The bank is entitled to put processes in place 
to ensure it meets its regulatory obligations. And its for Skrill to determine what evidence 
needs to be provided to meet these expectations. Ive reviewed the evidence provided by 
Mr A, in response to Skrills requests, and information provided by Skrill. Having done so I 
understand why Skrill had concerns and werent able to verify the documents Mr A provided. 
Its possible that Mr A has further evidence he can provide about the source of the funds. 
And is also able to provide verifiable identify documents. But, from looking at all the available 
evidence, I can understand why Skrill isnt satisfied by the identification Mr As provided. I 
understand this will be disappointing to Mr A but Im unable to conclude Skrill has treated 
him unfairly when it decided not to release the money. And I wont be asking the bank to do 
anything further here. 
Account closure and restriction:
Ive also considered Skrills decision to close Mr As account. I realise this will be 
disappointing to Mr A and I appreciate the closure of his account caused him inconvenience. 
But the bank can make commercial decisions about who it offers banking services to. They 
cant unfairly discriminate against a consumer. But they can decide they no longer want to 
do business with individuals. Thats because they have the commercial freedom to decide 
who theyd like to contract with. And Im satisfied that in Mr As case Skrill exercised its 
commercial freedom legitimately when it decided to close his account. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman