DRN-2278059
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complained to NCI Insurance Services Ltd (NCI) as appointed representatives 
of Jigsaw Insurance Services Plc that the premium for their pet insurance policy has been 
increased unfairly. 
Background
As the policy was taken in Mrs Fs name, I will only be referring to her in this decision. 
Mrs F took a lifetime pet insurance policy in 2016 to cover her dog. NCI are the 
administrators of the policy. They are not the underwriters. I understand Mrs F has 
complained to the underwriters about the way medical conditions have been recorded on the 
policy  I will not be looking at that in this decision. 
In 2019 Mrs F complained about the significant increase in her premium which I understand 
increased again, at renewal in 2020. She doesnt think the size of the increase is fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NCI are the administrators of Mrs Fs policy and not the underwriters  so they do not set the 
price of her policy or the way a condition is recorded. But they are responsible for the 
information given to Mrs F about her policy. 
When NCI sold the policy to Mrs F the relevant rules about what a business should do could 
be found in ICOBS Insurance: Conduct of Business sourcebook. Amongst other things, NCI 
needed to take reasonable steps to give customers appropriate information about a policy in 
good time and in a comprehensible form so that the customer can make an informed 
decision about the arrangements proposed. This includes drawing the customers attention 
to and highlighting the main provisions of the policy and the significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
Lifetime policies are usually more expensive than standard policies as they provide a
greater level of cover. But there are also different considerations surrounding the long-term
cost and cover for customers with these policies, as the cost doesnt stay the same for the 
life of the policy and will generally increase each year at renewal, as the pet gets older and 
the cost of veterinary treatment goes up. The cost can also increase due to claims, changes 
in insurance premium tax or if an insurer re-evaluates the risk. Theres no limit to how high 
the cost could be. 
I recognise it wouldnt be possible for NCI to tell Mrs F exactly what was going to happen 
with the price of her policy. But I think she needed clear information about the potential long-
term cost implications, particularly what would happen as her dog got older and if she made 
a claim. This is so she could understand that she might end up in the position she is now in  
with a policy thats increased to an amount much more than the initial cost and is becoming 
too expensive for her. As the policy was lifetime insurance, she understandably expected to 
keep it for the rest of her dogs life. She needed clear information to properly understand the 
policy she was agreeing to  so she could make an informed choice. 
But, having looked at the information NCI gave Mrs F, I dont think they gave her clear 
enough information about the potential long-term costs.
NCI have provided a copy of the policy document Mrs F would have been given in 2016. I 
can see it says when further periods of insurance are offered the premium may change. But I 
dont think Mrs F should have had to read through a long document of closely worded text to 
find this information out  this is significant information that should have been drawn to her 
attention. And even if it had, I dont think theres enough information to make the long-term 
risk that the cost of the policy could rise by a significant amount clear. 
If Mrs F had been given better information about the policy, it wouldve meant that she 
wasnt so surprised or upset when the cost increased as it did  instead this would have 
been something she would have known could happen and have prepared for. 
She is now in a position she didnt expect to be in  with her policy becoming unaffordable 
and so having to make the difficult decision about what to do. Its unlikely Mrs F will be able 
to find a policy elsewhere that will cover any condition related to the claim she has made. So 
I think NCI should pay her £350 for the trouble and upset caused by not providing her with 
clear information. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Jigsaw Insurance Services Plc should pay Mrs F £350 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman