DRN-3166366
The complaint
Mr H complains about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has dealt with a claim he made 
under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H was involved in an accident, UKI reviewed the damage caused and said that Mr Hs car 
would be deemed a total loss. It said it would cost more to repair than the cars value. It 
valued the car at £700 and after deducting an excess of £200 and salvage cost of £70, it 
paid £430 to Mr H. 
Mr H complained to UKI as he was unhappy he wasnt provided with a courtesy car during 
the claim, the value that has been paid for his car and how the claim was dealt with. UKI 
considered the complaint, it explained Mr H wasnt entitled to a courtesy car as his car was 
treated as a total loss. However, it had recognised Mr Hs circumstances and arranged a 
hire car for him. It didnt change the value of the vehicle but recognised there was a small 
delay in arranging for the car to be assessed so it offered Mr H £100 compensation. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and let Mr H know she thought UKI had acted fair 
and reasonably. Mr H disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
The policy says that UKI will pay the market value of the vehicle at the time of loss.
My role isnt to decide the exact value of Mr Hs car, it is to determine if UKI has 
acted fairly when coming to the value it has. UKI has used the motor trade guides to 
determine the value of the vehicle considering its age, condition and mileage. The 
value of £700 is within the range of those guides, so I think it is a fair and reasonable 
reflection of the market value of the vehicle. 
I realise Mr H thinks his car was worth more based on conversations hed had; 
however, we find motor trade guides to be more representative of the market as they 
reflect recent selling prices of the vehicle type in question. 
Mr H agreed to pay a £200 excess when taking out his policy. It is fair this was 
deducted from the settlement before it was paid to Mr H. I understand the third party 
in the case has disputed it was responsible for the accident. So, in this case the 
excess is correctly payable.
Mr H wanted to keep the car. UKI has demonstrated it would have received £70 from 
its salvage agent, so it is fair it charges this amount to Mr H and deducts it from the 
settlement.
Mr H wasnt entitled to a courtesy car under his policy as his car was being 
considered as a total loss. I think UKI acted reasonably by arranging one for him in 
his specific circumstances
As UKI has acknowledged there were some delays in the progression of the case. I 
think its offer of £100 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman