DRN-4257946
The complaint
Mr M complains about QIC Europe Ltd and their decision to decline the claim he made on 
his home insurance policy for the loss of a necklace. Mr M also complains about the length 
of time the claim took to reach a conclusion.
What happened
Mr M held a home insurance policy, underwritten by QIC. This policy included cover for a 
specified piece of jewellery, valued at £5,000. Unfortunately, in September 2022, Mr Ms wife 
lost this jewellery, a necklace, after wearing it to their local church. So, Mr M contacted QIC 
to make a claim.
Mr Ms policy was arranged by an intermediary, who Ill refer to as P. But as QIC are the 
insurer of the policy, they are responsible for the claim decision. So, for ease of reference, Ill 
refer to any actions taken by P, or QIC, as if they were taken by QIC throughout the 
decision.
QIC considered Mr Ms claim. And they instructed an independent jeweller, who Ill refer to 
as L to investigate and validate the claim. L provided their report of 7 October, and 
recommended that further enquiries be undertaken before the claim could be accepted due 
to their concerns about the proof of ownership of the jewellery.
QIC considered this report. And they asked Mr M to provide photographic evidence of the 
necklace being worn. But Mr M was unable to provide this information and instead offered to 
provide witness statements from family members, or members of his church, to support his 
claim. QIC didnt accept this and, as no photograph could be provided, QIC didnt think they 
were able to substantiate the claim. So, they declined it. Mr M was unhappy about this, so he 
raised a complaint.
Mr M didnt think QICs decision to decline the claim was a fair one. He thought his offer of 
obtaining witness statements was a fair one. And he thought the photo he had provided, 
alongside the proof of purchase he sent, showed he did have the necklace in his 
possession. So, he wanted the claim to be accepted. And he wanted to be compensated for 
the length of time the claim had taken.
QIC responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought they had declined the 
claim fairly, based on Ls report and the terms and conditions of the policy. So, they didnt 
think they needed to do anything more. Mr M remained unhappy with this response, so he 
referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it in part. They thought QIC had acted 
fairly, and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, when declining the claim. So, 
they didnt think QIC should reverse their original decision and accept it. But they did think 
QIC couldve done more to progress the claim in a timely manner and keep Mr M updated. 
So, our investigator recommended that QIC pay Mr M £100 to recognise the inconvenience 
and upset this wouldve caused.
QIC accepted this recommendation. But Mr M didnt. He remained unhappy with QICs 
decision to decline the claim. And he thought his offer of obtaining witness statements from 
his church or family members to prove he owned the necklace was a fair one. So, he 
maintained his belief that the claim decline should be overturned. As Mr M didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr M. I recognise he 
purposefully specified an item of jewellery on his insurance policy to ensure he was 
protected financially in the situation where this jewellery was lost, so he was able to fund the 
purchase of a replacement. So, when Mr M lost the necklace and QIC declined his claim, I 
can understand the upset this wouldve created, considering the financial impact financing a 
replacement would no doubt have.
But for me to say QIC should reverse their decision to decline the claim, I first need to be 
satisfied QIC have done something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied that QIC acted 
outside of the policy terms and conditions when declining the claim. Or, if I think QIC did act 
within these, Id need to be satisfied that QIC acted unfairly in some other way when 
reaching this decision. And I dont think I can say thats the case here.
I think its important to note that, when a customer makes a claim for an item thats been lost 
or stolen, an insurer such as QIC are allowed, and expected, to take reasonable steps to 
substantiate and validate the claim. And in this situation, I note QIC instructed L, an expert in 
jewellery, to complete this validation on their behalf which falls within standard industry 
practice. 
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mr M held. And these explain clearly under 
Mr Ms obligations that he would be expected to At your own expense, we may ask you to 
provide us with all information, evidence and help we need to investigate the claim, including 
written estimates, reports and proof of ownership and value, which may include original 
receipts, invoices, bank or credit card statements.
And the policy terms go onto explain that It is your responsibility to prove any loss, so we 
recommend that you keep photographs, guarantee cards, instruction booklets and a full 
description of your valuable items.
In this situation, Mr M provided proof of purchase. But this invoice named the purchaser as 
someone different to both Mr M and his wife. And I note Mr M was unable to provide a 
photograph of either himself or his wife with, or wearing, the necklace that was lost. So, the 
only information L, and QIC, held regarding the necklace at the time the claim was declined 
was that a necklace had been purchased by someone else. And that Mr M had a photograph 
of the necklace in its show box. But crucially, this photograph didnt show the necklace as 
being in Mr Ms possession.
Because of this, L recommended that further information be sought before the claim could 
be validated. And Mr M has confirmed he was unable to provide any additional information, other than potential witness statements from family members, or members of his church.
While I do understand Mr Ms belief these witness statements can be relied upon, I dont 
think I can say QIC have acted unfairly when deciding this information alone wouldnt be 
enough. This is because Mr M would have a relationship with his family members, and the 
members of his church. So, I dont think QIC could be satisfied beyond reasonable doubt 
that these witness statements were unbiased in any way. And I think another insurer 
wouldve taken the same approach, in the same situation. 
I think the terms and conditions of the policy set out clearly the type of information QIC would 
accept to satisfy them of the ownership of the necklace. And I think there were several 
options available to Mr M, including bank statements, photos, and receipts. As Mr M has 
been unable to provide this suitable evidence, I dont think I can say QIC have acted unfairly, 
based on the recommendations of L, when deciding to decline the claim stating the 
ownership of the necklace couldnt be validated. And I think they acted within the terms and 
conditions of the policy when doing so. Because of this, I dont think QIC need to do anything 
more regarding this aspect of the complaint.
But I do note our investigator thought QIC delayed the claim unnecessarily. And, that QICs 
communication with Mr M couldve been better. QIC have accepted our investigators finding 
regarding this and so, Im satisfied QIC have accepted they did act unfairly here. Because of 
this, I dont intend to discuss the merits of this complaint aspect any further. Instead, Ive 
turned to what I think QIC should do to put things right. 
Putting things right
When thinking about what QIC should do to put things right, any award or direction I make is 
intended to place Mr M back in the position he wouldve been in, had QIC acted fairly in the 
first place.
In this situation, had QIC acted fairly, I think the claim would still have been declined as I 
think the information Mr M was able to provide wouldve been the same. But I do think QIC 
wouldve reached this decision sooner. And, had QIC done so, I dont think Mr M wouldve 
need to chase QIC for updates as regularly as hed needed to.
I think it wouldve taken time and effort for Mr M to chase QIC for an update on his claim. 
And during this period, I think it wouldve been both worrying and frustrating for Mr M, who 
wanted to understand whether he was going to receive a settlement that would allow him to 
replace the lost necklace. So, I do think QIC should compensate Mr M for this.
Our investigator recommended QIC pay Mr M £100 to recognise this upset and 
inconvenience. And I think this payment is a fair one, that falls in line with our services 
approach and what I wouldve directed, had it not already been put forward.
I think it fairly compensates Mr M for the delays he experienced during the claim process. 
And the fact he needed to chase QIC for updates during this time, rather than QIC 
contacting him proactively. But I also think it reasonably reflects my decision that the claim 
was declined fairly. And, that QIC did take reasonable steps to try and validate the claim, 
instructing L and allowing Mr M the chance to provide further information even though he 
was ultimately unable to do so. So, I am directing QIC to pay Mr M £100 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint about QIC Europe Ltd and I direct 
them to take the following action:Pay Mr M £100 compensation to recognise the delays and lack of communication he 
encountered during the claim process.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman