DRN-4269148
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) have unfairly declined their 
subsidence claim and voided their residential property owners policy.
Any reference to Mr and Mrs C or Covea includes respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known between parties, so Ive summarised events.
In August 2022 Mr and Mrs C took out a residential property owners insurance policy 
on a rental property they own.
In November 2022 Mr and Mrs C say they noticed cracking at the property and made 
a subsidence claim to Covea, providing it with a structural engineers report (SER).
In April 2023 Covea rejected the claim on the basis it said there was pre-existing 
damage to the home, and Mr and Mrs C had failed to make a fair presentation of risk 
 including cracking to the property and its upkeep and maintenance. It said it would 
not have insured the property had these facts been disclosed, so it said a 
misrepresentation had taken place, but it would refund Mr and Mrs Cs premiums.
Mr and Mrs C say Covea hadnt relied on appropriate evidence. They said the 
cracking had likely worsened over the time Covea was investigating, and theyd lost 
rental income as a result.
Covea considered a complaint and awarded £50 compensation for delays. But stood 
by its outcome of the claim. It said images of the home from up to 8 years prior 
showed damage to the outside of the property. And it said the SER highlighted the 
property wasnt maintained or redecorated on a regular basis. 
One of our Investigators looked into what happened and didnt uphold it, saying:
oMr and Mrs C had failed to make a fair presentation of risk when taking out 
the policy  reflected in the questions asked by Covea that were inaccurately 
answered. 
oCovea had demonstrated it would never have offered cover if the condition of 
the property had been fairly presented.
oUnder the relevant Act, Covea was able to void the policy as it had done.
o£50 was sufficient compensation in light of the delays from Covea.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed.
oOnline images relied upon only show cracking some six years prior to the 
inception of the policy. So, this should not be relied upon.
oThe questions answered were accurate at the time  and there was no 
cracking when the policy was taken out.
oThe property was maintained and the SER comments had no bearing on a 
subsidence claim so should not be relied upon by Covea.
The Investigator looked again. He said he had taken into account online images, but 
mainly relied on the SER comments and images provided by Mr and Mrs C  quoting 
many parts of the report that he said indicated significant cracking and issues across 
the property. The onus sat with Mr and Mrs C to present the material facts  which he 
believed they had failed to do. 
Mr and Mrs C still disagreed, saying they wouldve had no expertise in whether the cracks 
present were subsidence related. And asked for an Ombudsmans decision. So, the matter 
has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Under the Insurance Act 2015 a policyholder has a duty to make a fair presentation 
of risk to an insurer when taking out the policy. This means they have to disclose:
oeverything they know, or ought to know, that would influence an insurers 
decision to insure a risk and on what terms; or
oenough information to put an insurer on notice that it needs to make further 
enquiries about potential material circumstances.
In this case, Covea says Mr and Mrs C failed to present a fair presentation of risk.
When determining if Mr and Mrs C met the above outlined obligations Ive considered 
the questions put to Mr and Mrs C. This includes a statement which states:
Neither this or any adjacent property show any visible signs of cracking
This was answered Agree. Mr and Mrs C have since said they standby the 
accuracy of this statement as there was no cracking when the policy was taken out.
So, Ive looked at the available evidence. The SER provided by Mr and Mrs C. This 
was sent in mid-November 2022 and discusses hairline cracks on all walls including 
doors and window openings, as well as ceilings of front rooms and elsewhere. It also 
discusses significant vertical and diagonal cracking in external basement walls and 
elsewhere. Ive been given no other reports that undermine this and from the photos 
Ive been provided its clear the damage is extensive.
Mr and Mrs C have indicated they wouldve been in no position to determine if such 
cracks were subsidence related. But the question doesnt discuss subsidence related 
cracking  it specifies visible cracking. And here the evidence supports that there 
was cracking across the property, and in places these cracks were significant. So, 
this doesnt change my mind. 
Given the timeframe between the policy being taken out and this report being 
completed, and the extent of the damage described which is clearly extensive, Im 
satisfied Coveas position that the damage was present when the policy was taken 
out is reasonable. And simply, that the question related to visible cracking was most 
likely not answered correctly by Mr and Mrs C in light of the evidence available as a 
result. So Im persuaded a misrepresentation has taken place and Mr and Mrs C did 
not present a fair presentation of risk as they were required to. 
Covea has provided this Service with evidence that shows it wouldnt have insured 
the property if it had known about the cracking. So, Im satisfied the misrepresentation in question is a qualifying one that wouldve impacted Coveas 
decision to insure them. 
Other evidence has been discussed  such as online records, and while Ive 
considered all of these Im focused on the SER as Im satisfied this is sufficient in 
Covea fairly reaching its decision to void the policy. 
In line with the relevant law I would typically then have to consider whether the 
qualifying breach was deliberate, reckless, or careless. This is relevant as it will 
determine what remedies are available to Covea  and in essence whether it is able 
to retain premiums. In this case Covea has returned the premiums to Mr and Mrs C 
so I see no benefit to making further findings on this matter. So Im satisfied Covea 
has fairly voided the policy and handled this in line with the relevant law. 
As Im satisfied Covea has fairly voided the policy, the outcome of the claim has also 
now fallen away. Covea has made an offer of £50 to account for delays in reaching 
its outcome. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman