DRN-4374169
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct, wont refund money 
they lost when they were victims of a scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
Mr P transferred two payments of £10,000 from a joint account he held with Mrs P, on 12 
April 2017 and 11 September 2018, to a firm Ill refer to as F. The funds were to be invested 
in five-year bonds held in Mrs Ps name. Mr and Mrs P received interest payments from the 
bonds but they stopped in April 2019. No further payments were made to Mr and Mrs P and 
F subsequently went into liquidation in March 2022. 
Mr P complained to first direct in December 2022 saying these payments were made as a 
result of being a victim of sophisticated Authorised Push Payment (APP) fraud. He said he 
didnt recall being questioned about these payments, nor did he receive any warning that it 
might be fraud. And so, Mr P said first directs failure to intervene and warn him the 
payment(s) might be fraudulent was in contravention of BSI PAS 17271:2017 and, also, 
demonstrated a failure to observe FCA Principles 2 and 6. Mr P added that he and his wife 
took care to investigate the investment opportunity as far as they reasonably could before 
making the payments. And so, he requested reimbursement for the loss theyd incurred from 
the scam. 
First direct didnt uphold the complaint. They explained they couldnt agree Mr and Mrs P 
had been the victim of an APP scam as theyd received returns from F  who were listed on 
Companies House prior to being put in administration. Because of this, first direct felt it most 
likely that this was an investment that had gone wrong and so it was a civil dispute. They 
advised Mr and Mrs P to contact the administrator, the Citizens Advice Bureau or take legal 
advice to try and recover their funds. first direct further added that they couldnt raise a claim 
under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM). 
Mr and Mrs P referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. They explained 
that, while they did receive some investment returns, they believed theyd fallen victim to a 
Ponzi scheme  and so the returns werent from profits but money from other investors. And 
they set out why F was fraudulent, rather than a failed investment, including referencing 
statements made the by the administrators. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint but she didnt think first direct had to do anything 
further. She said she couldnt say with certainty whether F was a scam  although she 
acknowledged that Mr P discovering the opportunity from a cold call suggested it might be. 
And she understood why Mr and Mrs P may have believed the opportunity was genuine 
given the literature provided by F appeared legitimate, as well as initially receiving 
investment returns. But, in any event, she didnt think first direct couldve reasonably 
prevented Mr and Mrs Ps losses. This is because, beyond providing an online warning when 
the payments were made, she didnt think the payments were unusual enough for first direct 
to have identified them as suspicious  thereby giving them sufficient reason to think Mr and 
Mrs P were at risk of financial harm from fraud. And so, she wouldnt have expected first 
direct to have carried out further checks  such as contacting Mr and Mrs P  before 
processing the payments. 
Mr and Mrs P disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
At which point, I think I should note that Im aware Mr and Mrs P requested additional time to 
provide further evidence and representations for the Ombudsmans consideration. Their 
reason for the request was because they, along with others, have engaged with a specialist 
legal firm and are expecting a barristers opinion on the matter which they feel should be 
taken into consideration before a final decision is reached. And at the time of making the 
request, they didnt know when the legal review would be completed. 
Our Investigator declined Mr and Mrs Ps request but explained that the barristers opinion  
or any other evidence  could be submitted whilst the case was awaiting an Ombudsmans 
review. Ive given further thought to Mr and Mrs Ps request but having done so, Im satisfied 
I have enough information to proceed with making my final decision on their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry Mr and Mrs P have lost a significant sum of money and I dont underestimate the 
impact this has had on them. Im aware Mr and Mrs P have provided a lot of information for 
my consideration in support of their complaint  particularly in respect of evidencing that F 
was acting fraudulently. Ive given careful consideration to all the evidence provided. And so, 
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs P that if I dont mention a particular point, its not because I 
havent considered it, but Ive focussed instead on what I believe to be important to the 
outcome of this complaint. Having done so, and while I know this wont be the outcome 
Mr and Mrs P are hoping for, I dont think first direct has acted unfairly by not refunding their 
loss for similar reasons to our Investigator. 
An area of contention here is whether Mr and Mrs P have been the victims of a scam or, as 
first direct believe, the matter is a civil dispute as their investment with F simply went wrong. 
But I dont I need to make a finding as to whether Mr and Mrs P were victims of a scam, and 
Im not going to. This is because, even if they were, I wouldnt be reaching a different 
outcome on their complaint. If this wasnt a scam, but rather a bad investment, then there 
wouldnt have been any need for first direct to intervene or delay processing genuine 
payments. And even if I were to hypothetically accept Mr and Mrs P were the victims of a 
scam, I dont think first direct are responsible for the loss theyve suffered. Ill explain why.
Ive thought about the CRM code which can offer a potential means of obtaining a refund 
following APP scams. But the CRM code didnt come into effect until 28 May 2019 and 
doesnt apply retrospectively. This means, as Mr and Mrs Ps payments were made before 
this, theyre not covered under the CRM code. Ive therefore considered whether first direct 
should reimburse Mr and Mrs P under any of their other obligations
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that their customer authorises them to make. It isnt disputed that 
Mr P knowingly made the payments from the first direct account and so, Im satisfied he 
authorised them. Therefore, under the Payment Services Regulations and the terms of their 
account, first direct are expected to process the payments and Mr and Mrs P are presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance.
I have however taken into account regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and good industry practice. This includes, but isnt limited to:
The British Standards Institute code of practice PAS 17271.FCA Principles for Businesses 2 and 6, and SYSC 3.2.6R.
The FSAs (the predecessor to the FCA) thematic review paper of 2012, Banks 
defences against investment fraud  Detecting perpetrators and protecting victims.
Im therefore satisfied that first direct ought to have been monitoring accounts to counter 
various risks including preventing fraud and scams. To do this, first direct shouldve had 
systems in place to identify unusual transactions, or other signs, that its customers were at 
risk of fraud. And carried out additional checks before processing a payment or, declined the 
payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud.
Here, Im aware that first direct provided Mr P with an online warning when he made the 
payments. It said:
Take care when sending money
This could be a scam
Fraudsters can offer you what appears to be a genuine opportunity with high returns. 
They can try to pressure you to invest your savings or transfer your current pension 
to a new scheme.
Take time to talk to someone you trust who is not involved with the 
investment.
You must independently research who youre sending money to.
Company names can be cloned. Its vital you contact the company on an 
independently verified number. 
Check the company is genuine and authorised by the Financial Conduct 
Authority
The warning went on to explain that by choosing to continue with the payment, Mr P was 
agreeing hed read it and was happy to proceed. And that he accepted first direct may not be 
able to recover the money if its sent to a fraudsters account. 
Although Mr P cant recall receiving any online warning, I think first direct acted reasonably 
by providing it - highlighting the risk of it being a scam and setting out some of the steps he 
could take to protect himself. It seems Mr P continued to make the payments despite this 
warning. That said, Ive also considered whether first direct shouldve done more than this. 
Ive therefore looked at whether the payment instructions given by Mr P to first direct were 
unusual enough, in relation to Mr and Mrs Ps typical account activity, to have expected first 
direct to have identified they were at risk of financial harm from fraud  thereby warranting 
further intervention such as a conversation with Mr P before releasing the payment(s).
Having reviewed Mr and Mrs Ps account statements, Ive seen that they made a legitimate 
£10,000 transaction the day prior to the first disputed payment. And payments of several 
thousand pounds werent uncommon, nor were investment related transactions unusual. 
Because of this and taking into consideration that there is a balance for first direct to find 
between allowing customers to be able to use their account and questioning transactions to 
confirm theyre legitimate, I dont think the two £10,000 payments to F were so unusual or 
out of character to have given first direct sufficient reason to believe Mr and Mrs P were at 
risk of financial harm from fraud. It follows that I wouldnt have expected first direct to have 
intervened  beyond the online warning they provided - before processing them.Im sorry to hear Mr and Mrs P have suffered a significant financial loss as a result of what 
happened. But it would only be fair for me to direct first direct to refund their loss if I thought 
the bank was responsible  and Im not persuaded that this was the case. For the above 
reasons, I think first direct has acted fairly and so Im not going to tell them to do anything 
further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman