DRN-4088371
The complaint
Mr B complained because Revolut Ltd refused to refund him for eight transactions totalling 
£42,482.27. He said theyd been made when his drink had been spiked when he was out, 
and he had no recollection of the night.
What happened
On 7 April 2022,  Mr B contacted Revolut by chat. He said there were a lot of transactions on 
his account which he hadnt authorised. He told Revolut that someone had gained access to 
his bank account, and had sent a large sum of money from there to his Revolut account. 
Theyd then made payments from his Revolut account, and Mr B said he wanted these 
cancelled.
Revolut blocked Mr Bs card, and said that the payments were currently still pending, and he 
should get in touch again if the transactions went through. Revolut sent Mr B its chargeback 
form, with instructions how to complete it.
Mr B submitted the form, and Revolut asked him for an account of the events that led to the 
transactions being made.
Mr B said hed been in a bar until 1am, having a few drinks which he believed had been 
spiked. He had no recollection of leaving the bar, and had woken up in a different part of the 
city at 11am. Mr B told Revolut that his bank had told him the transfer from his bank account 
to Revolut had been made using face ID. He said that his bank had stopped the transactions 
after one, whereas Revolut had allowed more. Mr B disputed eight transactions from his 
Revolut account to a number of different recipients, totalling £42,482.27.  
On 27 April, Revolut told Mr B that the review had been completed, and the funds had been 
reinstated in Mr Bs account.
On 4 May, Revolut asked Mr B for the police report, and also asked whether hed opened a 
complaint with his bank, and if so what the outcome had been. Mr B said his bank was still 
reviewing disputed transactions on Mr Bs bank debit card, but had said it wouldnt be 
refunding the money which had been transferred from his bank to his Revolut account. 
Revolut also asked about progress with the police report.
In early June, Mr B asked why there was a further review, because hed been told the review 
had been completed. He didnt get a response and on 16 June he complained.
On 20 July, Revolut issued its final response to Mr Bs complaint. It apologised for the long 
delays in the chat messages. But it said that it had been able to verify that the transactions 
had been authorised at the point of sale with the physical use of the card with its chip, and 
Mr Bs PIN. So it wasnt a valid chargeback and Revolut had rejected the claim. Revolut paid 
Mr B £200 compensation in recognition of the inconvenience hed received from its 
miscommunication.
Mr B wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. He said Revolut hadnt explained why 
theyd refunded him, but had then taken until July to conclude it couldnt refund him 
because the transactions had been authorised. He said the card transactions were card 
present transactions in different parts of the world, and as Revolut hadnt explained why 
theyd allowed these in different locations, he didnt believe it had robust controls in place to 
keep his money safe. He said his average transactions were lower, and the £200 
compensation didnt cover the £42,482.27 which had left his account. Mr said he wanted a 
refund, plus 10% of the disputed amount as compensation.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. She said shed seen technical evidence to 
show Mr Bs card and PIN had been used to make the transactions. As theyd been funded 
by a transfer into Mr Bs account from his bank account, any fraudster would have needed 
access to Mr Bs online banking with both his bank and with Revolut. Mr B had said his apps 
were protected by face ID, and a passcode to which no-one else had access. She said the 
evidence suggested that Mr B had authorised the transactions. The investigator also thought 
£200 was fair and reasonable compensation for the inconvenience Revolut caused Mr B.
Mr B didnt agree. 
- He said that the card transactions had been card present transactions in different 
parts of the world and he wouldnt have been able to travel to them all. He said that 
the card scheme rules say that there must be a correct address for wherever a 
merchant does business;
- Two transactions had subsequently been refunded, which Mr B said was because 
theyd been unauthorised. So he said the others should be refunded too;
- Mr B asked what evidence there was that chip and pin had been used, other than an 
electronic footprint which he said could be circumvented by a point of sale terminal;
- He said hed only had nine previous card-present transactions since hed opened the 
account in December 2019. So Revolut should have realised the disputed 
transactions had been a fraud, account takeover, or money laundering. Mr B said the 
card scheme rules said that card issuers such as Revolut had to monitor suspicious 
transactions, but it hadnt done so.
The investigator answered Mr Bs comments, but Mr B said it didnt show that Revolut had 
taken the necessary steps to keep his account and money safe. He said that if Revolut had 
blocked the transactions, there wouldnt have been any loss. He asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regulations 
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions, and the relevant regulations here 
are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the 
customer didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise 
them. 
A payment service provider can choose to use a chargeback as one way of dealing with a 
dispute of this nature, but ultimately its the requirements of the Payment Services 
Regulations, not the individual chargeback scheme rules, which are key to the outcome 
here.The regulations also say that account holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments 
under certain circumstances  for example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to 
such an extent that it can be termed gross negligence.
So what I have to decide is whether its more likely than not that Mr B authorised the 
transactions himself, or some third party did so without his authorisation. 
Who authorised the transactions?
Ive looked at the technical evidence. This shows that each one of the disputed transactions 
was authenticated using the genuine card and Mr Bs correct PIN.
I dont agree with Mr Bs statement that electronic records which indicate that a payment has 
been carried out by Chip and PIN, can easily be circumvented at the merchants terminal.  
The technology is very advanced and there has never been a known instance of a chip 
being duplicated or faked. And in any case the multiple retailers who took payments in this 
case would have no reason to try to fake the records. 
The technical evidence also shows that Mr Bs Revolut app was accessed via Face ID, and 
passcode, on numerous occasions while the disputed transactions were being carried out. 
So Mr Bs unique personal biometric authentication and the correct passcode, were 
successfully entered multiple times.
Mr B told Revolut that the transactions which had come from his bank, had also been carried 
out using Face ID.
I recognise that Mr B told Revolut he remembered nothing about the relevant time because 
he believed his drink had been spiked. But I think its very unlikely that in these 
circumstances, his unique personal biometric Face ID could have been successfully used. A 
third partys face wouldnt have been accepted by the system, and if Mr B were unconscious 
as a result of being drugged, its very unlikely that it would have recognised his face either.  
Ive seen no failed log-in attempts on the technical evidence, just multiple successful log-ins. 
Id expect there to have been lots of failed attempts if Mr B were unconscious with his eyes 
closed.
Also, Mr Bs correct passcode was used, and unless Mr B had failed to keep this secure by 
telling someone this code, or writing it down, its unlikely that any third party fraudster could 
have known this. There are 10,000 possible combinations of a four-digit code, so it couldnt 
have been guessed. If Mr B had written it down, this is likely to be gross negligence under 
the Regulations. 
Mr B also said that he couldnt have authorised the eight transactions in person himself, 
because the transactions were card present in different parts of the world. But the 
recorded head office for a recipient organisation isnt necessarily the same as the location 
where the transaction took place, so Im not persuaded by this argument.
Taking the technical evidence into account, I think its more likely than not that Mr B 
authorised the transactions himself.
Mr Bs further points
Ive dealt with most of Mr Bs points above, but there are a couple of others in his response 
to the investigators view, which Ill deal with here. - It doesnt make any difference that two transactions were subsequently refunded. 
Theres no evidence to indicate that Mr B is correct when he says that the reason 
they were refunded was that the card scheme agreed that Mr B hadnt authorised 
them. In any case, as Ive set out above, what matters in reaching my decision is 
whether I think its more likely than not that Mr B authorised the payments himself. 
For the reasons above, Ive found that its more likely than not that he did. 
- Mr B said hed only had nine previous card-present transactions since hed opened 
the account in December 2019, so Revolut should have realised the transactions had 
been fraudulent and should have prevented them. I wouldnt expect Revolut to have 
intervened solely on the basis of whether the transactions were card-present or not. 
Banks have an obligation to process the payments its customers authorise it to 
make. Theres a balance between intervening to prevent fraud, and the risk of 
unnecessarily inconveniencing or delaying legitimate transactions. I would expect a 
banks systems to take into account whether transactions were out of character and 
unusual. This uses a range of features, and as a security issue the exact algorithm 
wouldnt be made public. But Id expect it to include, for instance, whether the 
amount of the payments was out of character and unusual. So I looked at the 
transaction history on Mr Bs Revolut account. There are many transactions of 
similar, or considerably larger, transactions on his account. So I cant say that I think 
the eight transactions totalling £42,482.27 were out of character or unusual for Mr Bs 
account.   
Revoluts customer service
The chat messages show that on 27 April, Revolut told Mr B that its review had been 
completed, and the funds had been reinstated in Mr Bs account. Despite this, it then started 
asking more questions from 4 May onwards. In early June, Mr B asked why there was a 
further review when hed been told it had been completed, and he didnt get an answer and 
complained on 16 June. He didnt get a reply until 20 July.
Revoluts reply to Mr Bs complaint was within the eight weeks allowed for a complaint 
response. But I find that it was misleading that Revolut credited Mr Bs account with the 
disputed amounts on 27 April and didnt tell him that this was a temporary credit until it had 
completed its review. The normal chargeback process is to tell a customer a temporary 
credit has been given, which will be taken back if the review outcome isnt in the customers 
favour. But here, Revolut told Mr B that it had completed its review. Revolut was entitled to 
review the transactions further, but it would have been disappointing for Mr B to have 
believed the matter had been concluded in his favour, when it hadnt. So I consider that 
Revolut should pay Mr B some compensation for this loss of expectations. I find that £200 is 
fair and reasonable for this. Revolut has already paid Mr B £200 so there is no more to pay. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman