DRN-3921664
The complaint
Mr N complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) have unfairly refused to refund
money he lost as part of an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. In summary, Mr Ns wife was in contact with a someone who it later turned out 
was a scammer. The person in question said they worked for a company I will call C. This 
broker traded on behalf of Mr Ns wife, using remote access to her computer. After seeing 
the profits that his wife was making in her trading account. Mr N then made the following 
transactions to set up his own trading account with C using his debit card;
Transaction 
NumberDate Merchant Amount Running Total
1 25/11/2021 Mercuryo £3,302.83 £3,302.83
2 25/11/2021 Mercuryo £3,227.77 £6,530.60
3 02/12/2021 Mercuryo £2,793.84 £9,324.44
4 02/12/2021 Mercuryo £2,491.80 £11,816.24
5 02/12/2021 Mercuryo £1,208.15 £13,024.39
Between transaction 2 and 3 there was an, attempt to withdraw funds from the trading 
platform but was told that further payments had to be made to cover commission costs. 
Subsequently payments 3,4 and 5 were made to allow money to be withdrawn. Shortly after 
transaction 5, Mr Ns wife was contacted by a scammer purporting to be from HMRC asking 
for a payment to cover a tax liability. They called HMRC and were told that it would not ask 
for payments over the phone. This made them realise that they had potentially been 
scammed and when they were unable to withdraw funds from C, they complained to Monzo.
When Monzo refused to refund the money he had lost, Mr Ns complaint was brought to 
this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought Monzo should have gone further and 
intervened when transaction 2 was attempted. The investigator thought that the scam would 
have likely been prevented from this point if Monzo had contacted Mr N and asked probing 
questions about the nature of the payments he was making. Monzo did not agree and 
therefore the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Mr N authorised the disputed payments he made (where his funds 
were subsequently transferred on to the scammers from his crypto wallet). The payments 
were requested by him using his legitimate security credentials provided by Monzo, and the 
starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in 
order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Monzo should have done more to prevent Mr N from     
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, 
if it was particularly out of character.
From what I have been provided, it does seem that the first two transactions were flagged 
and challenged by Monzo for additional checks. It appears that these checks were to make 
sure that the payments had been authorised.
I think that this additional check was sufficient for transaction 1, as it was a one-off payment 
at that time and was not sufficiently large to necessarily prompt further intervention from 
Monzo on its own. But the transaction 2 I think should have prompted further queries as it 
happened so shortly after the first payment. And two payments that close together to a new 
international payee was out character from what I can see for Mr Ns account. I think that 
Monzo ought to have gone further and spoken to Mr N to find out more about the nature of 
the transaction he was making, before allowing it to be processed, rather than simply asking 
him to confirm if he had authorised the payment.
I think its likely that a scam warning would have prevented Mr N from going any further, as 
there were several indications that he was being scammed, which Monzo ought reasonably 
to have been aware of (particularly those involving crypto).
If Monzo had contacted Mr N and asked him further questions and for more of the context 
surrounding the payments, I think its likely he would have explained what he was doing and 
that he was allowing a broker to trade on his behalf with funds that were going to be 
forwarded from his crypto account. He would likely have said that the broker had been given 
remote access to his computer to allow these trades to occur. Monzo should have 
recognised these circumstances of being indicative of a scam and have acted to provide Mr 
N with a meaningful warning.
Overall, Im satisfied that a warning to Mr N from his trusted bank would have probably led 
him to discover various bad reviews about C. That said though, even if Mr N had not worked 
out that the broker he was talking to was fraudulent, it is likely that a warning would have at 
least alerted him to the common issues arising in relation to crypto scams, which in turn 
would have revealed the truth behind the scammers representations. This would have 
probably stopped Mr N in his tracks. So, but for Monzos failure to act on clear triggers of 
potential fraud or financial harm, Mr N probably wouldnt have made the additional 
payments. 
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their actions. In this case, I do not think that Mr N was to blame for what 
happened and I havent seen anything to suggest that he had foreseen the risk of this sort of 
harm occurring, or indeed any harm. I do not think Mr N could have foreseen the risk that C 
were in fact scammers and the trading account he was viewing was likely to be a simulation. 
I also cant see there were any regulatory warnings in place about C in question at the time 
Mr N started making the payments. So, in the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to 
reduce compensation on the basis that Mr N should share blame for what happened.In relation to transaction 1 I have considered if there was any other way of Monzo recovering 
the funds for Mr N. In this case as a debit card was used this would be limited to a 
chargeback. With regards to chargeback, Monzo is bound by the card scheme providers (in 
this case Mastercards) chargeback rules. Chargeback rights are limited through the 
Mastercard scheme rules in instances like this. And Im not satisfied there were any 
applicable rules under the scheme rules that would have allowed a successful chargeback 
here. So I dont think that Monzo could have recovered transaction 1.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Monzo Bank UK PLC to
Refund Mr N transaction 2 to 5. 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on any payments Mr N made, less appropriate tax, 
from the date he paid them to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman