DRN-2501014
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Wescot Credit Services Limited wrote to the wrong address.
What happened
Wescot are the administrators for a regulated debt. Mr P has been making regular payments 
in order to pay off the debt.
In December 2019, Wescot carried out a trace with a credit reference agency to check they 
had the right contact details for Mr P, having not heard from him in a while. They traced Mr P 
to an old address and wrote to it  but Mr P has not lived there for some time.
Mr P says that someone he knows still lives at that address. He says they opened his letter, 
read about his debt and personal details, and subsequently have been gloating to him about 
his debt situation  causing him a good deal of stress. So he complained.
Wescot apologised, removed the address from their records, and offered Mr P £50 
compensation.
Mr P came to our service and our investigator looked into things independently. They 
explained it was reasonable for Wescot to write to a customer, and to use a credit reference 
agency to check they had the latest details. They pointed out that the credit reference 
agency and the person who opened the post would bear some of the responsibility for what 
happened  not just Wescot. They felt Wescots apology and offer was a fair way to resolve 
the complaint.
Mr P didnt agree. He pointed out that hed been keeping up with his payments and that hed 
not been required to contact Wescot, so they shouldnt have worried that they hadnt heard 
from him. He says they couldve phoned him instead of doing a trace. He felt Wescot were 
solely responsible for what happened. And he said they never paid him the £50.
Mr P asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I do not wish to disappoint Mr P, after thinking about things carefully, I agree with our 
investigator.
I understand Mr Ps point of view  he wasnt required to contact Wescot, and was keeping 
up his payments. So hes questioned why Wescot thought to run a trace and write to him.
But I dont think theres anything wrong with Wescot getting in touch with a customer, nor 
with checking whether their contact details are up to date. And while Wescot could have 
phoned Mr P, they didnt have to. It doesnt seem unreasonable that they used the credit 
reference agency trace that was available to them.
Unfortunately, Wescot ultimately wrote to the wrong address  even if unintentionally. And 
this has put unfair strain on Mr P. So Ive thought about how to best put that right.
When a business gets things wrong, we often tell them to pay compensation, to recognise 
their error and the impact it had. When it comes to the amount of compensation Id award, 
its worth bearing in mind that were here to resolve complaints, and not to issue large fines 
or punish businesses.
Its also worth bearing in mind that the credit reference agency would normally bear some 
responsibility for the information they gave out in the trace. And that, generally speaking, 
people are not allowed to open mail that they reasonably know is not meant for them. This 
letter was addressed specifically to Mr P  not anyone else  and I understand it was 
marked as private and confidential, for the addressee only. So if someone opened the post 
anyway, they would normally bear some responsibility for their own actions there, and for the 
way they treated Mr P afterwards.
I also understand that Wescot have now removed the incorrect address from their records 
and have not written to it again.
We have guidelines about what levels of compensation to award, and we need to be 
consistent. I think Wescot do need to compensate Mr P for writing to the wrong address, but 
I agree with our investigator that their apology and offer of £50 compensation is fair to put 
things right here. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that Wescot Credit Services Limited should 
pay Mr P the £50 they offered, if they have not already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman