DRN-3028835
The complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mrs S says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Ss 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Ss representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ss. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ss complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think AXA made it clear that Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because AXA has been able to give us a copy of Mrs Ss store card 
application and credit agreement. The form has been completed by hand and signed and 
dated by Mrs S. And in order for Mrs S to get the PPI cover Mrs S had to sign in a 
separate box on the application and I see that Mrs S has done so. If Mrs S hadnt wanted 
the PPI, she could have left this section blank and just signed the overall document to 
take the store card without the PPI.  
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S  so it didnt have to check that the PPI was 
right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs S enough clear and timely information 
so she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out  so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs S. Mrs S told us she 
wasnt entitled to any employee benefits if she was too unwell to work or in the event she 
lost her job. So, I think she would have found the PPI cover a useful benefit if she wasnt 
working. Although Mrs S says she had two medical conditions some time before the 
policy was taken out, I dont think better information about the existing medical condition 
exclusion wouldve caused her to change her mind about taking out the policy. I say this 
because the first condition was suffered over 20 years before the policy was taken and 
the second 12 years before the sale. Mrs S was treated at the time for both conditions 
and she didnt tell us of any ongoing problems or any additional time off from work in the 
intervening years before the policy was taken out. So, I think it unlikely these conditions 
would have been uppermost in her mind when she applied for the policy to the extent 
that shed have thought she may need further time off from work because of them or 
wouldnt have taken the policy had she had been aware of the existing medical condition 
exclusion. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back 
problems. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mrs S would have declined 
the cover had AXA done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs S would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting, and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Ss representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ss representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ss individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ss particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman