DRN-3519259
The complaint
Ms O is unhappy Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc (M&S) hasnt reimbursed the 
funds she lost to two investment scams.
What happened
Ms O was contacted by two different investment firms. Ms O says she wasnt looking to 
gamble any money, but was advised by both firms that they could offer risk free investing, 
where she made profits and her money would be protected. In April 2017, Ms O invested 
using her M&S credit card and another credit card with a different bank. 
Through M&S, Ms O sent just under £2,500 to the first firm and £2,000 to the second. Shes 
explained they both used pressuring sales tactics to get her to invest, including repeatedly 
calling her. And she was given bonuses on her account when she invested more funds. 
Ms O has been able to provide her chat messages with the second firm and in this she 
discusses the guarantees she was given by the firm and is then promised further security 
and protection of her funds. Ms O didnt receive any money back from either firm and 
complained to M&S that shed been the victim of two scams.
M&S said it wasnt able to carry out a chargeback for Ms O and that she didnt have any 
rights under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act). It said she had 
deposited funds into her trading account using her card, so this was the equivalent of moving 
cash. This meant she hadnt paid for a specific service or goods using her card, so there was 
no protection under Section 75. 
Ms O came to our service and our investigator upheld her complaint. She said that Ms O did 
benefit from Section 75 protection, as Ms O had entered into contracts with both firms 
namely that in exchange for making her deposits, she would be able to profitably trade and 
then withdraw these funds. So she concluded that Ms O had grounds for claims under both 
misrepresentation and breach of contract against both firms. She upheld the case in full and 
awarded Ms O all the money she invested on her credit card, as well as the transaction fee 
Ms O paid for the second payment she made.
M&S disagreed with our investigator. It didnt agree Section 75 could be applied to these 
type of transactions on the account. So it asked for an ombudsman to review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As M&S doesnt agree its liable to Ms O under Section 75, Ive first considered the Act. In 
summary, it sets out that there must be:
1. a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2. a transaction financed by the agreement; and
3. a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to that transaction;
4. but not a claim which relates to any single item which the supplier has attached a 
cash price below £100 or in excess of £30,000
First, there doesnt seem to be any dispute that a credit card account is a relevant debtor-
creditor-supplier agreement under the Act. And, Im satisfied here there is nothing that 
breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain. There are three parties involved in each of the 
two scams here, Ms O as the debtor, M&S as the creditor and then each investment scam 
firm respectively as the supplier.
The second consideration is whether the transaction is financed by the agreement. Ms O 
first deposited funds to open an account in exchange for being able to use those funds on an 
investment platform and being able to withdraw them as and when she wished. And then 
she later deposited more funds to profitably trade on that account and withdraw them as she 
wished. Given the exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  Im 
satisfied there was a transaction for each of the deposits (the deposit-transactions) as 
defined by the Act. And Im satisfied the deposit-transactions did then finance the 
agreement, as it was these funds that enabled her to obtain and use the investment account.
Third, the claim must relate to the transaction and be for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract. Ms Os claim is that she was pressured and tricked into depositing the payments 
with the two firms for their purpose of stealing her funds and pressuring/encouraging her to 
deposit more funds. And she was misled into depositing the funds as she believed she was 
genuinely trading but with no risk and would be able to access these funds. She claims that 
both firms are in fact scams and not legitimate traders. Shes also evidenced she was told 
she was receiving bonus funds, which she understood she could later withdraw, and made 
false promises around the safety of her funds. So her claim does relate to both 
misrepresentation by the firms as well as them breaching the contracts she agreed.
Finally, the claim must not relate to a single item to which the seller has attached a cash 
price of less than £100 or more than £30,000. Here, the cash price of the deposit-
transactions is the value of each deposit-transaction. And in this case all are within the 
required bracket.
Im satisfied that in this case Ms O deposited the funds as both firms made contractual 
promises to her about what would happen with these funds and what she would receive 
in exchange. So Section 75 does apply in this case to the four deposit-transactions Ms O 
made. Ive therefore considered whether Ms O has a valid claim for misrepresentation or 
breach of contract.
Misrepresentation 
Ms O claims that both firms misrepresented themselves as legitimate enterprises when this 
was not in fact the case. For a claim of misrepresentation to be successful its necessary to 
show not just a false statement of fact was made, but that this statement induced Ms O into 
entering into the agreements.
Ive reviewed Ms Os testimony as well as the evidence shes been able to supply of her 
conversations with one of the firms. Alongside this, Ive looked at the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) register and the International Organization of Securities Commissions 
(IOSCO) investor alerts portal. And wider information on the two firms Ms O was involved 
with, such as articles and reviews of them which have been published since Ms O sent her 
payments.
Ms Os testimony is corroborated by both other complaints of this nature and by specific 
complaints our service has received about the firms she dealt with. And there are now many articles and reviews of both firms setting out that people have been scammed by them in the 
same way Ms O has described to us. So I find her testimony both plausible and persuasive.
The FCA and IOSCO also have both published warnings about the firms Ms O dealt with. 
The FCA warnings are from after Ms O invested, so not something she couldve seen at the 
time. But both set out the firms are not regulated to act in the UK, but have been doing so. 
And I note the first firm Ms O dealt with gave a UK address, despite this. In terms of IOSCO, 
there are warnings about the first firm from late 2016 and 2017. And about the second firm 
from 2017 and 2018. These warnings combined with Ms Os testimony and the articles and 
reviews Ive seen lead me to seriously question whether any actual trades were being placed 
for Ms O, or whether in reality this was an elaborate scam simply designed to mislead 
people and steal their funds. It seems highly unlikely any legitimate firm would have so many 
negative reviews and warnings about it; and be acting without authorisation in any 
jurisdiction. 
Taking into account all of the above, I dont think its likely either firm was operating a 
legitimate enterprise. This means that I think they have made misrepresentations to Ms O  
specifically that they were running a genuine enterprise through which she could have got 
back more than her deposits from the platform. Im also satisfied that if Ms O had known and 
understood this, she wouldnt have deposited any money. So she was therefore induced into 
the contracts on the basis of these misrepresentations.
Ms O paid a transaction fee on the second payment she made to the first firm. I consider this 
loss a direct consequence of her making this deposit-transaction, as it wouldnt have 
occurred had she not made the payment. And so I consider this should be included as a 
consequential loss of the misrepresentation.
Im satisfied both firms misrepresented themselves to Ms O and this induced her into 
the contracts with them and making all the deposit-transactions she did, plus paying 
the associated transaction fee. This means that under a misrepresentation claim, Im 
satisfied Ms O is entitled to a reimbursement of all the funds she sent from her M&S 
credit card due to these scams. I therefore dont consider I need to look at whether 
there was also a breach of contract by the firms in this case. 
Putting things right
Im satisfied Ms O has a claim for misrepresentation on the grounds that both firms made a 
series of misrepresentations, namely that they were operating a legitimate enterprise and 
that Ms O could access her money freely and earn a profit from her deposit-transactions. Im 
also satisfied that the deposit-transaction fee charged meets the test for consequential loss 
in misrepresentation, as it wouldnt have been incurred but for the deposit-transactions. Its 
a direct and foreseeable loss as a result of the deposit-transactions.
Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc should put Ms O back into the position she would 
have been had the deposit-transactions of £2,494.55 to the first firm and the deposit-
transactions of £2,000 to the second firm not been made; and that the transaction fee of 
£44.69 had not been charged by it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Ms Os complaint against Marks & Spencer 
Financial Services plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman