DRN-2105470
The complaint
Mr J complains about a credit card provided by Vanquis Bank Limited. He feels the decision 
to lend to him was irresponsible, and says if Vanquis had completed proper checks, they 
would have seen that he was in financial difficulty and they shouldnt have lent to him at all. 
Mr J is also unhappy that Vanquis sent him a marketing letter without him having applied for 
the credit independently. 
What happened
Vanquis sent Mr J a marketing communication for a credit card application. Mr J contacted 
Vanquis on 13 April 2018 to apply and was given a card with a £500 credit limit. 
Mr J told Vanquis that his personal income was £31,385, and his household income was 
£40,680. Vanquis ran a check on Mr Js credit history, and noted that he had £10,900 of 
outstanding debt, no CCJs, and had not defaulted in the last eight months. They decided, 
based on this information, that the £500 credit limit would be affordable and sustainable for 
Mr J. 
Mr J complained to Vanquis in March 2020, and they responded to say that they felt they 
had completed proportionate checks and didnt agree that it was irresponsible to lend to him. 
Mr J brought his complaint to our service, and our investigator looked into things. Our 
investigator didnt think it was irresponsible for Vanquis to lend to Mr J, or for them to send 
him the marketing communication. Mr J didnt agree, he feels that Vanquis shouldnt have 
offered him the credit card, so he asked for an ombudsman to review the case again.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J told our investigator that he did have a default recorded on his credit file within the eight 
months leading up to the application with Vanquis. I asked Mr J if he could provide any 
evidence of this. Mr J has provided information about his accounts that were in arrears, but 
no confirmation of a default being applied to his credit file in this time period. So, I think that 
the credit check information that Vanquis relied on was accurate. 
I asked Vanquis to confirm the affordability checks that they carried out when assessing Mr 
Js application. They confirmed that a £500 credit facility would have a monthly minimum 
payment of around £30, which they decided would be affordable for Mr J considering his 
income and outstanding debts. 
Section 5 of the Consumer Credit (CONC) sourcebook, in place at the time of Mr Js 
application, outlines that Vanquis were required to make a proportionate check to ensure 
that Mr J could sustainably meet the repayments for the credit. 
So, Ive thought about the checks that Vanquis carried out, and whether they were 
proportionate in light of the credit it offered. Vanquis obtained information about Mr Js 
income, his outstanding debts, and his credit history in terms of defaults and CCJs. I think 
these checks were proportionate when considered against the relatively low amount of credit 
that Vanquis gave Mr J. They thought about whether he would be able to afford the 
repayments, and I dont think the decision they came to was unreasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Mr J did have defaults on his credit file, which may have meant that other lenders wouldnt 
have given Mr J any credit. Vanquis explain that they dont refuse applications solely on 
previous defaults. They describe themselves as a second chance lender, giving credit to 
people who might not be able to obtain it from other places. It had been eight months since 
the last default Mr J received, so I dont think it was unreasonable for Vanquis to conclude 
that he was in the process of repairing his credit, and that this facility might help him in 
achieving that.  
I understand that Mr J thinks the communication sent to him by Vanquis was opportunistic. 
But Vanquis arent prohibited from sending marketing communications, and Mr J had to take 
the action of applying for the credit card himself following receipt of that communication, so I 
dont think Vanquis have done anything wrong here.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think Vanquis decision to lend to Mr J was 
irresponsible. My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman