DRN-4109359
The complaint
Mr D complains that FUND OURSELVES LIMITED irresponsibly provided him with loans he 
couldnt afford to repay, and that it continued to charge him interest while he was in a 
breathing space.
What happened
Mr D took out two loans  with Fund Ourselves as follows
Date Amount Monthly 
repayment Duration When 
repaid Settlement 
figure
Loan 1 27/6/2022 £500 £246 4 months 29/7/2022 £628
Loan 2 4/8/2022 £1,100 £440 5 months 21/10/2022 £1,777.60
As can be seen, Mr D paid off loan 1 within 2 days of setting it up. With regard to loan 2 Mr D 
paid no instalments on it. He contacted a debt advice charity and advised Fund Ourselves of 
this on 10 August 2022.  He said he had entered a breathing space arrangement. As a 
result Fund Ourselves agreed to place the account on hold for 30 days. Mr D made a 
payment of £440 on 14 October 2022. He said he had wanted to pay a higher amount but 
Fund Ourselves website would only allow him to pay 10 payments of £14.40. He paid the 
balance off on 21 October 2022 having received a settlement figure from Fund Ourselves.
Mr D complained that Fund Ourselves shouldnt have provided him with the loans. He said 
he was in a debt spiral and that Fund Ourselves completed minimal checks. He also said his 
credit score was poor and he was unemployed. He further complained that Fund Ourselves 
refused to freeze the interest on the account even though he was in the breathing space 
arrangement.
Fund Ourselves said it carried out proportionate checks including income verification and 
was satisfied Mr D was able to repay the loan. It didnt receive any notification from the debt 
advice charity about a breathing space arrangement but did receive notification in 
October 2022 following which it agreed a payment plan and received one payment from the 
charity following which Mr D repaid the loan.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Adjudicator said that taking all the 
information provided into consideration she didnt think that Fund Ourselves had done 
anything wrong.
Mr D didnt agree and said that if Fund Ourselves had asked for a bank statement it would 
have seen his gambling activity and would have refused the loans.
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Fund Ourselves complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr D would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr D would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Fund Ourselves to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ds ability to make the repayments under the agreements. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Fund Ourselves had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Fund Ourselves had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mr D undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Fund Ourselves to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr D. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
lending decisions
In respect of both loans Mr D provided details of his income and outgoings. He said he was 
in full-time employment. He said his income was £4,200 a month and his monthly expenditure was £2,250 a month which then left him with a disposable income of £1,950 a 
month. 
Fund Ourselves carried out an income verification check through a credit reference charity. 
This gave Mr D a high income confidence factor i.e. that Mr D had quoted his income 
accurately. Bearing in mind the amounts, and the terms, of each loan, that he paid off loan 1 
early and his application details were independently confirmed I think that Fund Ourselves 
carried out reasonable and proportionate checks. And that it made fair lending decisions in 
respect of both loans.
I note that Mr D says if Fund Ourselves had looked at his bank statement it would have seen 
his gambling activity. But I dont think that it would have been proportionate to expect 
Fund Ourselves to look at bank statements, so it wouldnt have seen any such activity.
Fund Ourselves handling of loan 2
Mr D complains that when he notified Fund Ourselves that the was in the breathing space 
arrangement it refused to freeze the interest. This meant that he was anxious that a very 
high rate of interest was accruing.
Fund Ourselves said it wasnt advised of any breathing space arrangement, but nevertheless 
agreed to put the account on hold when Mr D notified it that he was in contact with the debt 
advice charity. Mr D paid off the loan and it notified him of the early settlement figure which 
included a rebate.
The Debt Respite Scheme (Breathing Space) is a government scheme operated by debt 
advice providers or local authorities. Once it is in operation the loan provider is required to 
take certain actions including freezing the interest on the account for 60 days. It requires 
formal setting up. So I doubt that the breathing space applied from 10 August which is when 
Mr D first notified Fund Ourselves of his contact with the debt advice charity. And I note that 
Fund Ourselves said it never received any formal notice that breathing space applied.
If a consumer notifies the business that they are in financial difficulties it has an obligation 
under the rules to treat the consumer fairly and with forbearance. Here Fund Ourselves 
agreed to put the loan on hold while Mr D applied to the debt advice charity. This meant that 
it didnt ask him to make payments to allow hint io resolve then through the charity.  But I do 
note that this was within six days of him taking out the loan which does suggest that Mr D 
was aware of his circurnstances at the time of taking out the loan.  When it received 
communications from the debt advice charity it agreed a repayment scheme. I consider that 
Fund Ourselves acted reasonably here.
I note Mr D says he couldnt make an overpayment when he tried to. I see he did make a 
substantial payment but this was after 5pm, so he couldnt get through to an adviser. 
However, he could have made a further payment the following day, and he made the full 
settlement payment the following week. So I dont think it necessary to require 
Fund Ourselves to take any other action in this respect 
The Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations set out how lenders should calculate 
the settlement figure so that its fair for borrowers. Here in the case of both loans I think 
Fund Ourselves calculated the settlement figures in line with the regulations which meant 
Mr D received rebates of interest. As it complied with the regulations, I think Fund Ourselves 
acted fairly in respect of the early settlement.My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman