DRN-4197320
The complaint
Miss Q complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly blocked and closed her account. She 
also complains that HSBC took too long to release the money in her account. She says this 
caused her trouble and upset and she wants compensation.
What happened
Miss Q had an account with HSBC which she opened in March 2022.
In May 2022, HSBC reviewed how Miss Q was using her account. The bank asked her to 
provide information about a number of cash deposits that had been made into her account. 
HSBC wrote to Miss Q via email and tried to call her in an attempt to the get the information 
it needed on several occasions over a number of weeks. However, Miss Q didnt respond. 
So, in order to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations HSBC blocked Miss Qs 
account which meant she couldnt access any money in the account. At the time the account 
balance was around £40,000.
Miss Q finally responded to HSBC on14 June 2022. HSBC asked her where the money had 
come from that had been deposited into her account and to provide proof of her entitlement 
to the funds. Miss Q provided what she could about the money in her account. HSBC 
reached out to Miss Q for more information. On 20 June 2022, she told the bank that most of 
the money had been given to her from family and a friend whod repaid money that shed 
owed. She explained that she couldnt provide any paperwork to support her explanation as 
some of the money had been kept in a family safe overseas. 
HSBC completed its review at the end of June 2022. Following its review, HSBC decided to 
close Miss Qs account immediately. HSBC wrote to Miss Q in August 2022 giving her notice 
that shed need to make alternative banking arrangements and sent her a cheque for her 
closing balance. 
Miss Q complained to HSBC about blocking her account. In response the bank said it hadnt 
done anything wrong. HSBC said it had blocked and closed the account in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account and relevant regulations.
Miss Q wasnt happy with the banks response and brought her complaint to this service. 
She explained that the restrictions on her account meant she had no money to secure a 
tenancy agreement, so she ended up becoming homeless for months, which had been 
dangerous and frightening. She said she had to borrow money from friends to get by, which 
was upsetting. And the whole experience had damaged her mental health. So, HSBC should 
pay her compensation. 
 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. He thought HSBC hadnt done anything 
wrong when it blocked and closed Miss Qs account. However, he said HSBC took too long 
to release Miss Qs funds back to her. Based on the evidence, he said HSBC could have 
released Miss Qs funds on 30 June 2022, because by that time the bank had completed its 
enquiries. So, he said HSBC had kept Miss Qs funds for longer than it should have done. 
He said HSBC should pay Miss Q £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
this had caused her. And 8% simple interest on the balance of Miss Qs accounts from 30 
June   18 August 2022. 
HSBC accepted what the investigator said. Miss Q disagreed. She said the amount of 
compensation doesnt adequately reflect the level of trouble and upset the banks actions 
caused her. She wants more compensation.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, as the investigator has already explained, HSBC has extensive legal and regulatory 
responsibilities they must meet when providing account services to customers. They can 
broadly be summarised as a responsibility to protect persons from financial harm, and to 
prevent and detect financial crime. To fulfil these obligations HSBC may need to review 
activity taking place on accounts and ask customers for information, for example about 
payments, and information about the individuals operating the accounts  its entitled and 
obliged to carry out such checks. The terms of Miss Qs account also permit HSBC to review 
an account and ask its customers for information. 
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for HSBC to block Miss Qs account. HSBC has explained that this was its standard 
procedure, and I accept that it was. Im satisfied that in doing so HSBC were complying with 
its legal and regulatory obligations. So, whilst I accept, the banks actions caused Miss Q 
inconvenience and upset when it decided to block her accounts and asked her to provide 
information, I cant say the bank did anything wrong and treated her unfairly in doing so. 
However, while HSBC are entitled to carry out a review, wed expect them to do so in a 
timely manner and without undue delay. Wed also expect them to release a customers 
money as soon as it had completed its enquiries. HSBC initially blocked Miss Qs account in 
May 2022. I can see that HSBC asked Miss Q to provide it with information on more than 
one occasions. The last time on 20 June 2022. From looking the information HSBC has 
provided about what it was doing, it seems that by 30 June 2022 HSBC, had completed its 
enquiries. However, it wasnt until 18 August 2022, when HSBC closed her account, that 
HSBC sent Miss Q a cheque for her balance. 
Weve asked HSBC why it took as long as it did to give Miss Q back her money. But it hasnt 
provided much in the way of an explanation other than various checks needed to be 
completed, which involved a number of internal departments. Having looked at the timeline 
of events, whilst I recognise the importance of these actions, Im persuaded that these 
checks could have been completed sooner. So, Im satisfied HSBC has caused unnecessary 
delays in releasing Miss Qs funds back to her.
HSBC has agreed with the investigators view to pay Miss Q £150 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused by the delay, together with 8% interest for loss of use of her funds. 
In response to the investigators view Miss Q said HSBC actions had caused her financial 
problems, which meant she struggled to secure a new tenancy agreement, ended up 
sleeping in a train station for a night, and not having enough money for food, which was 
extremely frightening and upsetting  especially as she had no family in the UK and is a 
woman. Shes said she was homeless for months. So, she says the compensation offered 
isnt enough to reflect the amount of trouble and upset shes suffered. Ive considered what Miss Q has said about how HSBCs actions impacted her. And Ive 
looked at the evidence shes sent in, which includes undated photographs of a young 
woman at a train station and tenancy agreements, which show Miss Qs tenancy ended on 
28 June 2022 and she took out a new tenancy on 13 July 2022. So, it doesnt appear Miss Q 
was homeless for months as she has suggested. I note too that the photographs Miss Q has 
provided are undated, so there is no way of knowing for sure when they were taken or if 
indeed, they are of Miss Q. 
There isnt a set formula that we use to calculate awards for particular mistakes or poor 
service. Its my role to consider what impact HSBCs actions have had on Miss Q and 
decide, within guidelines set by our service, whether compensation would be appropriate in 
the circumstances. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen I think its fair to say the delays in releasing Miss Qs funds 
caused Miss Q trouble and upset. And I agree some compensation is appropriate for this. I 
say this because Miss Q had to borrow money from friends to secure her new rental property 
and buy food. She also had to wait more than a month for HSBC to release her funds after 
the bank had completed its enquiries. So, I can appreciate this wouldve been inconvenient 
and upsetting for her. And its only right that HSBC recognises this. However, Im satisfied 
that £150 along with 8% interest is a fair amount of compensation and proportionate to the 
trouble and upset Miss Q was caused. So, while Miss Q may disagree with me, Im satisfied 
that the compensation recommended by the investigator recognises the impact HSBCs 
actions had in the overall circumstances of this complaint. So, I wont be directing HSBC to 
pay any more.    
Finally, Ive gone on to consider whether HSBC acted fairly when it closed Miss Qs account. 
Its generally for banks and financial businesses to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
HSBC have relied on the terms and conditions of Miss Qs account in closing the account. 
The terms and conditions outline that HSBC can close a customers account with two 
months notice, and in certain circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this 
case the HSBC closed Miss Qs account immediately. For HSBC to act fairly here they 
needed to meet the criteria to apply their terms for immediate closure  and having looked at 
these terms and all the evidence Im satisfied that HSBC did. So, it was entitled to close the 
account as its already done. 
In summary, its clearly caused Miss Q trouble and upset when she wasnt able to use her 
account. And I appreciate it must have been a worrying and frustrating time for her waiting 
for HSBC to give her the money in her account. So, I realise she will be disappointed by my 
decision. But having looked at all the evidence and circumstances of this complaint, I havent 
found grounds to increase the level of compensation. And Im satisfied that £150 
compensation along with 8% simple interest is fair and reasonable. So, I wont be telling 
HSBC to do anything else to resolve Miss Qs complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold this complaint. To put things right HSBC UK 
Bank Plc should:
Pay Miss Q £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the time taken 
for HSBC to release the money in the account back to Miss Q
Pay Miss Q 8% simple interest on her account balance between 30 June 2022 and 
18 August 2022
HM Revenue & Customs require HSBC Bank UK Plc to withhold income tax from the above 
mentioned interest. HSBC should give Miss Q a certificate showing how much is taken off if 
she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Q to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman