DRN-3861424
The complaint
Mr P complains that Black Horse Limited (Black Horse) irresponsibly granted him a hire 
purchase agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In February 2019 Mr P acquired a used car financed by way of a hire purchase agreement 
from Black Horse. Mr P was required to make 49 monthly repayments of £357.76. He paid a 
deposit of £1,000. The total repayable under the agreement was £31,884.48.
Mr P says that Black Horse didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Black Horse didnt agree. It said it carried 
out a thorough assessment which included credit and affordability checks as well as checks 
to estimate his income and expenditure. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Black Horse didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr P didnt agree and said he was responsible for 100% of his household bills at the time 
and that his worsening financial situation had led to him ending up in an individual voluntary 
arrangement (IVA). 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Black Horse will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
At the time he made the loan application, Mr P said he was earning a gross annual income 
of £31,000. Black Horse says it took steps to verify Mr Ps income before approving the 
finance by relying on credit bureau information. But it didnt obtain actual proof of income, for 
instance by way of payslips. I also see it relied on credit bureau information for ascertaining 
Mr Ps household costs and committed expenditure. Given the overall size of the borrowing, 
the monthly repayments and the term of the agreement, I think it would have been 
proportionate for Black Horse to have taken steps to properly check these to ensure the loan 
was likely to be affordable. 
Black Horse says it calculated Mr Ps expenditure using the information Mr P provided at the 
point of application for the finance about his financial situation, home ownership and housing 
costs. Mr P had stated that his housing costs were £300,his living costs at £434 whilst other 
credit commitments were assessed at £630. It therefore calculated Mr Ps monthly 
disposable income as being £674. The credit check information put his disposable income at 
being slightly higher than that. 
Black Horse says the regulator has approved this method for Black Horses affordability 
assessments. The regulator has said firms can estimate expenditure unless it knows or there 
are indicators to suggest an estimate is unlikely to be accurate. Black Horse also says Mr P 
signed a document saying he didnt know of any circumstances that would have made the 
loan he was applying for unaffordable. Again, given the size and length of the loan, I think it 
would have been reasonable and proportionate to have gained a better understanding of Mr 
Ps specific financial circumstances, rather than relying on an estimate.  
Ive then considered what Black Horse would likely have found out if it had completed 
reasonable and proportionate affordability checks. Weve asked Mr P to provide us with 
evidence of his financial circumstances at the time the lending was taken out. However, he 
hasnt given us enough information to fairly determine what proportionate checks would 
likely have shown Black Horse. 
As Mr P hasnt been able to demonstrate that the agreement was unaffordable, I cant 
reasonably conclude that Black Horse ought to have known he would struggle to make the 
repayments. Im therefore not persuaded that Black Horse acted unfairly in approving the 
finance. 
Ive seen that early in 2021 Mr P told Black Horse that hed entered into an IVA. He 
continued making his payments but I understand the level of payments was changed when 
he started new employment in June 2021. 
I know that Mr Ps financial situation has continued to deteriorate and that he is currently 
being treated for serious illness. I am sorry to hear about the difficult situation he is in. In 
view of the financial difficulty that Mr P continues to experience, I request that Black Horse 
exercises all reasonable forbearance with Mr P and where possible that it takes to explore all 
available options with Mr P, including if appropriate termination of the agreement. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman