DRN-1951649
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy Metro Bank PLC (Metro Bank) wont reimburse them for a 
transfer of £10,000 Mr M made from their current account, after he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M, who were in their 70s at the time, held a savings account and a current 
account with Metro Bank. Mr M is a carer for Mrs M. And Mr and Mrs M were in receipt of   
their pension and DWP benefits. On 19 March 2019, Mr M received a call on his home 
phone while he was on the computer. Mr M says the caller said he was phoning from British 
Telecom (BT) and was called John. This call was sadly a scam call. 
The scammer told Mr M a fraudster was currently using his computer and had accessed it to 
carry out fraudulent transactions from Mr Ms bank account.
Mr M initially queried with the scammer why someone from BT was calling, as his internet 
provider was with a different provider. But the scammer convinced Mr M that BT owned all 
the phone and broadband lines. Mr M accepted this. The scammer then convinced Mr M into 
allowing him remote access to his computer. 
Mr M says the scammer showed him fictional evidence of various attempted transactions of 
payments abroad. The scammer told Mr M they had managed to stop these payments and 
asked if Mr M would be willing to help catch the fraudster, explaining that this would involve 
transferring money to the fraudster  enabling the fraudster to be traced. Mr M says he 
agreed to help providing it wouldnt cost him anything.
The scammer showed Mr M a copy of Mr and Mrs Ms current account statement which 
showed a balance of £1,328.97, and a copy of their savings account statement which had a 
balance of £8,859.74. The scammer said he had just put £10,000 into Mr and Mrs Ms 
current account and showed Mr M a statement to reflect this.
In fact, what had happened was the scammer had transferred £8,800 from Mr and Mrs Ms 
savings account into their current account  so the balance in Mr and Mrs Ms current 
account hadnt increased by £10,000 but by the £8,800. Mr M didnt notice this at the time - 
as his account balance was over £10,000, he believed that the scammer had paid £10,000 
into his account. 
This left Mr and Mrs M with £128.97 in their current account and £59.74 in their savings 
account.
The scammer then asked Mr M to transfer £10,000 to an account and provided the details of 
the account and the payee, who I will refer to as VB.
As Mr M was satisfied that he was helping catch a fraudster and wouldnt be using his 
money to do so, he went ahead and set up a new payee using his online banking account. 
Metro Bank sent Mr M a text to confirm that he had set up a new payee and Mr M went on to 
transfer £10,000 to VB at 10:18am.
The scammer told Mr M not to answer any calls from the bank  as this would in fact be the 
fraudster who had been hacking Mr Ms computer. The scammer also told Mr M to leave his 
computer on and wait for further instructions.
A little later, the scammer told Mr M to call Metro Bank to authorise the payment. Its my 
understanding this is because the scammer thought the payment hadnt been processed by 
Metro Bank because he hadnt yet received it. The scammer told Mr M, that if questioned, he 
should tell the bank that he was paying for a friends wifes hospital treatment.
Mr M called Metro Bank at 11:01am and asked them to authorise a payment of £10,000. The 
adviser clarified if Mr M wanted to make a payment for £10,000 to which Mr M said yes. 
The adviser asked if it was going to a new beneficiary or an existing beneficiary with Mr M 
saying: it's going to a person, my friend that needs help. He is needing hospital care. So he 
needs £10,000 for his wife's care. After Metro Bank confirmed security details with Mr M, it 
confirmed that the £10,000 payment had already been made. Mr M asked again if the 
payment had been made, with the adviser confirming it had. 
A short time later, Mr M says the scammer called him again to say the payment hadnt been 
received and asked Mr M to call Metro Bank again to check the status of it. Mr M did so and 
the call handler explained that payments can take up to two hours and to wait a bit longer.
At 12:36pm, Mr M called Metro Bank again. Mr M said that he had looked at his account and 
it seemed to have been emptied. After completing security, the adviser told Mr M about the 
recent transactions on his account so the £8,800 transfer from Mr and Mrs Ms savings 
account into their current account and then the £10,000 transfer from Mr and Mrs Ms current 
account to VB. As Mr M hadnt known £8,800 had been transferred from his and Mrs Ms 
savings account he asked if £10,000 had been deposited into their current account before 
that. The adviser explained there wasnt any record of any incoming payments for £10,000.
Following a couple more calls Mr M realised hed been the victim of a scam, Mr M called 
Metro Bank at 13:58pm to report what had happened. 
Metro Bank contacted the receiving bank to report the scam but unfortunately most of the 
funds had been removed from the account with only £10.20 being recovered and returned to 
Mr and Mrs M. 
Mr and Mrs M, unhappy with what had happened and Metro Banks response to the matter, 
referred their complaint to our service.
In response to the case being with our service Metro Bank investigated Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint. It said as Mr M had authorised the payment it didnt consider it was liable for any 
financial loss incurred.
Metro Bank also said as Mr M was told not to answer any calls from the bank at the time of 
the scam it wouldnt have been able to contact him and prevent the loss. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and thought it should be 
upheld. Broadly summarised, she considered while Mr M had authorised the payment 
(albeit while being tricked); Metro Bank should, as a matter of good practice, be undertaking 
transaction monitoring seeking to avert fraudulent activity.In reaching her opinion our investigator thought the British Standards Institutes (BSI) 
Protecting customers from financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of 
practice published in October 2017 was relevant. This was because the BSI Code of 
practice set out some key principles for businesses to work to in the detection of fraud and 
financial abuse.
The investigator considered the transaction was out of character and unusual for 
Mr and Mrs M and therefore shouldve alerted Metro Bank to the possibility that they were at 
risk of financial harm. She considered Metro Bank didn't contact Mr M to challenge the 
purpose of the payment at the time he was attempting to make the transaction, other than 
the text it had sent him when he was setting up the new payee. She didnt think a text was 
sufficient, given all this confirmed was that Mr M had set this payee up himself - it didnt seek 
to uncover whether Mr and Mrs M had been duped into making the payment. 
She thought had Metro Bank looked into things at the point Mr M attempted to pay VB 
£10,000, then it was more likely than not the scam wouldve unravelled, and the loss 
wouldve been prevented. 
She also thought that while Mr M had been told not to answer any calls from Metro Bank, if 
Metro Bank had been unable to speak to Mr M before processing the payment, it ought not 
to have processed the payment until it had been able to speak to him. She thought this 
meant Mr M would have contacted Metro at some point anyway, and when hed done so this 
would have allowed Metro Bank to ask Mr M questions about the transaction before 
processing it. Had this happened our investigator considered it was likely that the scam 
would have been revealed, meaning the transaction wouldnt have gone ahead and Mr M 
wouldnt have lost the funds.
Our investigator was of the opinion that Metro Bank should refund the amount Mr and Mrs M 
lost as a result as a result of the scam and pay them £150 to acknowledge the upset caused.
Metro Bank disagreed with the investigators opinion. Broadly summarised Metro Bank 
considered:
it wasnt reasonable to apply the BSI Code of practice as only a small number of 
institutions built the practice and those that did not, had no involvement whatsoever 
as to whether they are in agreement or alignment with what constitutes best 
practice.
it adheres to the voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model Code for
Authorised Push Payment Scams (the CRM code) but couldnt see that this has 
been considered within the investigators opinion.
that it recognises there needs to be a balance between servicing a customers 
instruction from a customer experience perspective, whilst also protecting the 
customer from a risk perspective, but says its risk appetite is in line with its regulatory 
obligations.
its colleagues are trained to have open conversations to obtain as much information 
as possible about the transaction which a colleague would then use to consider 
whether there should be wider concerns. Metro Bank says it maintains systems to 
flag suspect payments in line with its regulatory duties.
there was no statutory underpinning for the rationale detailed within the investigators 
opinion, including the investigator's views of Metro Banks payment screening 
requirements  which are dictated by its own risk appetite, as required by the 
financial regulator the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and Prudential Regulation 
Authority (PRA). the opinion of the investigator and our service appear to be attempting to take on the 
role of the regulator (the FCA) in dictating what payments should and should not 
have flagged as suspicious.
as an impartial service, we should be considering and fairly placing weight on what 
the actual obligations of a bank are and what due diligence  or prerequisite level of 
care  the customer undertook to prevent themselves falling victim to a scam.
due diligence was completed, however the investigators opinion on this was 
subjective. Metro Bank argue that it doesnt find the transfer unusual given Mr M said 
a friends wife needed urgent hospital treatment. And it further explained that it was 
uncertain what the repercussions would then be, had it restricted the payment, if it 
was genuinely needed to cover someones urgent hospital treatment.
As Metro Bank disagreed, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare duty).
Regulated firms like Metro Bank are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers (Principle 6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken
proactive steps to:
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable 
circumstances, including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised 
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations (BBA) 
February 2016 report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable 
circumstances);look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam 
(something also recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 
Protecting customers from financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  
Code of practice, which a number of banks and trade associations were involved in 
the development of); and,
in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.
This means that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so, in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated
fraud and scams in recent years  which banks are generally more familiar with than the
average customer.
Metro Bank argues that the BSI Code of practice isnt legislation or a regulation and only a 
few firms were involved in its development. So Metro Bank considers that it was unfair for 
the investigator to consider the BSI Code of practice is relevant when determining Mr Ms 
complaint.
The British Standards Institutes Protecting customers from financial harm as a result of 
fraud or financial abuse  Code of practice (the BSI Code) gives recommendations to 
organisations for protecting customers from financial harm that might occur as a result of 
fraud or financial abuse. It also gives guidance on how to recognise customers who might be 
at risk, how to assess the potential risks to the individual and how to take the necessary 
actions to prevent or minimise financial harm. 
I recognise that Metro Bank was not itself a signatory to the BSI Code. But I consider the BSI 
Code was in any event a reasonable articulation of what I consider to have already been 
good industry practice at the time Mr M made the payment and that it sets out the kinds of 
practical steps businesses might fairly and reasonably take. I dont think the BSI Code 
suggested wholly new practices.
Metro Bank also argue that it adheres to the voluntary CRM code and that this wasnt 
considered within the investigators opinion.
This is because the CRM code states:
Scope
DS2(1) This Code does not apply to:
(c) any payments completed before the coming into force of this Code.
As the CRM code was introduced in May 2019, after Mr Ms transfer in March 2019, and the 
CRM code isnt retrospective  it isnt relevant in this complaint.
In this case, I need to decide whether Metro Bank acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr and Mrs M when Mr M made a payment of £10,000 to a new payee, or whether it 
should have done more than it did.Did Metro Bank act fairly and reasonably in this case?
As Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Metro Bank should have 
been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions. 
Mr M initially made the request to transfer £10,000 through online banking. And this 
happened after the scammer, while having access to Mr Ms computer, had transferred 
nearly all of Mr and Mrs Ms savings into Mr and Mrs Ms current account. In doing so, 
deceiving Mr M into thinking the funds placed into his current account were from the 
scammer and were not Mr Ms.
Ive thought carefully about whether the payment made to the scammer was out of 
character and unusual for Mr and Mrs M. Having looked at Mr and Mrs M account usage 
from January 2018, Im satisfied it was. I say this because:
The current account was typically used for everyday spending; card payments and 
direct debits didnt exceed £400, and the largest cash withdrawal was £500. While 
there were two larger standing orders, these were regular each month  with one 
going to their savings account and the other being for rent  and they were both 
significantly less in value than the £10,000 payment to the scammer. 
The transfer of £8,800 from Mr and Mrs Ms savings account to their current 
account, and then the subsequent payment of £10,000 to VB almost cleared both of 
Mr and Mrs Ms accounts leaving them with very little to live off on a limited income 
 which was their pension and the benefits they received.
Mr and Mrs M hadnt used their online banking to make a faster payment out of their 
account (based on the online banking audit from February 2017). So a £10,000 
transfer to a new payee was a sudden change to the way Mr and Mrs M operated 
their account.
Given Im persuaded this payment was unusual and out of character, I think Metro Bank 
ought fairly and reasonably, and as a matter of good practice, to have made enquiries about 
the purpose of the payment before it processed it.
I cant see Metro Bank carried out any additional checks with Mr M at the time he attempted 
to make the £10,000 payment, other than to send him a code via text message to confirm a 
new payee had been set up by Mr M prior to the transfer. But Metro Bank has said it has 
fraud-detection systems in place to help it identify any unusual transactions, and the 
transaction Mr M requested didnt flag as suspicious. 
How Metro Bank chooses to configure its fraud detection systems is for it to decide. But the 
question I need to answer here is: based on all the circumstances of this complaint, whether
Metro Bank ought fairly and reasonably to have done more in Mr and Mrs Ms case  
whether its fraud prevention systems detected the payment or not. And taking all of the 
above into account, I think Metro Bank should reasonably have taken additional steps and 
made additional checks before processing the payment.
Ive thought carefully about what wouldve happened had Metro made enquiries with 
Mr and Mrs M before processing the payment. Of course I cant know for sure what wouldve 
happened, so Ive thought about what is more likely than not to have been the case.It seems to me the scammer had considered Mr M might be contacted by Metro Bank 
following his request to transfer £10,000 to a new payee as he instructed Mr M not to answer 
any calls from his bank. And then later, when the payment didnt credit the scammers 
account as quickly as hed have liked, the scammer provided Mr M with a cover story  a 
friends wife needing hospital treatment - before asking him to call Metro Bank to authorise 
the payment. Ive thought about these facts carefully in deciding what is more likely than not 
to have happened if Metro Bank had made enquiries about Mr Ms payment request.
Having done so, Im persuaded that had Mr M not answered a call from Metro bank 
following his attempt to make the payment then Metro ought not to have processed it until it 
had spoken with Mr M and satisfied itself he wasnt likely to be at risk of financial harm. And 
had Mr M either answered the call, or proactively called Metro in order for the payment to 
be released to the fraudster, I think its more likely than not the scammer wouldve provided 
him with the same cover story he used later on. 
Metro Bank says all its colleagues are trained to have open conversations to obtain as 
much information as possible about a transaction which the colleague then uses to 
consider whether there should be wider concerns. So I would have expected it to ask 
further questions in response to Mr Ms likely given reason for the payment  rather than 
just accept it at face value. 
I say this because while I accept the reason Mr M was more likely than not to have given for 
the payment wasnt completely implausible (on the face of things), Im satisfied that 
Metro Bank ought to have recognised there was a possibly Mr M mightve been providing a 
cover story, and ought to have had some concern Mr M might be at risk of financial harm  
particularly as in this case, Mr M wouldve been suggesting they were using almost all of 
their money to fund a friends wifes hospital treatment.
Its widely accepted that a common feature of scam related transactions is that customers 
are persuaded not to tell the truth. Banks recognise that, and in my view should, as a matter 
of good practice, take that into account when deciding whether to take further steps before 
accepting a customers instruction to process a payment.
In this case, Mr M was making an unusual and out of character payment when he requested 
the £10,000 payment, and that payment would mean Mr M wouldve spent almost all of his 
and Mrs Ms money on hospital treatment for someone outside his close family, so for the 
reasons I have given, I think Metro Bank ought fairly and reasonably to have asked further 
questions in order to satisfy themselves Mr and Mrs M werent likely to be at risk of financial 
harm in all the circumstances of the transaction.
Metro Bank argues that it doesnt believe interrogating Mr M, who had advised that the 
payment was needed for someones hospital care, would have been deemed appropriate. 
And it goes on to say that there would be repercussions if it had restricted the payment had 
it been genuinely needed to cover someones urgent hospital treatment.
There is obviously a balance to strike, and Im not suggesting that Mr M should have been
subjected to an interrogation by the call handler. But Metro Bank ought fairly and reasonably 
to have satisfied itself that Mr M wasnt likely to be about to fall victim to a scam, and Im 
persuaded it couldve done this by asking a few questions relating to the purpose of the 
payment.Metro bank could have, for example, asked Mr M which hospital the treatment was due to 
take place in, what his friends wifes name was and what was wrong with her. Metro Bank 
could have brought it to Mr Ms attention that he was using almost all his money to fund this 
treatment.
I think its unlikely that Mr M would have been able to give convincing answers to these 
questions and Im persuaded the story Mr M had been given wouldve begun to unravel. I 
say this because, while the scammer told Mr M to use a specific reason for the transfer, 
based on what Mr M has told us, Im not persuaded this cover story was particularly detailed 
or, in the circumstances of this case, that it would have stood up to more than the most basic 
level of enquiry. And of course, had Metro alerted Mr M to the fact he was using almost all of 
his money to fund the treatment Mr M wouldve very quickly realised something wasnt quite 
right.
Had the story unravelled in the way I think it likely wouldve, I believe the scam would more 
likely than not have come to light. Ultimately I am persuaded Mr M wouldnt have gone on to 
make the payment, and wouldnt have lost out as a result of the scam had Metro Bank taken 
the time to ask sufficient questions about the payment before processing it as I think it ought 
fairly and reasonably to have done in all the circumstances, given the indicators that 
Mr and Mrs M might be at risk.
In reaching my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in this case, I have taken into
account everything Metro Bank has said, including its view that Mr and Mrs M ought to have 
taken steps to prevent themselves falling victim to a scam. But I dont think it would be fair to 
say Mr and Mrs M acted unreasonably here.
I appreciate that in hindsight it might be difficult, in particular for those who havent been
affected by this type of crime or who have greater knowledge of fraud and scams as banks
do, to understand why Mr M fell for the scam. But as Ive already explained, Im satisfied 
Mr M was under the spell of a scammer. He was in my opinion carefully manipulated and 
coached into thinking he was helping to catch a fraudster. Because of this, I think its 
understandable that Mr M acted in the way that he did. And I dont think Mr Ms actions, 
whilst he was under the spell of a scam, means that Metro Bank shouldnt have done more, 
or that he shouldnt now be compensated.
Overall, Mr Ms transfer of £10,000 was an unusual transaction and was out of character. 
Metro Bank could have done more to prevent the transfer from happening. There was 
enough going on to suggest that Mr M may well have been in the process of being scammed 
and Metro Bank ought fairly and reasonably to have picked up on this. Had it done so, and 
had Metro asked some questions to challenge the purpose of the payment, Im persuaded it 
is more likely than not the scam would have come to light, and Mr and Mrs M wouldnt have 
lost out on the funds Mr M transferred.
The impact on Mr and Mrs M
Mr M was 72 years old at the time of the scam. He was also a full-time carer for Mrs M, who 
suffers with advanced dementia. Being a victim of a scam had a big impact on 
Mr and Mrs M. The scam has left them thinking they had lost everything. It is clear from 
listening to the calls our investigator had with Mr M that it still impacts him to this day.
The bulk of that impact follows directly from the actions of the scammer. But I consider that
Metro Bank could and ought to have prevented Mr M from losing money as a result of the
scam, for the reasons Ive explained. By stopping the financial losses Mr and Mrs M 
incurred, it is my finding that Metro Bank could have reduced the overall impact on 
Mr and Mrs M.Considering everything, I agree with our investigators recommendation that Metro Bank 
should pay Mr and Mrs M £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience they 
experienced as a result of its actions.
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against Metro Bank PLC. I 
do not think it was fair and reasonable for Metro Bank PLC not to refund the amount 
Mr and Mrs M lost though becoming a victim of a scam.
I now direct Metro Bank PLC to:
Refund Mr and Mrs M for the total of £10,000 they lost; less any sums already 
refunded (£10.20).
On the £8,800 lost from the savings account, pay the interest rate of the savings 
account at the time  as this was where these funds originated. This should be paid 
from the date of the loss to the date of the settlement. 
Pay simple interest on the remaining £1,200 (less £10.20) paid to the scammer from 
Mr and Mrs M's current account, from the date of the loss to the date of the 
settlement. The interest rate should be 8% a year.  
Pay £150 compensation to Mr and Mrs M for the material distress and inconvenience 
they experienced. 
 If Metro Bank is legally required to deduct tax from the savings interest, it should send Mr and Mrs M 
a tax deduction certificate so they can claim it back from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
  HM Revenue & Customs requires Metro Bank to take off tax from this interest. Metro Bank must 
give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Metro Bank PLC should calculate and pay compensation as I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman