DRN-2686941
The complaint
Mr P complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited valued his endowment policys 
maturity value at the wrong time, causing him a financial loss.
What happened
Mr P held an endowment policy with Aviva that had a maturity date of 28 February 
2020. The policy was unit-linked, meaning Mr Ps contributions had purchases units 
in a fund. The value of the units varied and was calculated daily.
Aviva wrote to Mr P on 5 February 2020 with information regarding his policys 
maturity. It explained that the maturity value of his policy depended on the unit price 
at maturity. The letter explained that the maturity payment could take up to 7 days to 
reach the nominated account.
On 28 February 2020 Mr P called Aviva to ask why he hadnt received his payment 
and found out that the value would taken at the end of the business day. At the close 
of business on 28 February 2020 Mr Ps policy was valued at £31,383.64. And this 
sum was transferred to Mr Ps account on 4 March 2020.
Mr P complained to Aviva that his policy should have matured first thing on the 
morning of 28 February 2020. And because it was valued higher at that time hed lost 
out financially.
Aviva explained that all of its policies, like Mr Ps, have their maturity value calculated 
from the unit prices at the end of the date of maturity. 
Mr P didnt agree and brought his complaint to us.
After looking into it, our investigator didnt think that Mr Ps complaint should be 
upheld because she didnt think it was unreasonable for Aviva to use the valuation at 
the close of business on the maturity date. And the time taken to then process Mr Ps 
payment was in line with the expectation hed been given.
Mr P doesnt agree because he believes that when something matures on a given 
date, then it should be at midnight. Which in this case would have meant the 
valuation from the close of business on 27 February 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for these reasons:
Ive considered whether Mr P was led to believe that his policy valuation would be 
taken at the close of business on 27 February 2020, but I dont think he was. Ive 
seen no evidence that he was told, in writing or during his calls to Aviva, that would 
be the case. The pack he was sent on 5 February 2020 explained that the selling 
price for units varied daily, and that the final policy value would depend on that price 
at maturity.
I dont think its unreasonable for Aviva to have used the unit price on the maturity 
date rather than the day before it matured. And for this policy that price was 
determined at the end of the business day. This approach ensures consistency and I 
think its a fair and reasonable way to deal with the issue of valuation. So I dont think 
Mr P was treated unfairly.
Mr Ps maturity pack explained that the payment couldnt be made before the 
maturity date. And that Aviva would write to Mr P to confirm when the payment was 
made, which may then take seven days to reach Mr Ps account. I think that this 
process was followed, so Aviva provided Mr P with the service that they had led him 
to expect.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint about Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman