DRN-2974166
The complaint
Mr T complains QIC Europe Ltd have incorrectly categorised his car as a total loss and 
deducted salvage costs from a settlement when dealing with a claim under his motor 
insurance policy.
A representative has brought this complaint on behalf of Mr T, but for simplicity Ive just 
referred to him in this decision.
Other parties have been involved in this complaint, but Ive only referred to QIC in this 
decision as theyre responsible for it.
What happened
Mr T took out an insurance policy with a broker in 2014. The value of his car was set at 
£5,000 at that time  which is what his insurer would pay if his car was declared a total loss 
(written-off)  and renewed every year since without Mr T amending that value.
Mr T was involved in an incident on 8 November 2020. QIC decided Mr Ts car was a total 
loss and made an offer of settlement which he wasnt happy with. After disputing it, he 
received a further offer which he still wasnt happy with  in part because it included QIC 
keeping Mr Ts car or returning it and deducting a proportion of the settlement, known as 
salvage. He didnt think the car should be deemed a total loss as the cost of repair is less 
than the market value  and didnt think QIC had acted appropriately in deducting the 
salvage costs, as the car was his.
QIC said following Mr Ts incident on 8 November 2020 his car was deemed a total loss. 
They said theyd carried out a desktop valuation, which came up with a figure of £3,415, 
which, once the excess of £400 had been taken into account, gave a net payment of £3,015. 
As Mr T disputed this, QIC arranged for an in-person inspection to take place  and they 
came up with a valuation of £6,500. But, as Mr Ts policy had an upper limit of £5,000 if the 
car is deemed a total loss, thats the figure they used. So, QIC offered £4,600 (the valuation 
of £5,000, minus the excess) if they kept the car as salvage. If Mr T kept the car, then the 
payment would be £2,975 which he didnt accept. QIC said theyd made an interim payment 
of £2,975 to Mr T, but they wouldnt amend the valuation any further.
These offers were made while liability was still in dispute, meaning Mr T would need to pay 
his excess and QIC were holding him to the policy limit of £5,000 for the market value of the 
car. But after QIC resolved this with the other insurer admitting liability, they changed the 
offer  as now he was eligible to receive all his losses from the other insurer. They set out 
their offer as:
£6,500  gross valuation
£1,625  salvage value
£4,875  net of salvage
£2,975  already paid to Mr T
£1,900  due to Mr T (assuming car is retained for salvage by Mr T)
Unhappy with this Mr T asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so and 
found that QIC had acted fairly in the way theyd dealt with Mr Ts claim.
Mr T didnt agree. He said this accident was a non-fault claim, so when subject to a tort, 
would be entitled to the full cost of repair. And he provided a link to a legal judgement to 
evidence his point. In addition, Mr T didnt think QIC had acted in his best interests under the 
Insurance Conduct of Business sourcebook (ICOBS) rules 2.5 and 2.5.1  as they didnt tell 
him the limitations of his policy would deny him his lawful entitlement. As a result, theyve 
acted in conflict to his lawful entitlement, which is covered by ICOBS 8.3.3.
Mr T disputed the car was a total loss, so he should be paid the cost of repair. And QIC 
arent entitled to the salvage of the car unless its a total loss and they do retain the salvage. 
Mr T felt any counter-argument would lead to a potential claim under the 
Interference of Goods Act 1979 for the loss in value on the car as a result of applying a 
categorisation on a car QIC doesnt own.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain my role is to take into account the law, industry guidance, 
regulations and good practice  and decide things on a fair and reasonable basis. Im 
required to decide cases on their own facts  while taking into account the above. 
Have QIC fairly recorded Mr Ts car as a total loss
The starting point to determine this is to consider the valuation of the car, and the estimated 
cost of repairs.
The valuation ultimately placed on the car was £6,500. Ive not seen either party call that into 
question, so Ill accept both parties agree with this. The estimated cost of repairs was 
£5,619.85. Again, Ive not seen either party disputing this, so Ill take it as both parties accept 
this.
Im aware that insurers will sometimes say a car is a total loss when the estimated cost of 
the repairs is as low as 60%. In Mr Ts case the estimated cost of the repairs is 86.45% of 
the valuation of the car. This is the estimated cost of the repairs, not the actual amount itll 
ultimately cost  as further damage could be found once a garage begins work on a car. 
Because of this, QIC took the decision to say it was uneconomical to repair the car.
 This is allowed under the policy terms Mr T had with QIC, where they say:
Section 2  Loss of or Damage to Your Vehicle
2.2 Total Loss
We will normally declare your vehicle a total lossif we deem the cost of repairing your 
vehicle as uneconomical
If your vehicle is declared a total loss as a direct result of an insured event, we will offer 
you a monetary amount as compensation. Once you have accepted our offer, your vehicle 
will become our property.
So, it would seem QICs actions are allowed under the policy terms. Id also deem them fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. The total cost of repairs is 
estimated at 86.45% of the cars value which is very high. 
Mr T has argued that, in the law judgement hes provided, hes entitled to the full cost of the 
repairs. Ive read the judgement and cant see that it makes any reference to situations 
involving cars that have been fairly deemed a total loss  as Ive decided Mr Ts has. 
With that in mind, Im satisfied QIC have acted fairly in treating Mr Ts car as a total loss and 
arent required to pay him the cost of the repairs.
Originally, QIC were going to restrict Mr Ts total loss claim limit at £5,000  as thats the 
declared value of his car. Im not sure thatd have been fair, as it was a market value policy 
he held. But, as thats not affected the outcome, Ive not considered it further.
Ive noted Mr Ts additional concern that QIC have categorised his car as a Category S total 
loss. The categories and definitions have been agreed between an insurers trade body, and 
salvage dealers. Category S is defined as:
Structurally damaged repairable (damage to structural frame or chassis, which can be 
repaired but the insurer has decided not to)
Ive seen that the chassis was noted in the engineers inspection report as damaged, and 
Mr T has told us since hes had it replaced  so it would appear to have been recorded fairly.
Ive noted Mr Ts comments that unless his car is a total loss (which Ive decided it is) and 
QIC are keeping the car (which theyre not) then QIC cant place this category on this car. 
Ive thought carefully about this, but Im not persuaded by Mr Ts argument. The wording on 
the Category S thats been recorded against Mr Ts car clearly sets out that the insurer has 
chosen not to repair the structural damage  so it follows they can record this, even when 
theyre not keeping the car. In addition, I think any future owner of this car would want to 
know it was a total loss in the past  which is true and accurate information. So, for that 
reason I also think they need to record it. Ill come back to this in more detail on the next 
section, but its not uncommon for policyholders to want to keep their car  so this record 
would appear to be appropriate in Mr Ts circumstances.
Given that, Im satisfied that a Category S total loss record is accurate, and I dont think QIC 
need to do anymore on this point.Are QIC entitled to deduct the cost of the salvage from the claim payment
When a car has been deemed a total loss, insurers become the legal owner of the car once 
their policyholder has accepted the payment. If a policyholder wishes to keep the car, then 
the insurer will usually deduct an amount theyd receive for salvage. Even though a car is 
damaged, it could potentially be repaired and made roadworthy again, or be sold off for parts 
 so the damaged car still holds some value, known as salvage. 
Mr T always wanted to keep his car, so in that case QIC deducted an amount of the value. 
This amount was 25% of the total value of the car. QIC have shown this is the amount theyd 
have deducted for anyone in Mr Ts circumstances due to their commercial deal with a 
salvage dealer. Due to that, and as Mr T wanted to keep the car, I think this is fair. So, I 
wont be requiring them to do anything further on this point.
ICOBS
Ive considered Mr Ts points regarding the ICOBS rules hes referred to  which Ive 
summarised briefly in my own words:
2.5  a firm has to act honestly and fairly
2.5.1  a firm has to act in the best interests of its customer
8.3.3  a firm has to manage conflicts of interest fairly
Mr T says QIC should have told him by applying the limitations of his policy, theyd be 
denying him his lawful entitlement (ICOBS 2.5). By not doing this, they acted in conflict to his 
lawful entitlement (2.5.1)  which then led to QIC breaching 8.3.3.
Mr T hasnt specified exactly how he understands QIC breached 8.3.3. But, these arguments 
are all based on Mr Ts car not being deemed a total loss  which, for the reasons Ive 
explained above, has been decided fairly by QIC.
Ive also thought about whether Mr T was referring to the ICOBS rules above when QIC 
didnt tell them that he could potentially claim from the other partys insurer, and then 
wouldnt be subject to the policy limit of £5,000 (which, as Ive said above, Im not sure would 
have been fair). But I dont think there was any requirement for QIC to have done this, and, 
in any event, after the other insurer admitted liability this was no longer a consideration of 
QICs, so Mr T hasnt been negatively affected by this.
Other issues
Ive seen during the course of this complaint that Mr T wanted his storage costs covered, 
and the costs for his professional representative to be paid as well.
Ive not seen any detailed arguments from Mr T on why QIC should be held responsible for 
these costs  nor have I seen theyve acted inappropriately or unfairly when handling Mr Ts 
claim. The main issue that, potentially, could give rise to additional costs is the dispute over 
the valuation. But its common practice to carry out desktop valuations initially for a total loss 
claim. So, I dont find QIC did anything inappropriate here  and within a week of Mr T 
disputing that valuation an in-person inspection had been ordered and carried out. So, there 
were no undue delays there either.
With that in mind, Ive not seen any reason to award Mr T any storage costs. And, generally, 
wed say its a consumers decision on whether to employ a representative, so wouldnt 
award their costs  and Ive seen no reason to suggest I should award Mr Ts costs in this 
case.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman