DRN-4108312
The complaint
Mr R says The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) has made a number of 
errors in calculating and informing him about his pension benefits.
What happened
Mr R took out a Scottish Amicable personal pension (Flexipension) in November 1986. 
Prudential are now responsible for the policy. His pension was a with-profits plan and it 
included a valuable guaranteed annuity rate (GAR). His plan was initially established with a 
retirement age of 60.
Mr R didnt take his benefits when he reached 60, so a default retirement age of 75 was set, 
although he could of course now take his benefits at any time he wishes.
In March 2022 Mr R contacted Prudential with concerns about information it had sent him 
about his projected pension benefits. These were captured by Prudential in the following 
terms:
I understand from your recent call that you believe you have been financially disadvantaged 
because bonus rates have decreased over the last ten years, but charges had remained the 
same.
You also said you believe the GAR had decreased from what was promised at [the] outset 
of your policy.
Prudential responded to Mr R on 22 March 2022. It described the sort of policy Mr R had and 
how bonuses were added to his funds representing his share of fund profits. It noted the 
effect of historically low interest rates and inflation on investment returns and more recent 
challenges such as the Covid pandemic. It rejected his complaint and summarised matters in 
the following terms:
The value of your policy was never guaranteed, only the way it is calculated, and it is 
dependent on the performance of the financial markets and the With-Profits fund. It is normal 
for the value of your policy to fluctuate in line with the performance of the With-Profits fund 
and bonuses declared.
The GARs you were promised when you started your investment have not changed and 
will be honoured between the ages of 60-75. Although the GARs used to calculate your final 
pension have not changed, the amount of pension you eventually receive will be determined 
by the value of your policy.
Mr R wasnt satisfied with Prudentials response so he brought his complaint to this Service. 
Either his concerns evolved or it didnt grasp everything that he was trying to get to the 
bottom of. In summary he told us that Prudential had:
- Provided an incorrect value for his guaranteed minimum retirement fund.
- Provided an incorrect value for his total pension pot.
- Used an incorrect GAR in its calculations.
Mr R provided various illustrations and statements hed received to evidence his case.
An Investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint, including seeking information from Prudential 
about matters it hadnt addressed in its final response letter to him. Ultimately he concluded 
that its explanation for the discrepancies Mr R had highlighted had been properly explained. 
He concluded Prudential hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr R disagreed with the Investigators view, but he didnt bring any new evidence or 
arguments to consider. As both parties couldnt agree to the Investigators findings and 
conclusions, Mr Rs complaint has been passed to me to review afresh and to provide a
decision.
I issued my first provisional decision in March 2023. I said I expected to uphold one element 
of Mr Rs case related to the GAR applied to his pension based on the evidence I had at the 
time. But that I needed to manage his expectations because Prudential might provide further 
evidence to show it was right. 
After engaging with my findings, Prudential did indeed find information it hadnt provided 
previously to support its position, and so in April 2023 I issued a further provisional decision 
setting out why I no longer expected to uphold Mr Rs case. I invited both parties to provide 
any final new evidence or arguments they wanted me to consider.
As neither party has provided further submissions, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my last correspondence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the extensive regulation around transactions like those performed by 
Prudential for Mr R. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it 
says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). 
These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at therelevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Prudential. As
such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Rs complaint.
Ill now consider Mr Rs main concerns in turn.
Prudential provided an incorrect value for Mr Rs guaranteed minimum retirement 
fund
Mr R said:
Please find enclosed an extract of my annual statement, covering 22 November 2019 to 21 
November 2020. The guaranteed minimum retirement fund on 21 November 2020 was 
£36,028.10. Also enclosed is an extract of my annual statement, covering 22 November 
2020 to 21 November 2021, where the guaranteed minimum retirement fund on 21 
November 2020 was £35,969.18, £58.92 less than what was guaranteed a year earlier, not 
including any additional bonus.
In responding to this query Prudential said:
the guaranteed minimum retirement fund value of £36,028.10 quoted on the annual 
benefit statement dated 21 November 2020 is incorrect. The correct value should have been 
the total of the sum assured and all the regular bonuses added up to the statement date 
21/11/2020 i.e.£35,969.18 (£20,667.60 + £1125.08 + £14117.74 + £58.76). However, the 
annual benefit statement incorrectly included the bonuses that were not due to be added 
until 10 December 2020 quoting the value as £36,028.10.
This was an isolated error that affected the November 2020 bonus statement only and led 
to the guaranteed minimum retirement fund being overstated by £58.92. We confirm that the 
guaranteed minimum retirement fund value of £35,969.18 quoted on the annual benefit 
statement dated 21 November 2021 is correct and the values quoted in the February 2022 
options letter were also correct.
I understand why the changing value of Mr Rs retirement fund for November 2020 
undermined his confidence in what he was being told by Prudential. And to compound 
matters, he was the one who had to identify the issue. But Prudential has told this Service it 
referred the issue to its technical team which then checked his policy and the application of 
bonuses to it. This enabled it to confirm it had been an isolated error.
Without evidence to show otherwise and given the work undertaken by Prudential to check 
Mr Rs policy, Im satisfied with its response.
Prudential provided an incorrect value for Mr Rs total pension pot
Mr R said:
the extract of my annual statement, covering 22 November 2020 to 21 November 2021 
states guaranteed minimum retirement fund on 21 November 2021 was £36,087.17On the 
retirement options letters, dated 2 February 2022, the Pension pot Value (excluding Final 
Bonus) [-] £24,037.28, £12,108.81 less than what the minimum should be as notified 3 
months earlier. Therefore the Total pension pot value (including Final Bonus) should be 
£49,366.59, assuming the Final Bonus payment doesnt refer to the value of the Pension Pot 
Value.
In responding to this query Prudential said:
The Total Pension Pot Value on 2 February 2022 was £24,037.28 (excluding Final Bonus) 
and £37,257.78 (including Final Bonus). The total pension pot value of £37,257.78 is the amount wed have paid if policy holder had chosen to take his benefits with us or transferred 
to another provider on 2 February 2022. Whereas the guaranteed minimum retirement fund 
value of £36,087.17 which doesnt include a Final Bonus is how much Mr Rs fund will be 
worth when he reaches his Selected Retirement age of 75 (16 May 2032). The guaranteed 
minimum retirement fund value includes the sum assured and all the regular bonuses 
already added to the plan except the final bonus.
Having reviewed the available documentation, I think Prudential has explained the 
differences in the values for Mr Rs pension pot, provided to him in different documentation, 
for different purposes. I also note that in the documents it sent to him on 2 February 2022 
there is a projected fund value for 16 May 2032 of £51,300 (accepting all the usual caveats), 
which appears to be more consistent with Mr Rs expectations.
Prudential used an incorrect guaranteed annuity rate in its calculations
Mr R said:
see the enclosed document titled guaranteed annuity rate. Using the retirement age of 
60, as a male, the GAR is 93, expanded to £93 per £1,000 in the Pension Fund. Also 
enclosed is the extract of the initial letter enrolling me in the pension schemedated 7 
November 1986, which states the GAR at 60 of 121.50, or £121.50 per £1000 Fund. This 
evidences the decrease in GAR for the age of 60, 30.6% lower. The current retirement age 
Im considering is 64, whichis 105, however, this should be closer to 137 using the 
[original letter].
In responding to this element of his complaint, Prudential said:
The pension illustration from November 1986 was a pre-sale illustration and the amounts 
quoted were in no way guaranteed. The 1986 illustration:
-Was using an assumed pension rate for the purpose of the illustration.
-Was not using a guaranteed annuity rate, and the guaranteed annuity rates have 
remained static since the purchase of the policy.
The pre-sales illustration was based on current annuity rates at the time, which werent 
guaranteed, and were higher than the guaranteed annuity rate detailed in the T&Cs that 
were provided to Mr R when the policy started. I would also mention the illustration does not 
reflect the plan that was set up as the illustration shows a gross monthly premium of £25 and 
the plan was set up with a gross premium of £20.
The GAR rates applicable to the policy are those set out in the T&Cs provided and these 
rates have not changed and will be honoured between the ages of 60 and 75.
The Investigator asked Prudential whether it had any other documentation from the point of 
sale or any other communications sent to Mr R since, to show the GAR applicable to his 
pension plan. It responded in the following terms:
We are unable to provide any further documentation from the POS and are unable to locate 
anything in our records where in the GAR rates have been issued to the policy holder in 
other communications.
I said that I found it troubling Prudential didnt appear to have a proper record of the GARs 
that applied to Mr Rs policy at the time he took it out. While I accepted the passage of time 
means some information from the sale isnt available, presumably his wasnt the only policy 
which transferred from Scottish Amicable. And retaining information about what GARs 
applied to what policies at what times was important for the organisation to know.Aside from the conflicting testimony of both parties, I had two pieces of evidence to weigh.
The first was the terms and conditions document provided by Prudential. It says this 
wouldve been issued to Mr R and it showed the GARs that should be applied to his policy. 
The main problem for Prudential was the document it provided had no contemporaneous 
date on it. I dont know what period it applied to or when it was issued.
The other piece of information I had was the illustration Mr R received on 7 November 1986. 
It set out an assumed pension rate at age 60 of £121.50 per £1,000 in the fund. He thought 
this was from a set of GARs that should apply to his policy.
While I thought there were weaknesses in relying on illustrations, there was also a 
reasonable argument that it wouldve been odd if Prudentials predecessor had knowingly 
used a GAR that wasnt applicable at the time. While investment projections are necessarily 
moving feasts, GARs applicable to policies shouldve been firm.
On the basis of the available evidence as of March this year, I was tending towards 
upholding this element of Mr Rs complaint. However, I went on to manage Mr Rs 
expectations. Obviously, he would only be entitled to the GARs that were applicable to his 
policy. If Prudential could evidence, after a more thorough investigation of its archives that its 
assertions were correct, then Id be likely to change my mind. It has been able to do this.
My initial conclusions about this matter were a finely balanced judgement based on the initial 
evidence submitted by both parties. For example, I note the illustration from 1986 was 
ambiguous, referring to an applicable pension rate, not a GAR or a current pension rate. In 
any event, Prudential has now provided me with additional documents to review. Im grateful 
for the digging it has done which I hope will now provide Mr R with the reassurance hes 
wanted from the outset.
Information provided by Prudential include system screen shots which it says show no 
changes have been made to Mr Rs policy since it was set-up. It points to information about 
the early retirement options available through his policy and how these were recorded 
correctly.
However, the most significant evidence Prudential had submitted is contained in a company 
circular titled Introduction of Flexipension (First Series) Withdrawal of Personal Pension 
Policy. This is dated 18 November 1976 and belonged to the Scottish Amicable Life 
Assurance Society. Its a 33-page document that sets out the background to its new pension 
product and how it would work. On page 13 of the circular it provides the following table of 
guaranteed and current annuity rates:I think this clearly shows Mr Rs pension had a GAR which for the age of 60 was £93 for 
each £1,000 of his fund. And so on.
Further, Prudential also re-sent the terms and conditions booklet it had previously sent to 
this Service. My main reservation about this document was that it had no contemporaneous 
date incorporated. Ive examined this booklet again. I note on page 9 of 10, in the bottom left 
hand corner there is the following reference R269/11/83. I think its more likely than not this 
document was published in 1983. Although not definitive, its strong corroboration of the 
circular, which itself it sufficient to give me confidence Prudential has offered Mr R the 
correct GAR.
In accepting my initial provisional decision, and understanding the basis for it, Mr R asked if 
Prudential were able to evidence that the GAR he took out was different from the illustration 
he received, would he be able to take action against Scottish Amicable.
Id made the following observations. Prudential is responsible for his policy, and that means 
paying him the right benefits, as contracted to in 1986. The Scottish Amicable documents 
now produced by Prudential from 1976, confirms the correct GAR applicable, as it has 
offered. And Scottish Amicable Life Assurance Society is a dormant company.
Although Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint, I hope the investigation into his concerns now 
gives him reassurance on this important matter.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman
