DRN-2416176
The complaint
Mr B complains that Exeter Friendly Society Limited (trading as The Exeter) didnt allow him 
to reinstate his income protection policy.
What happened
Mr B held an income protection policy with The Exeter since March 2011. He got in touch 
with The Exeter on 17 February 2020 to say he wanted to cancel his policy. He says he 
wanted to use the premiums towards an operation he was having.
The Exeter confirmed that the policy would be cancelled on 24 February 2020. And it said 
that as long as Mr B had paid the premiums up to the date of cancellation, he had 14 days 
from the cancellation date to reinstate the policy. So, he had until 9 March 2020 to change 
his mind.
Mr B says that the operation he wanted to use the future premiums for didnt go ahead. So, 
he got in touch with The Exeter on 18 March 2020 to say that he wanted to reinstate this 
policy.
The Exeter said that as this was outside of the 14-day period, he had to take out a new 
policy, as it couldnt reinstate the previous one. And to do so, Mr B would need to apply 
through a financial adviser, as it didnt accept applications through individuals.
Mr B wasnt happy with this, as hed held the policy for almost a decade. He says hes been 
a loyal customer and never missed a payment. He wants The Exeter to reinstate the policy, 
as he doesnt think its fair that he now needs to take out a new policy through a financial 
adviser.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think The Exeter had done anything 
wrong here. It had given Mr B 14 days to change his mind, and Mr B had got in touch with 
The Exeter after this. She also didnt think The Exeter had done anything wrong by saying 
Mr B needs to apply through a financial adviser. She noted this is what hed done when he 
took out his policy originally.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators findings. He says that if its a requirement to go 
through a financial adviser to take out the policy, surely there should be a similar annual 
review to see if the product was still suitable. This hadnt happened while hed had the 
policy. As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute whats happened here. Mr B cancelled his policy. The Exeter gave him 
14 days to change his mind to reinstate the policy, and Mr B changed his mind after that. I 
think The Exeter acted fairly and reasonably by giving Mr B 14 days to change his mind after 
he had said he wanted to cancel his policy. And I dont think The Exeter was required to 
reinstate it when Mr B changed his mind after that.
I can appreciate Mr Bs frustration that if he wants an income protection policy with 
The Exeter, he now needs to take out a new one through a financial adviser. But I think its 
for The Exeter to decide how it sells its policies. And I dont think this means that there 
should also be an annual review carried out to make sure the policy is suitable. By nature, 
an income protection policy is a long-term policy. If Mr Bs circumstances changed over the 
term of the policy, it wouldve been for him to review it to make sure the policy was still 
suitable for him.
Its unfortunate that Mr B decided to cancel his policy but changed his mind a month later. 
But having considered everything, I dont think The Exeter acted unfairly by not reinstating 
Mr Bs policy, or by saying that Mr B would need to take out a new policy through a financial 
adviser.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman