DRN-3346033
The complaint
Mr G complains about Fund Ourselves Limited (FOL) in relation to the following:
- he did not agree with this loan and did not understand why the loan was issued 
to him.
- he did not understand the terms of the loan agreement.
- he asked for the interest and any charges to be frozen and/or stopped for two 
reasons  firstly as he was going through a bad time financially and secondly to 
give him a breathing space to consider his options.
- later, having cancelled it, he considered the agreement void and so he complains 
hes been charged interest during the withdrawal notice period when he should not 
have been.
Mr G also says that his long term mental health issues have not been considered and 
accommodated by FOL.
What happened
FOL sent to us a copy agreement between it and Mr G dated 1 January 2022. It seems that 
Mr G applied for an £800 loan and it was approved. The arrangement fee was £400 and the 
term was 174 days during which Mr G was due to pay £266.67 each month for six months. 
The total amount to pay was £1,600.
Mr G, in this complaint was not complaining that the loan was lent irresponsibly and so 
I have not approached Mr Gs complaint from that perspective. Hence the reason I have 
been careful to list all the complaint points Mr G has said to us and to FOL in the first part of 
this provisional decision. Now I understand that Mr G does wish to complain about 
irresponsible lending and that will form part of a new complaint. FOL has been informed.
On 4 January 2022, a few days after the loan was approved, Mr G emailed FOL to say hed 
tried to sort this out on the telephone but had not been able to and so he had emailed to 
make a formal complaint and he sent that email to the correct complaints email address for 
FOL. He asked for charges and interest to be frozen or stopped because he was going 
through a bad financial time and he wanted time to think of his options and he was dealing 
with mental health complications.
His complaint was acknowledged the next day on 5 January 2022 in which FOL informed 
Mr G that it had eight weeks to investigate and respond to his complaint. And FOL reminded 
Mr G that as he was within the 14 day cooling off period he could return the funds and 
cancel the agreement. 
The terminology cancel and withdraw often is used interchangeably. The import of that 
email message was that Mr G could change his mind about the loan if he wanted.
Mr Gs response was that unfortunately he had some issues with his debit card and his 
access to internet banking and it might take until 20 January 2022 to sort out. So, he asked 
for any added interest to be removed and for the account to be frozen. On 7 January 2022 
Mr G emailed again asking for responses to his earlier emails and then emailed a second 
time on 7 January 2022 saying: I hereby request you end any agreement as such as I 
express my right to cancel. You must allow at least 30 days for any money to be returned.
FOL acknowledged his cancellation email the same day and said it was waiting for medical 
evidence from Mr G (so that request for medical evidence appears to have been the subject 
of other emails, copies of which have not been sent to us) and informing Mr G that in 
accordance with the agreement, interest would continue to accrue until it was repaid. It cited 
specific provisions of the loan agreement (paragraph 13) and that made it clear the interest 
charged was calculated daily.
On 11 January 2022 Mr G contacted the Financial Ombudsman and wanted a swift 
response from FOL as he was concerned hed be pushed over the notice period. He asked 
our adjudicator if his complaint would be affected if he paid off the loan and the answer he 
received was no. It seems that Mr G did repay it but we have no details as to how or when. 
Our adjudicator did expedite an email to FOL to explain that Mr G had referred his complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman.
On 18 January 2022 Mr G wrote to us to say: They still have refused to stop any interest
and charges or assist me any further or give me a final response letter.
Our adjudicator asked Mr Gs permission to send to FOL the medical evidence he had sent 
to us. That was then sent to FOL.
Soon after that, FOL did issue its final response letter (FRL) dated 21 January 2022 in which 
it said the following:
- that the daily interest was set out in the agreement Mr G had signed; and
- that it had acknowledged his cancellation notification on 7 January 2022 (the 
terminology used by FOL was withdrawal in accordance with the agreement);and
- the interest was chargeable daily until the full amount plus the interest had been 
paid and that had to be within 30 days and
- there was nothing further it could do except wait for Mr G to repay the loan as in 
the terms of the agreement. Therefore, Mr Gs complaint was not upheld.
FOL had explained in its FRL that
you have requested to stop/freeze the interest as you have informed us you are 
waiting for a new bank card, youre suffering from mental health, and that you did not 
agree to the terms. We asked you to provide proof that youre suffering from mental 
health so we can assess how we can assist you, however we are still awaiting 
documentation.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and her view was that FOL had 
acknowledged Mr Gs notice to cancel; that it had issued its FRL within the required eight 
week period; and that the agreement was clear in its terms relating to the daily interest. Our 
adjudicator said that Mr G had agreed to the loan terms electronically confirming he was 
content to proceed. So, our adjudicator did not think FOL had done anything wrong.
The part not addressed in the FRL, because FOL had said it had no evidence, was a part 
that our adjudicator was not able to address either. And that related to Mr Gs contention that 
his health issues meant he had not agreed to the terms of the agreement. And later, I have 
seen that Mr G had said to our adjudicator that he had been advised that the agreement 
would be voided if I didn't understand the terms because of my disability but the company 
itself still did virtually nothing to help me. This element will be addressed in the main body of 
the decision.Our adjudicator had been sent a call recording. It had been made by Mr G. I come back to
this later in the decisions.
Our adjudicator issued a second view in which she again invited Mr G to send medical 
evidence as to his disability in relation to the non-understanding of the agreement.
As for the complaint point about the stress caused during the complaint process, our 
adjudicator indicated that FOL had not had the time to investigate that and she was unable 
to address it.
Mr G was not content and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, it 
was passed to me to decide.
I have issued two provisional decisions. One provisional decision on 10 March 2022. After 
that I received fresh evidence from both parties and issued a second provisional decision 
dated 14 March 2022. I invited both parties to respond by 28 March 2022.
The ultimate position is that I said in my second provisional decision that I was planning to 
award Mr G a distress and inconvenience payment of £200. 
But, in line with my first provisional decision I was not planning to uphold other elements of 
Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G has responded to say he accepts my second provisional decision. 
FOL has acknowledged receipt of the second provisional decision but has not said more. 
For ease of reading and for completeness I am duplicating my two sets of provisional 
findings here. They are set out in smaller type to differentiate them from my final decision 
today. They both form part of this final determination. 
The first provisional decision dated 10 March 2022 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
There are multiple issues arising from this loan approved on 1 January 2022 and so I have used sub-
headings.
Preliminary finding on some recordings
I am not content to use the audio recording Mr G sent to us. I am not satisfied that this was a 
recording in which the FOL representative knew he or she was being recorded. And for Mr G to seek 
to rely on that now does not seem right. So, I am saying in this provisional decision that I have 
disregarded that recording.
Additional complaint point raised after adjudicators view
After Mr G had received our adjudicators first letter of opinion, in which she did not uphold his 
complaint, he made an additional point. Mr Gs view was that FOL has failed in what he describes as 
its duty of care towards him as he felt that when he telephoned the FOL representatives they did not 
treat him correctly and offered no help.This has not been investigated by FOL and it is not fair or reasonable for me to proceed on this point 
without giving FOL time to investigate that element. I am aware Mr G is keen to get this complaint 
resolved. But it is not appropriate for me to make any findings on this duty of care element without 
evidence.
So, I have had to balance the request by Mr G for this complaint to be moved forward to an 
ombudsman promptly, with the knowledge that investigation and gathering of evidence for the 
additional complaint point will cause delay. If I had paused and asked FOL for all its call recordings 
(which it may not have retained) then that would have taken time.
Its a matter for Mr G to respond to this part and if he wishes this to be investigated  either as part of 
this complaint or as a new complaint altogether  FOL needs to be given time to investigate and for 
the call recordings (if they have retained them) to be sent to us.
Without more, I am making no findings on this part.
Mr G did not agree with this loan and did not understand why the loan was issued to him and he did 
not understand the terms of the loan agreement.
Mr G used the words duplicated in my sub-heading in his email dated 4 January 2022 which was a 
few days after the loan had been approved and it was the first working day of the new year after the 
bank holiday break. The fact that he did not agree with the loan sounds like he was regretting having 
it and I notice that it was only a few days later he chose to cancel or withdraw from the agreement as 
he was entitled to do. The period after signing a regulated credit agreement when a consumer can 
have a re-think is commonly referred to as the cooling off period.
My view is that Mr G had the option to withdraw during that cooling off period, and that FOL pointed 
that out to him in its acknowledgement of his complaint on 5 January 2022 (just a day after he had 
complained). So, I do not think that I can point to anything that FOL has done wrong in relation to 
Mr Gs agreeing with the loan. And by reminding him he could cancel or withdraw upon repayment of 
the funds was FOL being of assistance to Mr G.
If, Mr G really was saying he did not understand the loan and therefore had not agreed to it then this 
raises the point about Mr Gs capacity. And I deal with that point here.
Mr G has raised several complaints at the Financial Ombudsman and for each one he has sent the 
same two (partial copy) documents to demonstrate some medical and mental issues he has had to 
deal with long term.
One is date stamped in 2008 and so it is not up-to- date and to that extent not satisfactory. But 
I accept that the condition to which that letter relates reveals a long term condition which may mean 
that Mr G may need assistance understanding things.
The other is undated and is a small part of a larger document - the full copy of which we have not 
seen. That indicates Mr G has, or had, a disorder which affects him in a particular way. And it also 
reveals an addiction of one kind. I do not mention any further details here.
I have reviewed this part of Mr Gs complaint in detail and this is the part which I do not think our 
adjudicator addressed and is one of the reasons I have issued a provisional decision. I address it 
under the next sub-heading.
Mental capacity
Mr G seems to be saying that his mental state may mean that he was not able to consider all the 
terms and conditions of the loan agreements. So, hes saying he never really understood the loan.
To consider whether Mr Gs complaint about his ability to understand the agreement and therefore 
whether, as part of his complaint, FOL did anything wrong, I have reviewed the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Consumer Source Book (CONC) Guidelines chapter 2.10  Mental Capacity 
Guidance. As a regulated business this applies to FOL and is relevant.
Reviewing the CONC Guidelines, provisionally, I do not consider that there was likely to have been a 
breach by FOL. And I say this for several reasons and one is because the date of the loan is 
1 January 2022 which was New Years Day and a public bank holiday and usually a date when many 
financial businesses are closed. So, from that I deduce that Mr G likely made his application on-line. 
So, its unlikely Mr G spoke to anyone from FOL.
Factoring that deduction into Mr Gs circumstances, and applying the CONC Guidelines, a firm (such 
as one regulated like FOL) when granting a consumer credit agreement should
consider the customer's individual circumstances.
CONC 2.10.4 Guidance states that:
A firm should assume a customer has mental capacity at the time the decision has to be 
made, unless the firm knows, or is told by a person it reasonably believes should
know, or reasonably suspects, that the customer lacks capacity.
And the FCA Guidance lists some behavioural indicators which, if the lender observes any, may lead 
to the firm having reasonable grounds to suspect that a customer may have some form of mental 
capacity limitation. These are in CONC 2.10.8 and are a guide list.
Mr G has not provided us or FOL with any incidents or factual matters which he thinks would have led 
FOL to thinking, or given reasonable grounds for it to suspect, that he had mental health issues, or 
lacked understanding. And as it was likely an on-line application then the details of that on-line 
application can be forwarded to me by either party within the two week reply date deadline I have 
given at the end of this provisional decision.
And even if FOL did have any reasonable grounds to suspect that a customer may have some form of 
mental capacity limitation, then CONC 2.10.7 guidance states this does not necessarily mean that 
the customer does not have the mental capacity to make an informed borrowing decision.
On current evidence, and assuming that the 1 January 2022 loan application was made on- line then 
I think its highly unlikely FOL would have had any reasonable grounds to suspect Mr Gs mental 
capacity limitation  if that is what Mr Gs long-term condition means for him.
And I says this for two reasons: with on-line applications on a bank holiday I doubt much that Mr G 
had spoken to anyone from FOL before proceeding with the loan.
The second reason is that another way that FOL would have known would be if Mr G had told FOL in 
his application documents about this aspect of his life which I think was unlikely when applying for 
(and having approved) a loan.
Over and above this, I have reviewed some of the other complaints Mr G has brought to the Financial 
Ombudsman about different financial institutions. My reading of them does not give me the impression 
Mr G had difficulty understanding a variety of elements surrounding the financial agreements and/or 
transgressions he was referring to in those other complaints.
I am planning not to uphold this part of Mr Gs complaint.
Mr Gs request to freeze and/or remove interest and charges during the withdrawal notice period
Mr G asked for the interest and any charges to be frozen and/or stopped for two reasons  firstly as 
he was going through a bad time financially and secondly to give him a breathing space to consider 
his options.Mr G has not sent to us any details to demonstrate that he may have been in financial difficulty at that 
time. So, I have not been furnished with any facts to substantiate this part of Mr Gs complaint.
I note that he asked for interest and charges to be frozen and/or removed if already applied, but the 
agreement was clear and without more, FOL had no reason to remove or freeze those interest 
payments.
And breathing spaces usually are applied when a customer is in arrears. This request by Mr G had 
been made within a few days of the loan being approved and before the first scheduled repayment 
date. And so, the issue of arrears had not arisen.
I cannot see that FOL had done anything wrong or contrary to the agreement. So, I am planning not 
to uphold this part of Mr Gs complaint.
Avoiding the agreement
Mr G has said that, having cancelled the loan agreement, he considered the agreement void and so 
he complains hes been charged interest during the withdrawal notice period when he should not have 
been.
Again, I have not received any documentation from either party that Mr G was charged interest or any 
charges during the withdrawal notice period. And so, I do not know that they were. But as Mr G is 
complaining about that then likely he was.
If Mr Gs argument stems from the fact hes saying he did not have capacity to understand what he 
was contracting into because he lacked the mental capacity, then I refer back to my earlier provisional 
findings where I cited CONC chapter 2.10 and the Guidelines for regulated businesses. Following on 
from those provisional findings in that section of my provisional decision, I think that Mr Gs argument 
is not persuasive.
And the legal position after a loan has been cancelled or a party has withdrawn is not something I can 
determine. The legality or otherwise of a contract is for a Court Judge to determine.
The FCA in its CONC 11.1 has rules in relation to the Right to Cancel. And I have reviewed
those.
And I have reviewed the legislation surrounding a consumers right to withdraw. The Consumer Credit 
(EU Directive) Regulations 2010 apply and fits alongside the CONC 11.1 provisions Ive just referred 
to. Regulations in that 2010 Statutory Instrument amend the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and inserted 
is section 66A (1) which provides:
The debtor under a regulated consumer credit agreement, other than an excluded 
agreement, may withdraw from the agreement, without giving any reason, in accordance with 
this section.
Here, reference to debtor will be Mr G and creditor will be FOL.
I have checked the definition section and the agreement Mr G entered is not an excluded agreement.
Sections 66A (9) and (10) provide:
(9) Where the debtor withdraws from an agreement under this section
(a)the debtor must repay to the creditor any credit provided and the interest accrued on it (at 
the rate provided for under the agreement), but
(b)the debtor is not liable to pay to the creditor any compensation, fees or charges except any 
non-returnable charges paid by the creditor to a public administrative body.(10) An amount payable under subsection (9) must be paid without undue delay and no later 
than the end of the period of 30 days beginning with the day after the day on which the notice 
of withdrawal was given (and if not paid by the end of that period may be recovered by the 
creditor as a debt).
This seems to be why the FOL agreement includes provisions along these lines and stipulates that 
interest is payable. I duplicate here paragraphs from the agreement:
13.5 The Borrower must pay the amount of credit borrowed without delay and no later than 
30 calendar days after giving notice of withdrawal.
13.6 The Borrower must pay interest accrued from the day the credit was provided to the day 
it is repaid. Such interest will be calculated at the interest rate under this agreement. The 
amount of interest that will accrue per day is £6.4.
I think that last figure is meant to read £6.40.
So, it does seem correct that Mr G did have to pay the interest plus the principal sum borrowed.
I am planning not to uphold this part of Mr Gs complaint.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I am planning not to uphold Mr Gs complaint.
The second provisional decision dated 14 March 2022
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Preliminary finding on some recordings]
I have altered my view from my first provisional decision. The recording Mr G sent to us on 
11 February 2022 does appear to have been one made by FOL and not Mr G. FOL responded to 
Mr Gs request for Subject Access Request (SAR) in record time and sent all Mr G wanted, including 
all telephone recordings, on the same day.
New evidence received
All the call recordings requested by us have been sent to us by FOL and I have reviewed them all.
FOL has now confirmed that Mr G did apply for the loan online and did not speak to any of its 
customer services personnel on that day. When Mr G applied on-line he gave a card number ending 
*8318.
FOL has informed us that its records show that he repaid the first loan on 1 February 2022. Mr G 
repaid £998.40 using a card ending *6580 and paid £198.40 in interest. FOL repeated what it has 
made clear before that, where a customer has elected to withdraw from a loan, interest is still 
chargeable up until the loan has been repaid in full and was confirmed in the loan agreement.
FOL has said that Mr G applied for a second loan which was denied on 5 February 2022.
Additional complaint point raised after adjudicators view
This is what I said in my first provisional decision. I have duplicated it in smaller type to differentiate it 
with my second provisional decision on this part issued today.
After Mr G had received our adjudicators first letter of opinion, in which she did not uphold 
his complaint, he made an additional point. Mr Gs view was that FOL has failed in what he describes as its duty of care towards him as he felt that when he telephoned the FOL 
representatives they did not treat him correctly and offered no help.
This has not been investigated by FOL and it is not fair or reasonable for me to proceed on 
this point without giving FOL time to investigate that element. I am aware Mr G is keen to get 
this complaint resolved. But it is not appropriate for me to make any findings on this duty of 
care element without evidence.
So, I have had to balance the request by Mr G for this complaint to be moved forward to an 
ombudsman promptly, with the knowledge that investigation and gathering of evidence for the 
additional complaint point will cause delay. If I had paused and asked FOL for all its call 
recordings (which it may not have retained) then that would have taken time.
Its a matter for Mr G to respond to this part and if he wishes this to be investigated  either as 
part of this complaint or as a new complaint altogether  FOL needs to be given time to 
investigate and for the call recordings (if they have retained them) to be sent to us.
Without more, I am making no findings on this part.
Mr G responded to say that he did want the complaint looked into further.
Now I have received and listened to eight call recordings between Mr G and the various FOL 
Customer Services representatives in January 2022 (of which two either did not connect or the FOL 
representative could not hear Mr G). So, I heard full conversations on six calls in January 2022. And 
I listened to two recordings in February 2022  one was where Mr G called to pay the full balance and 
the other was when he telephoned to make the SAR request.
Having reviewed them all I have to agree with Mr G that the customer service he experienced during 
some of those calls in January 2022 were not to the standard of what Id expect. Nothing in the 
February 2022 calls caused me a concern. But two or three in January 2022 did (one of which was a 
22 minute call) and I am planning to make an award to Mr G for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to him. I explain here.
There were occasions when it was clear Mr G was distressed and he used words and sentences to 
describe the extreme state of anxiety he was in. Often  not always  those deeply concerning parts 
of what Mr G was saying were met with phrases from the FOL representatives such as this is the 
process or you have to contact complaints team by email and we do not receive complaints over the 
phone.
On one call Mr G asked if there was a manager who could help him or assist him to sort out the 
concern he had about having to pay interest, but this request was not acceded to and met with the 
manager is not available. I would at least have expected that the FOL representative could have 
arranged for a manager to call Mr G back. Or for him to be passed to another more senior person, 
especially having heard what Mr G had been saying during the call leading up to that point.
And the import of the conversations were that Mr G wanted to pay off the loan to keep the cost down 
as he was upset about the interest being added despite having cancelled it. And he was not able to 
pay the loan down, because his card had been cancelled and he had to wait for a new one. So again, 
it may have been possible for Mr G to have paid in a different way and this was never discussed or 
offered to Mr G.
Added to which, I think that some of the FOL representatives showed a lack of preparedness as to 
what to do when a customer called into the FOL customer services line and said the sorts of 
distressing things Mr G was saying relating to his personal welfare. And so, I do agree that Mr Gs 
concerns were not met and this added to his distress and anxiety.
I am planning to award a distress and inconvenience payment of £200.
Other elements addressed in my first provisional decisionThe other parts of my provisional decision remain unchanged and I am planning not to uphold those 
parts which are listed here:
-Mr G did not agree with this loan and did not understand why the loan was issued to him 
and he did not understand the terms of the loan agreement.
-Mental capacity
-Mr Gs request to freeze and/or remove interest and charges during the withdrawal notice 
period
-Avoiding the agreement
My second provisional decision
My second provisional decision is that I am planning not to uphold Mr Gs complaint for most of the 
elements he has raised, but I am planning to award a distress and inconvenience award of £200 for 
that part where he says he was not treated correctly when he telephoned FOL.
What Ive decided  and why  28 March 2022 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has responded to say that he agrees with the second provisional decision and FOL has 
acknowledged receipt but has said no more. Therefore, I see no reason to depart from the 
outcome I came to following my second provisional decision. The findings for both 
provisional decisions together are repeated here.
For the same reasons given above, Fund Ourselves Limited needs to pay to Mr G a £200 
sum to cover the distress and inconvenience for that part of his complaint where he says he 
was not treated correctly when he telephoned FOL.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Gs complaint in part and I direct that Fund Ourselves Limited do as I have 
directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman