DRN-3815024
The complaint
Ms G has complained about the administration of her private medical insurance policy by  
Saga Services Limited and also about the increase in premiums during a time of reduced 
services.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. My decision concerns only the complaint about Saga, there is a related complaint 
about the underwriter which will be considered separately. The facts are not in dispute so Ill 
focus on giving reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to respond to every point made by the parties involved. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is the right outcome in this case.
Im grateful to Ms G for the email she sent in November 2022 setting out her ongoing 
concerns. I am only able to respond in this decision to matters already raised with Saga and 
to which it has had the opportunity to reply.
Having carefully reviewed all the evidence and representations, and although Im aware that 
Ms G will be disappointed by my decision, I dont find that Saga has done anything wrong. Ill 
explain why:
Saga told Ms G that she would not be covered for a cataract operation due to her 
pre-existing health condition. I understand that this was confusing for her as she had 
no recollection of being advised there was a pre-existing condition exclusion when 
she took the policy out. Saga doesnt underwrite the policy, but the information 
regarding exclusions is clear from her policy document.
Ms G was concerned that there had been a change to the scheme rules meaning she 
could only have one varicose vein operation per leg. I can understand why Ms G 
queried this. In fact Saga had previously explained the change - one surgical 
procedure per leg for the lifetime of the policy would be allowed. I can see that Ms G 
accepted this change when she renewed her policy in 2021.
I understand why Ms G was concerned about the rise in her premiums, particularly 
as she felt that due to exclusions in her cover she was paying more for less. However 
the pre-existing exclusion had always been part of her policy. Additionally the policy 
does clearly state that premium changes can be made with notice. 
Although Saga doesnt underwrite the policy, it does set the final premium. Saga has 
confirmed the factors that it takes into account when setting the premium for Ms G. I 
cant share these with Ms G, as how the premium is calculated is commercially 
sensitive. Nevertheless Im satisfied that Ms G hasnt been singled out. She has been 
treated in the same way any other policyholder with the same policy and similar 
circumstances to her own would have been. 
There has been a year-on-year rise, which isnt surprising, but I understand why the 
rise in 2022 felt significant. This may have been because in 2021 Ms G had been 
given a one-off discretionary discount of £320 and no discount had been applied in 
2022.
I do appreciate that Ms G continued to pay premiums for her cover throughout the 
pandemic when a reduced private service was available. But Ive considered the 
Covid-19 promise Saga made to its customers to return any exceptional profit it 
received as either a payment or a future premium reduction  I find that was fair.
In all the circumstances I dont find that Ms G has been treated unfairly or unreasonably by 
Saga. It follows that I dont require it to take any remedial action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman