DRN-1883145
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M compain that Society of Lloyds has turned down a cancellation claim they 
made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out an annual travel insurance policy through a broker. The policy 
renewed in September 2018. The policy schedule Mr and Mrs M were sent shows Mrs M 
had declared tachycardia, which Lloyds had agreed to cover.
In January 2019, Mr and Mrs M booked a cruise holiday and were due to travel in May 2019. 
In March 2019, Mrs M underwent surgery to remove a lump on her leg. But there were 
complications with her wound recovery and further surgery was scheduled. Mrs Ms 
consultant advised her against travelling, so Mr and Mrs M cancelled their trip. They made a 
claim on their travel insurance policy.
Lloyds turned down Mr and Mrs Ms claim. It said at the time of taking out their policy, Mrs M 
had been undergoing investigations into the lump on her leg since May 2017 and had had an 
ultrasound and MRA scan in October 2018. The policy specifically excluded cancellation 
claims where a policyholder was undergoing tests or investigations at the time of taking out 
the policy or booking a trip.
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with Lloyds decision and they complained. They said theyd 
told the broker about Mrs Ms investigations both in 2017 and 2018 at renewal and hadnt 
been told they wouldnt be covered. They felt the policy had been mis-sold to them. They 
asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. He felt the policy 
terms clearly excluded cancellation claims if a policyholder had been referred for 
investigations or waiting for the results of them at the time a policy as taken out or the trip 
was booked. He considered Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances fell within the scope of the 
exclusion. And he was satisfied that while some sections of the policy didnt cover claims 
which were down to pre-existing medical conditions; Mr and Mrs M wouldve been able to 
benefit from other sections of the policy.
Mr and Mr M disagreed. They maintained theyd been mis-sold the policy. The broker had 
told them theyd declared Mrs Ms investigations in 2017 and there was no need to declare 
them again until they got an appointment. If theyd known they wouldnt be covered at all, 
theyd never have taken out the policy or booked the holiday.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
First, I need to make it clear that in this decision, Im only looking at whether it was fair for 
Lloyds to rely on its policy terms to turn down Mr and Mrs Ms claim. Lloyds didnt sell the 
policy and so it wasnt responsible for the sales process or any information the broker 
mightve given Mr and Mrs M at the point of sale and at policy renewal. This means I cant 
look at whether the broker met its own regulatory obligations when it sold and renewed Mr 
and Mrs Ms policy.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for Lloyds to turn down Mr and Mrs Ms claim. Ill explain 
why.
I have a great deal of sympathy with Mr and Mrs Ms situation. It mustve been a very 
stressful and upsetting time for them, especially when Mrs Ms wound didnt heal as 
expected. In making my decision though, I need to consider whether Lloyds handled Mr and 
Mrs Ms claim promptly and fairly. And whether it applied its policy terms reasonably and met 
its duty not to turn down claims unreasonably.
So Ive first looked carefully at what the policy terms say. Lloyds has relied on the following 
term to turn down Mr and Mrs Ms claim:
YOU will NOT be covered under Section 1 -Cancellation, Section 2  Expenses arising from 
illness or injury, Section 3 - In-patient compensation, Section 4 - Curtailment and Section 5 - 
Personal Accident for any TRIP where at the time of taking out this insurance or booking 
each TRIP whichever is the later YOU:
a) are waiting for an operation, hospital consultation (other than for regular checkups for 
a stable condition) or other hospital treatment or investigations, or are awaiting the 
results of any tests or investigations. 
This term is also set out on the medical screening confirmation which appears to have been 
sent to Mr and Mrs M along with the policy schedule. A further question on the medical 
screening confirmation also asks:
 Within the last 2 years, have YOU, for ANY MEDICAL CONDITION, been treated as a 
hospital inpatient or been referred to, or care of, a specialist consultant?
I think the policy term is clear and was clearly set out on the policy documentation which was 
sent to Mr and Mrs M. The only medical condition which was declared and accepted for 
cover for Mrs M was super-ventricular tachycardia. Theres no mention of any investigations 
into the lump on Mrs Ms leg. So theres nothing to suggest that Lloyds knew about them or 
had agreed to cover them.
Ive looked carefully at the medical information Mr and Mrs M have sent us to decide 
whether I think Mrs Ms situation did fall within the policy exclusion clause. Her ultimate 
diagnosis was a seroma/lymphocele. On the claim form, Mrs Ms GP said that in March 
2017, Mrs M had had a lump on her leg for around 20 years and had noticed it was growing. 
She underwent an ultrasound in May 2017 and was diagnosed with a likely varicose vein.
In July 2018, Mrs M was referred to the vascular team and on 1 September 2018, it 
recommended she undergo a duplex and MRA to confirm a diagnosis. So its clear Mrs M 
was under investigation at the point the policy renewed. Mrs M underwent these tests and in 
November 2018, she was referred on to the plastic surgery team. It seems from her 
consultant plastic surgeons letter that she had an appointment booked to see him on 15 
February 2019 and that her diagnosis was still uncertain. So at the point the trip was booked, 
I think its most likely Mrs M was still waiting for a hospital consultation and investigations into the cause of the lump. On this basis, it seems Mrs Ms circumstances also fell within the 
scope of the exclusion clause when the trip was booked, as well as when the policy 
renewed.
Ive then thought about whether there was a link between Mrs Ms investigations and the 
cause of the cancellation. Her surgeon said Mrs M was keen to have her lump removed and 
this surgery happened on 12 March 2019. He said: the operation was unfortunately 
complicated by a lymphatic leakthis leakage of fluid from the wound prevented the wound 
healing in the expected time frame. The surgeon said things didnt settle and so he 
scheduled a second operation to try and speed-up her recovery. He also stated: due to her 
unexpected post-operative course, I advised Mrs (M) against going on her booked cruise.
On balance, Im persuaded the available medical evidence does demonstrate a direct link 
between the cause of the claim and the investigations Mrs M was undergoing when the 
policy renewed and when the trip was booked. 
Im satisfied that Lloyds didnt know about Mrs Ms investigations and it hadnt agreed to 
cover them. Given I think theres a direct link between the investigations and the condition 
that caused her claim, despite my sympathy for Mrs Ms position, I think it was fair for Lloyds 
to rely on its policy terms to turn down the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman