DRN-2453093
The complaint
Mr H complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans provided 
him with unaffordable loans.
What happened
Everyday Loans provided Mr H with three loans as follows:
Date Amount Term 
(months)Monthly 
RepaymentAPR
04/01/2012 £2,300 24 £205.83 101.9%
23/08/2012 £5,000 36 £245.67 39.9%
10/04/2015 £6,000 48 £249.66 48.1%
Our investigator assessed the complaint and didnt think that we could uphold it. As Mr H 
disagreed with our investigators view, it has come to me to consider afresh and make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good 
industry practice at the time. And having done so, Ive come to the same view as our 
investigator and Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why I say this.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account things like the loan amount, the cost of 
the repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender 
should also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the 
borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Everyday Loans did what it 
needed to before agreeing to lend to Mr H.  
Before lending each time, Everyday Loans asked Mr H about his income and expenditure. 
Everyday Loans said it looked at Mr Hs payslips over a number of months and relied each 
time on the lowest amount it saw on the documents he provided when assessing what his 
monthly pay was likely to be. And after asking him about his expenditure each time, it 
worked out what Mr Hs disposable income would be. Everyday Loans said its checks also 
included: 
 Obtaining and reviewing up to two months bank statements from a customers primary 
bank account 
 Conducting a Credit Search 
 Carrying out a job check 
For all the loans, I can see that Everyday Loans calculated that Mr H should have had 
enough spare cash after paying all his monthly outgoings out of his take home pay to 
comfortably afford the loan repayments he signed up to make each time.   
I've looked through the results of the credit checks Everyday Loans carried out for each 
loan application. I think its fair to say that the information shown on the credit checks that 
Everyday Loans obtained didnt suggest that Mr H was excessively reliant on credit and his 
active accounts appeared to be reasonably well managed. 
Everyday Loans could see from its credit checks that Mr H was over his credit limit on one 
of his credit cards when he applied for loan 1. But there wasnt anything else that 
suggested any long term financial difficulty or any credit history shown suggesting that hed 
struggled to make repayments in the past on his credit accounts. And I dont think that the credit checks done for the later loans revealed anything 
sufficiently adverse to have been of concern to Everyday Loans. Bearing in mind that 
borrowers for this type of loan can have an impaired credit history and other outstanding 
debt  I dont think Everyday Loans saw enough on its credit checks to make it think there 
was any reason not to lend. 
Looking at the limited information shown on the bank statements that Everyday Loans saw 
when making its lending decisions, I cant see enough that wouldve reasonably suggested 
to Everyday Loans that Mr H was in significant financial difficulty or struggling to manage 
serious money problems. 
Like our investigator, I dont think Everyday Loans checks were proportionate before 
agreeing these loans. Mr H was entering into significant commitments with Everyday Loans 
and he was signing up to make substantial monthly repayments on the loans for the next 2, 
3 and 4 years respectively. The amounts he borrowed, the cost of the loans in interest and 
the length of each of these loans makes me think, on balance, that Everyday Loans should 
have done more to ensure it had a proper understanding of Mr Hs financial situation before 
agreeing to lend to him.  
But although I dont think the checks Everyday Loans did before agreeing the loans were 
sufficient that isnt enough for me to be able to uphold Mr Hs complaint. In order for Mr Hs 
complaint to succeed, I would need to be able to say that proportionate checks would have 
shown Everyday Loans that Mr H couldnt sustainably afford the repayments. 
Mr H hasnt been able to provide us with any more information or send us any further bank 
statements that would help me gain a fuller understanding of his actual financial situation 
when he was taking out these loans. 
So, I dont know what else, if anything, Everyday Loans is likely to have found out if it had 
done more and better checks. 
I havent seen enough overall to make me think that even if Everyday Loans had sought a 
fuller picture of Mr Hs finances it shouldve realised that these loans werent likely to be 
sustainable for him. Even if Everyday Loans had looked in more depth at Mr Hs finances, 
based on what I've been able to look at, I cant fairly say that Everyday Loans would likely 
have seen enough to make it think that Mr H was facing serious problems managing his 
money when he applied for these loans and so it shouldnt have lent to him. 
In coming to my view, Ive taken on board Mr Hs point that these loans made his money 
problems worse. I recognise that there was a risk that Mr H would be adding to his debt 
problems with this additional borrowing. But I dont think that Everyday Loans had any real 
reason to think that was necessarily going to happen as a result of its loans. Mr H had told 
Everyday Loans that at least part of loans 2 and 3 would be used to help pay other loans  
and these loans were both partly used to pay the previous loan hed taken out with Everyday 
Loans. And even though the loans wouldnt have cleared all Mr Hs outstanding debt I think 
he could potentially still have used the money to help him significantly lower his monthly 
credit commitments each time by paying credit card debt for instance. So I cant fairly say 
that Everyday Loans provided the loans irresponsibly or unfairly.
I appreciate that its frustrating for Mr H that he hasnt been able to obtain all the bank 
statements we have asked him to send us. But I must make my decision based on what 
I think is most likely taking into account all the information thats available, making some 
reasonable assumptions where theres only limited information. And I must be impartial. 
What Mr H has told me and the information he has sent me isnt enough for me to be able to 
uphold his complaint about these loans.I havent seen enough to say that Everyday Loans acted towards Mr H in any other way that 
was unfair or unreasonable. Im very sorry to learn that Mr H has been having a difficult time 
following this period of borrowing. And I appreciate that this outcome will be disappointing for 
Mr H. But I hope that setting things out as I've done helps explain how Ive reached this 
conclusion. And if Mr H would like help to manage his finances or to speak to someone 
about his situation theres more information about how to get free debt advice and other 
support on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award against Everyday 
Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman