DRN-3029184
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Ms B says Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Ms Bs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Ms Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Bs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Ms Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
The sale took place a long time ago, so neither party has been able to provide much 
information. Because of this, I need to decide what I think is most likely to have 
happened when the PPI was sold. Over the years, weve seen a number of Santander 
cases involving branch sales from around the same period Ms B was sold her PPI. Using 
what I know generally of Santanders sales practices at the time, I think its more likely 
than not Ms B would have been given an option to take out the PPI and that Santander 
would have gained her consent before adding it to her credit card account.
Santander recommended the PPI to Ms B, so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her. And the evidence about Ms Bs circumstances at the time, shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For example, Ms B was eligible for the 
cover and although she had existing means she still seems to have had a need for 
cover. 
The policy provided unemployment cover only, and there was nothing about Ms Bs 
employment or occupation which would have made it difficult for her to claim.
Its possible the information Santander gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Ms B as I concluded above, 
or too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the information 
she was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Ms B would have 
declined the cover had Santander done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Ms B would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Ms Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Santander should have disclosed the poor value and explained 
the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of 
making a claim.
But Ms Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Ms Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Ms Bs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Santander doesnt have to do anything to put things right.My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman