DRN-4122169
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about the way their motor insurer, West Bay Insurance Plc 
(West Bay) dealt with a claim they made on their policy. 
West Bay is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Throughout the claim Mr and Mrs H 
were also dealing with other companies who act as West Bays agents. As West Bay has 
accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in my decision, any reference to 
West Bay includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
In July 2022 Mr and Mrs H made a claim on their policy after the catalytic converter was 
stolen from their car while it was parked. West Bay took the car in for repairs and deemed it 
a total loss. 
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with the delay in their car being declared a total loss. They also 
said there was a delay in them receiving their settlement which they initially found to be too 
low and that they were not provided with a courtesy car. They added that they had to wait for 
long periods of time in order to speak to West Bays handlers.
West Bay considered Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and upheld it in part. It didnt think it delayed 
declaring the car a total loss or paying Mr and Mrs H their settlement. In respect of providing 
a courtesy car it said one wouldnt have been provided unless the car was repairable and 
until it was with one of its repairers. And a courtesy car would only be provided subject to 
availability. It accepted that it had experienced a rise in call volumes which would lead to 
long hold times. It offered Mr and Mrs H £75 for the poor service it provided. 
Mr and Mrs H werent happy with West Bays response and complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our Investigator who reviewed the complaint didnt think further 
compensation was due and so didnt uphold the complaint.
 
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. Among other things 
they said that West Bay initially said the car was going to be repaired and that this should 
have enabled them to get a courtesy car. They added that they should have had a courtesy 
car at least until 19 July 2022 when the car was declared a write off and that the policy says 
that a courtesy car would be provided whilst the car was being fixed. Mr and Mrs H also said 
that when West Bay said a courtesy car wouldnt be available it was too early to know 
whether the car was repairable or not or whether there was any courtesy car availability. 
They said West Bay thought the car was repairable even up to 5 July and then suddenly 
decided to send the car from a garage to a salvage company. They said it took West Bay 39 
days in total to deal with the matter including paying them their settlement. Finally, they said 
during one of their calls, one of West Bays handlers refused to speak to Mr H as he wasnt 
the main policy holder. 
Our Investigator didnt change her view. She said the car was collected on 7 July, declared a 
total loss the following day and that this was confirmed on 19 July. She didnt think there was 
undue delay that would warrant further compensation.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, with regret for the disappointment this may cause, I have decided not to 
uphold it. I trust that my reasons below will help Mr and Mrs H understand why I have arrived 
at this decision. 
Mr and Mrs H have sent a fair amount of information and documentation to us which I have 
considered but will not address individually in this decision. In doing so I dont mean any 
discourtesy to Mr and Mrs H but Id like to explain that as an informal dispute resolution 
service we aim to keep our decisions as concise and to the point as possible.  
The incident happened on 1 July. West Bay instructed an approved repairer two days later. 
Mr and Mrs H said they were told on that day that they were not going to be provided with a 
courtesy car. West Bay instructed a different provider  a salvage agent  two days later as 
it believed the car would be a total loss. The salvage agent collected the car on 7July and 
West Bay wrote to Mr and Mrs H the following day to say the car would be inspected. 
Mr and Mrs H said they also received an email from West Bay that day which said that the 
car may be a total loss. 
Mr and Mrs H were chasing for updates almost daily between 8 July and 20 July. The 
engineers report confirmed the car was a total loss on 13 July and Mr and Mrs H received a 
total loss offer of £825 on 19 July. They made a counteroffer for £999 the following day, 
West Bay said it was considering it on 28 July and accepted it on 3 August.
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with West Bay because they say it delayed declaring their car a 
total loss. From what Ive seen West Bay indicated early on that the car was likely a total 
loss but it waited for confirmation from its salvage agents. The total loss offer was made 
18 days after the incident and 16 days after West Bay instructed the first garage. In the 
circumstances I dont think there was such a significant delay so as to warrant awarding 
compensation. Engineers assessments can take days or weeks to come through and I dont 
think West Bay caused any avoidable delay in reviewing the engineers evidence and 
coming up with an offer. 
I think there was potentially a delay in accepting the £999 offer but West Bay had to confirm 
this with its engineers which I think is reasonable. Also from what Ive seen West Bay used 
an online valuation guide before making the £825 offer and so I dont think its original offer 
was unfair in the first place. So overall I dont think its actions warrant further compensation. 
Mr and Mrs H also said that they should have been provided with a courtesy car, at least 
until theirs was declared a total loss. The policy says that the provision of a courtesy car is 
subject to availability and the recommended repairers terms and conditions. And the first 
page of the policy, which Mr and Mrs H referred to, says that a courtesy car will be provided 
whilst an approved repairer fixes the car. The policy doesnt say a courtesy car will be 
provided if the insureds car is a total loss. This isnt unusual and I am aware of other 
insurance policies that have similar terms. So I think West Bay can rely on this term. 
As our Investigator explained a courtesy car is normally provided by the repairers who are 
undertaking the repairs. If the car isnt repairable a courtesy car wouldnt be provided  and 
as I said above, this is in line with the policy terms. As Mr and Mrs H say West Bay told them 
from 3 July that they wouldnt be provided with a courtesy car and also told them on 8 July 
that the car was likely a total loss. In the circumstances, where the car was most likely a total loss and seems to be a total loss early on (West Bays notes say this as early as 5 July when 
the salvage agent was instructed) I dont think West Bay was acting unfairly or unreasonably 
in not providing Mr and Mrs H with a courtesy car. Especially as, at no time, was the car 
actually being repaired, or subject of a repair programme. Mr and Mrs H said West Bay 
made the decision not to provide a courtesy car before the car was confirmed to be a total 
loss. But I think the circumstances indicated early on that there was a very good chance it 
would be. And I say this because Mr and Mrs Hs car was around 20 years old and so had a 
low pre accident value; and as far as I am aware a catalytic converter is quite expensive to 
replace.
Mr H was also unhappy that a handler he spoke to on 13 July refused to speak to him as he 
wasnt the main driver. Mr H said he pointed out he was a named driver but the handler still 
refused. I agree with Mr H that the handler should not have refused to speak to him on that 
occasion but this seems to have been a one off occurrence and so I dont think it would 
warrant further compensation.
West Bay has paid Mr and Mrs H £75 for the distress and inconvenience they suffered. 
Overall and bearing in mind that I think there was communication from West Bay to 
Mr and Mrs H, though not as frequently as they would have liked, I think this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman