DRN-4496742
The complaint
Mr R has complained that his pension provider - James Hay Administration Company Ltd 
trading as James Hay Partnership (James Hay) - allowed a three-year NS&I investment 
within his pension to be renewed in 2021 for a further three-year term without providing him 
with appropriate notification.
This has meant the funds are tied up until 2024 and cannot be invested in alternative funds 
until that time. Mr R states this only came to light when an application to transfer his James 
Hay pension to a new provider was submitted in October 2022. 
Mr R has stated that this has caused financial loss as the new intended investments have 
outperformed the NS&I bond.
Mr R is being represented in this complaint by his financial adviser, however for ease of 
reference I have referred only to Mr R throughout the decision below.
What happened
In February 2018 Mr R agreed to invest a sum of £120,000 in a three-year NS&I bond. 
On 21 January 2021 NS&I wrote to James Hay to inform them of the impending maturity of 
the funds and state that the maturity value of around £128,000 would automatically be re-
invested into a new bond if further instructions were not received. It was also confirmed that 
this new bond could not be closed early and would have to be kept for the full three-year 
term. There would however be a 30-day cancellation period. James Hay have stated they 
forwarded this information to Mr R on 25 January 2021 although a copy of this letter is not 
available.
On 26 February 2021 NS&I wrote to James Hay to confirm the maturity proceeds had been 
re-invested into a three-year Guaranteed Growth bond. This documentation was forwarded 
to Mr R on 4 March 2021. This documentation included the investment amount of around 
£128,000, the new maturity date (of February 2024), and confirmed Mr R has the right to 
cancel this bond within 30 days stating:
Should you wish to cancel this investment, please return the notice to us before 3 April 2021 
so we are able to sign and return it to the Fund Manager within the cancellation period.
In October 2022 Mr R was advised to move his pension from James Hay to a new provider. 
It was as this transfer request was being processed that it subsequently came to light that 
the £128,000 had to be retained in the NS&I product until maturity. 
Given the funds were tied up in the NS&I product a complaint was registered with James 
Hay.
James Hay issued their response in March 2023. This stated that they believed they had 
forwarded relevant documentation to Mr R on 25 January 2021 to inform him of the 
impending maturity.
They also confirmed that additional documentation was forwarded to Mr Rs home address 
on 4 March 2021 providing cancellation rights for the NS&I product.
Given this, James Hay concluded they had provided Mr R with the required information 
about the maturity / re-investment of the NS&I monies and as such were not upholding the 
complaint.
Unhappy with James Hays response Mr R forwarded his complaint to this service in 
August 2023.
Our investigator looked into things and concluded that James Hay had not acted 
unreasonably.
The investigator explained that the re-investment of the maturity into a new three-year 
product was not a decision James Hay had made, the re-investment was an NS&I process 
and as such not James Hays responsibility.
Whilst James Hay could not provide a copy of the letter they sent to Mr R on 
25 January 2021 notifying him of the impending maturity of the original NS&I bond, they had 
provided system screenshots showing a letter was sent.
In addition, they had been able to provide a copy of the 4 March 2021 letter which was 
correctly addressed and provided Mr R with the cancellation rights for the new NS&I bond.
As such the investigator concluded that James Hay had taken reasonable steps to inform 
Mr R that the original NS&I bond had matured with the proceeds re-invested for another 
three-year fixed term.
Finally, the investigator stated that whilst Mr Rs adviser may make use of other 
communication methods (sending information via email or recorded delivery) James Hays 
decision to send information via standard post was not unreasonable.
Mr R did not agree and stated that he did not believe James Hay, as his pension trustees 
had met their responsibilities. Mr R noted that James Hay was required to act in line with the 
trust deed and rules, act in the best interests of the scheme beneficiaries, act impartially and 
act prudently, responsibly, and honestly.
Mr R also stated that screenshots of James Hay systems were insufficient to state that the 
relevant paperwork had been sent to him correctly with it being inconceivable that he would 
have retained the NS&I investment given the returns that were being offered. The only 
logical conclusion being that the paperwork had not been received, with James Hay not 
making reasonable attempts to ensure Mr R was fully informed.
Our investigator remained of the opinion that James Hay had acted appropriately and as 
such was not persuaded to change their outcome.
As no agreement could be reached the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have firstly considered whether James Hay acted appropriately in allowing the NS&I 
investment to automatically be re-invested.Section 5.3 of the James Hay SIPP terms and conditions document confirms what services 
they do not provide. This states:
5.3 Services not provided by us
5.3.1 we are not responsible or liable to you or your SIPP for, and shall not:
1. provide investment, pension, or tax advice
2. assess the suitability of your investments for your financial circumstances
3. conduct full due diligence checks on any investments on your behalf
4. select your investments or monitor their performance
5. check the financial stability, and/or monitor the activities of any Investment Manager, 
Financial Adviser, Stockbroker or any other provider of investment accounts or 
other financial service: or
6. provide the services of a Financial Adviser, Stockbroker, or Investment Manager.
It is important to note that the documentation on file clearly shows that the NS&I product was 
automatically re-invested and that this is a standard NS&I practice. As such what I must 
consider here is whether James Hay ought to reasonably have interjected on Mr Rs behalf 
and stopped the auto re-investment taking place.
I do not believe it is reasonable for Mr R to expect this of James Hay. If James Hay had 
interjected and stopped the auto-re-investment taking place without any instruction from 
Mr R, this would have constituted them making an investment decision on his behalf. The 
terms and conditions referenced above make it clear that James Hay would not select 
investments on the policyholders behalf.
I have considered Mr Rs response to our investigators findings stating that it is 
inconceivable that he would have accepted another three-year product with the returns 
being offered by the NS&I product. 
However, the terms and conditions of Mr Rs pension are also clear that James Hay would 
not assess the suitability of the investments on Mr Rs behalf. In deciding that the returns 
offered were too low and opting out of the auto re-investment on Mr Rs behalf, James Hay 
would have effectively been deciding that the new three-year NS&I bond was unsuitable for 
Mr R  something that their terms and conditions are clear they would not do.
Mr Rs response to the findings issued also quoted the scheme trustees responsibilities and 
questioned whether James Hay had acted in line with these. As above, James Hay was 
required to act in line with the trust deed and rules, act in the best interests of the scheme 
beneficiaries, act impartially and act prudently, responsibly, and honestly. 
I do not believe allowing the auto re-investment of the NS&I bond to contradict any of these 
responsibilities when they are considered alongside the policy terms and conditions which 
clearly state what services are (and are not) provided.
I have gone on to consider whether James Hay acted reasonably in their communications 
with Mr R about the maturity and re-investment of the NS&I bond.
Here I would like to note that in any case where I am asked to issue a decision, I do so based on the evidence available. 
Where evidence is partially unavailable my decision is based on the balance of probabilities 
and what I consider most likely to have happened based on that evidence which is available.
Our investigator concluded that James Hay acted appropriately in providing Mr R with 
information in January and March 2021 about the impending maturity and subsequent re-
investment of the NS&I bond. I have reached the same conclusion for broadly the same 
reasons.
Mr R has stated that system screenshots do not adequately prove that a letter was sent. I 
would agree that ideally James Hay would be able to provide a copy of the letter, however in 
the absence of this, and in line with the above, I must base my decision on what I consider 
most likely to have happened.
I have been provided a copy of the March 2021 letter providing Mr R with his cancellation 
rights and can see that this was correctly addressed to Mr Rs home. The system 
screenshots giving details of the January 2021 and March 2021 letters provide the same 
information and as such I consider it reasonable to conclude that an entry being made into 
James Hays internal record keeping system is a good indicator that a letter was produced 
and sent to Mr R in January 2021.
In addition, and again in line with what our investigator has already said, even if a letter was 
not sent in January 2021, the March 2021 letter provided Mr R with his cancellation rights for 
the new NS&I bond, providing him with the necessary information and an opportunity to 
cancel the bond.
Mr R has stated that sending such information through the normal post is insufficient with 
there being other options that would have better ensured he received the information. Whilst 
there are other ways in which businesses can choose to send information to their customers, 
I do not consider James Hays use of the normal postal system to be unusual or unfair. The 
fact that James Hay will contact customers via post at their main residential address is 
confirmed in Section 8 of the terms and conditions document.
Other businesses may choose to use tracked delivery or special courier services or seek to 
check information has been received by using telephone or email follow ups, however this is 
an internal decision each individual business has the right to make.
I do not doubt Mr Rs statement that this information was not received, however this does not 
mean James Hay have acted unreasonably. The weight of evidence supports the conclusion 
that two letters were sent to Mr R at his correct address. The content of these letters would 
have informed Mr R of his maturity and re-investment, and James Hay are entitled to 
operate on the assumption that correctly addressed letters will be received by the intended 
recipient.
I have considered whether James Hays actions in notifying Mr R of the maturity and re-
investment were in line with their duty to act in line with the trust deed and rules, act in the 
best interests of the scheme beneficiaries, act impartially and act prudently, responsibly, and 
honestly. Whilst I appreciate that Mr R did not receive the documentation sent, and that 
there are alternatives James Hay could have used to either send or confirm receipt of that 
documentation, I do not believe the reliance on the standard post means James Hay 
operated outside of their duty as trustees.
Overall, I do not believe James Hay acted inappropriately in either the maturity and re-
investment of the NS&I bond, or in their notification of this to Mr R.As such I am not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
As per the rationale above, I am not upholding this complaint and do not require James Hay 
to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2024.
 
John Rogowski
Ombudsman