DRN-2217548
The complaint
Mr G says he only asked Allay Claims Ltd to check whether hed had payment protection 
insurance (PPI).  And had never authorised them to make a claim for him. He also says the 
signature they had wasnt his.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr G was told by his lender Ill call R that hed had successful PPI claims, 
and the amount of compensation hed been awarded. A few days after being notified Allay 
sent Mr G their invoices asking him to pay their fee for his successful claims. Mr G said hes 
never asked Allay to act on his behalf in making a PPI claim. And complained to them.
Allay said Mr G made an online application in May 2019 for them to carry out a free PPI 
check with his lenders. They said hed also signed a letter of authority (LoA) authorising 
them to make a PPI claims for him, should any PPI be found. 
In June 2019, Allay said they told Mr G that PPI had been found and sent him an online link 
for him to complete a PPI questionnaire. The completed questionnaire was returned to them 
and theyd submitted a claim to lender R on his behalf. They also said Mr G hadnt 
cancelled his agreement with them within the 14-day cooling off period. As his claims were 
successful, Allay said their fees were due. 
Mr G wasnt happy with Allays response and referred his complaint to us. He said he 
wouldnt have asked for the services of a claims management company such as Allay as he 
knew he could make the claim himself, which hed done around July 2019 with a free online 
service. He also said the signature Allay had wasnt his.
Our investigator said Allay had acted fairly and reasonably and in line with their terms and 
conditions. She said Mr G had authorised them to act on his behalf and hadnt cancelled the 
agreement. She said Allay could charge their success fee.
Mr G didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
It isnt our role to consider whether a signature is genuine or not, that would be for a criminal 
court to decide. Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the 
courts. This means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more 
weight on one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the 
information were given. Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I 
have to base my decision on what I think most likely happened. 
I can understand Mr Gs frustration as he is adamant, he hasnt asked Allay to act for him in 
making a PPI claim with his lender. So, Ive considered whether Mr G authorised Allay to act 
for him in submitting a PPI claim. And if he did, whether he let them know he no longer 
wanted them to work for him. And to see whether Allay has acted fairly and reasonably in 
their actions with Mr G.
Mr G has shown he made claims himself for mis-sold PPI with his lenders with a free online 
service. And in July 2019 he used this service to make a claim with lender R
But Allay has shown an online application for them to carry out a free PPI check was made 
by Mr G in May 2019. The personal details in this application correlate with the personal 
details Mr G has given this service. The application also needed details of Mr Gs lenders, 
and these details were also provided. A LoA would have been generated by the application, 
populated with the supplied information. And to be submitted a signature had to be added 
and this is what happened. I can understand Mr Gs frustration as he says he didnt sign the 
application. But the supplied information is specific to him, and the application would have 
been made for his benefit to seek redress for a mis-sold PPI policy.  So, on balance I think it 
would have been Mr G who completed the on-line application, and I think signed the LoA. 
Allays terms and conditions were also available to see. And in signing the LoA Mr G had 
agreed to them. Allays terms and conditions say:
By signing this agreement you are confirming that you are not in arrears and. are not and 
have never been declared insolvent, either by way of Bankruptcy Order/Debt Relief Order.
They go on to say:
We will notify you once PPI has been identified and submit your complaint to the lender.
I can see that in June 2019 Allay told Mr G that he did have a PPI policy with lender R.  
Allay also asked Mr G to complete a PPI questionnaire theyd sent to him through an online 
link. Allay has shown this questionnaire was completed through the link and returned to 
them. And theyd submitted it to Mr Gs lender in June 2019. And in July 2019 Mr Gs lender 
advised Allay theyd received and accepted the claim. So, I dont think there was anything to 
arouse suspicion that Mr G hadnt made this claim or that he hadnt authorised Allay to act 
on his behalf.
Allays terms and conditions say:
From the point we submit your complaint, you have a 14-day cooling off period during which 
you can cancel your contract with us. To cancel your contract with us, either call Customer 
Services on 0191 462 0000, email your cancellation request to cancellations@allay.co.uk, 
download a Cancellation Form from our website www.allay.co.uk or write to us at The 
Processing Centre, Trafalgar Street, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE1 2LA.
Allay has shown they notified Mr G theyd found PPI on 20 June 2019 and submitted his 
claim the same day. This meant Mr G had until 4 July 2019 to cancel within the 14-day 
cooling off period. And if Mr G was certain he hadnt asked Allay to work for him, he could 
have taken this opportunity to ask Allay about the agreement and to cancel it at no charge. I 
understand Mr G also made a claim through another service in late July 2019, but I cant see 
he asked Allay to cancel his agreement. And I dont think it was enough by Mr G not 
engaging with Allay to consider this as him cancelling his agreement with them.  Mr G had three successful claims with lender R. In August 2019 Mr Gs lender told him his 
claim for the mis-selling of a PPI policy was successful for his credit card ending *4029.  And 
they asked Mr G to accept their offer, and once accepted they would arrange payment 
subject to clearance of any arrears you may have. I can see, at the same time, they told 
Allay. I think this shows they saw Allay as Mr Gs representative. 
Ive listened to a call made by Mr G to Allay to discuss the offer for his credit card *4029, 
made by his lender. Mr G confirmed hed returned his acceptance to lender R, and asked 
how hed get the payment, whether direct from his lender or Allay, and how he could pay 
Allay their fee. At no point in this call did Mr G challenge Allay about his agreement, neither 
did he challenge the offer made by his lender or the fee Allay was asking him to pay. But I 
can see that lender R didnt refund the full amount back to Mr G, as he was in arrears with 
his credit card account. And it wasnt until October 2019 that the remainder of the funds, 
after settling his credit balance, was refunded to him. 
In Allays terms and conditions they clearly explained that their full fee would be payable 
whether the redress was received in whole or part by way of loan/arrears reduction, refund 
of premiums, and/or in cash. Mr G accepted the offer from lender R. This meant that, 
under the terms hed agreed to, Allays fees were due.
The agreement Mr G had with Allay was based on a No Win No Fee. This means Allay 
charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they actually 
undertook. Any work done on any unsuccessful claim would be done for free. Where a claim 
was successful, Allays fee may be more or less than the value of the work they actually did. 
This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. And Mr Gs claim was 
successful, Allays fees were charged in line with what Mr G agreed to and reflect the fee 
cap thats in place for PPI claims.
I can see Mr G asked to cancel his agreement with Allay in August 2019. But this was after 
hed been notified his claim for mis-sold PPI had been successful. And as his claim was 
successful, Allays fees are justified.
I know Mr G will be disappointed with my decision, but I think he did authorise Allay to act on 
his behalf. And he didnt cancel his agreement with them within the 14-day cooling off period 
or before he received an offer of redress. And his claims were successful. So, I think Allay 
has acted fairly and reasonably in what they have done, and they can charge their success 
fees.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman