DRN-4083043
The complaint
X has complained about the handling of his claim by Hiscox Underwriting Limited (Hiscox) 
under his home insurance policy following an escape of water at his home.
For the avoidance of doubt, the term Hiscox includes its loss adjusters, contractors, and 
agents.
What happened
Xs home was damaged by an escape of water in 2021 which caused extensive damage 
throughout his home. Hiscox accepted the claim and instructed a firm of loss adjusters to 
deal with the claim and they appointed contractors to carry out the repairs. The source of the 
leak wasnt located at the outset however it was eventually traced to a pipe under the 
bathroom floor and extensive works were required as a result.
X was unhappy about the delays in completing all work and about the way in which his claim 
was handled. He was also concerned that Hiscoxs contractors had charged for work it 
hadnt carried out. Hiscox apologised to X for what had happened and explained that there 
had been unexpected additional work and that its contractors had experienced staff 
shortages. It offered compensation of £150 to X, however X was unhappy with this. He 
therefore referred his complaint to this service.
The relevant investigator upheld Xs complaint. The investigator considered that Xs claim 
had been poorly managed and that there had been considerable delays. The investigator 
noted that X had to send many chasers for updates and make repeated requests for 
information. The investigators view was that Hiscox should increase compensation to £700 
in recognition of the trouble and upset caused. The investigator considered that it was 
reasonable that Hiscox had agreed to look into Xs allegation about its contractor charging 
for work it hadnt carried out. 
Hiscox didnt accept the investigators view. It felt that compensation of £700 was excessive 
and not aligned with similar awards for delays of a similar length. In the circumstances, the 
matter has been referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to consider here is whether the service provided by Hiscox to X was 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Ive also considered the submissions provided 
by both parties. Ive concluded that Hiscox didnt handle Xs claim fairly and reasonably in all 
respects and Ill explain why.
Turning first to what X has said, he thought Hiscoxs claims process had been very 
confusing in terms of the various agents that had been involved. He said that that hed been 
told there was a leak in February 2021, however the leak couldnt be located. Several 
months later, Hiscox contractors made a further attempt to locate the leak however this also 
failed. Xs own plumber then established that there was a major leak which extended under 
the bathroom, conservatory, and snug floors. A second set of Hiscoxs contractors located 
the leak under the bathroom floor, however X had to get his own plumber out to cap off the 
cold-water supply to the bath. X said it therefore took seven months to stop the leak.
X said that Hiscoxs appointment of the contractor turned out to be a disaster, causing us a 
huge amount of stress and angst. He said that they started work in January 2022 and were 
meant to finish at the end of March 2022 but only completed the work towards the end of 
August 2022, some five months later. He also thought that some of the work had been sub-
standard. He didnt think the flooring had been fitted properly and creaked and moved, 
whereas the previous flooring had not. He also felt that the underfloor heating wasnt as 
warm as in the previous bathroom floor and thought the contractor had laid the pipes too 
deep as theyd laid the screed incorrectly. X and his family couldnt face these floors being 
removed again and thought theyd just have to have to live with it.
X felt that the contractor had treated him and his family with contempt throughout the 
process. He considered theyd claimed for £7,500 of work which they hadnt done and 
thought that other claims had been inflated. X felt that the tradesmen themselves had been 
great however many left the contractors employment within a few months and considered 
that this was due to the way in which the contractor acted. He said that the contractor didnt 
have a plumber or joiner to complete the job. X said that he didnt move out of his home 
during the works as Hiscox had planned, as he didnt trust the contractors to complete the 
work satisfactorily and to the agreed schedule and specification.  He said that this saved 
Hiscox a substantial sum in rent (he estimated this to be £9,600), whilst the family put up 
with all the dust and noise from January to June 2022.
Finally, X said that Hiscoxs publicity claimed to provide an exceptional claims service.  His 
impression was that Hiscox sub-contracted the work and then forgot all about us and he 
considered this to be very poor PR. He said that the worst aspect of the claim was that he 
had to fight the contractors every step of the way to get the work completed. He also said 
that they wouldnt reply to phone calls or e-mails or communicate work schedules. Hed 
appreciated that the building work would be disruptive, but the fact it was drawn out over 
eight months instead of three months was shrugged off. It had caused his family a huge 
amount of unnecessary stress and angst. He felt that the offer of £150 was derisory. 
Turning now to what Hiscox has to say about the matter, it said it appreciated Xs patience 
throughout the process and apologised for any dissatisfaction these matters have caused. 
It accepted that Xs claim had been registered in August 2021. It said that once the source of 
the escape of water had been identified and repaired, contractors were appointed to 
complete the reinstatement. Hiscox said that there had been issues with the availability of 
contractors to complete the works due to unexpected staff turnover and due to Covid-19. It 
accepted that the works had taken longer than all parties would have liked... but 
considered that this was influenced by factors outside of Hiscoxs control.
Hiscox said that it had received regular interim reports from its agents showing progress of 
the claim. It acknowledged that following a pre-contract start meeting that the completion 
date for the works slipped on occasions. It explained that the scope of works changed 
significantly following the discovery that the leak was coming from under the bathroom floor, 
rather than in the snug. This necessitated further strip out and drying work. It said it hadnt 
received evidence that its agents had acted unprofessionally or treated X with contempt, and 
it wasnt party to these discussions.
In summary, it accepted that Xs expectations had not been successfully managed and that 
there had been significant delays. It paid £150 in compensation as a token of our regret. It said that it acknowledged that the timescale was extended, however it said that this was 
influenced by factors outside of Hiscox control.
I now provide the reasons for my decision to uphold Xs complaint. Ive recognised that 
arranging remedial work for a project of this size is not straightforward. I also note the 
difficulties which Hiscoxs contractors experienced over the Covid 19 pandemic and also due 
to staff shortages. I note that some of the delays were because additional works and drying 
became necessary. Nevertheless, for a project which was estimated to be completed within 
three months, to take eight months wasnt a fair or reasonable service to the customer. Im 
also satisfied that on the balance of probabilities, Hiscox and its agents didnt handle the 
claims process as well as it should have done, and that X had to chase the contractors for 
updates and information. I consider that these service failures will have caused X stress and 
inconvenience over an extended period. 
I appreciate that the delays in this case may have been influenced by some factors outside 
of Hiscoxs control, however this doesnt alter the fact that Hiscox had overall responsibility 
for the claims journey and for the action or inaction of its contractors appointed from time to 
time. This claims journey didnt progress in a fair and reasonable manner for X. The 
compensation guidance makes it clear that an award of £700 is within the range of 
compensation awarded where the impact of a businesss mistake has caused considerable 
distress, upset and worry and significant inconvenience and disruption that needs a lot of 
extra effort to sort out. In this case, the impact clearly lasted over many months.
Im therefore satisfied that a total of £700 compensation would be an appropriate award in 
this case to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused to X and his family, to include 
the £150 already paid. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Xs complaint and require Hiscox Underwriting Limited 
to pay compensation of £700 (less £150 if this amount has already been paid) for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by Hiscoxs service failures.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman