DRN-3691919
The complaint
Mr B complains about National Savings and Investments (NS&I) in relation to a payment 
made into his premium bonds account in error.
What happened
In 2017, NS&I paid £38,000 into Mr Bs premium bonds account. Due to an administrative 
error, the sum had been paid to Mr B instead of another of NS&Is customers. When that 
customer died, NS&I became aware of the mistake and contacted Mr B in 2021 to recover 
the money. 
Mr B said hed withdrawn the money from his account in 2017 to put towards buying a family 
home. He said he genuinely believed the money to be his, had acted in reliance on NS&Is 
mistake, and that he now owed it nothing. 
NS&I continued to pursue the money and blocked access to Mr Bs account which contained 
just over £20,000, saying it would offset what it felt he owed by that amount. Unless, that is, 
it received a partial payment or reached agreement with him to set up a monthly payment 
plan. In recognition of its initial error and by way of an apology, NS&I paid Mr B £200. 
Unhappy with his treatment by NS&I, Mr B complained to us. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint and recommended that it be upheld in part. They didnt think NS&I had acted 
unfairly by seeking to recover the amount but did consider that £200 didnt reflect the impact 
of its initial error on Mr B. So, he asked NS&I to pay him an additional £550.
Both parties disagreed with the investigators assessment. NS&I considered the 
recommended amount of compensation was too high when compared with other similar 
cases against NS&I wed seen. It felt Mr B ought to have been aware that the money wasnt 
paid to him as a premium bonds prize. 
In summary, Mr B said the events led him to believe hed won a prize. Consequently, he said 
he acted to his detriment in buying a more expensive home than hed otherwise have done 
in 2018 and with a bigger mortgage. He said the block placed on his account which 
prevented him from accessing money accrued through redundancy and as life savings left 
him with no financial buffer following his decision to become self-employed and obtain a 
business loan. Mr B added that hed incurred around £6,000 in legal fees in disputing NS&Is 
decision for which he should be reimbursed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, all of which Ive considered carefully, this 
decision addresses only those issues I consider to be materially relevant to the crux of 
Mr Bs complaint. 
Its not in dispute that NS&I paid the sum in question to Mr B in error. I cant see that he won 
the money as a prize  NS&I doesnt award prizes of £38,000  or that the money shouldnt 
have been paid to its other customer. As compensation for its error, NS&Is apologised to 
Mr B and paid him £200. But it believes the incorrect payment isnt his to keep and that he 
should at least enter into an agreement with it to pay it back. 
The above issues led to Mr B cashing in all the money, plus some of what was already in his 
account, a few months after it was transferred to him. I realise the disappointment this would 
have caused him when he discovered the truth, especially as he says he thought the money 
was his. That said, the money belonged to another customer and Mr B wasnt entitled to it. 
So, I dont think NS&Is treated him unfairly by asking him to repay the money. Nor do I think 
its treated him unfairly by blocking access to his other funds to recover the money, given 
Mr Bs response. As a result, Im not persuaded that NS&I must reimburse Mr B for his legal 
costs in disputing the matter. Especially as NS&I had already told Mr B about his right to 
complain to our service for free before it seems most, if not all, of those legal costs were 
incurred. 
While I think NS&I was entitled to recover the funds, I think it could have handled matters 
better than it did and provided Mr B with better customer service. For example, when NS&I 
first tried to contact Mr B in June 2021, it simply asked him to repay the amount in full. It 
again asked for the amount in full in its letter of August 2021 and twice more in October 
2021. It wasnt until later that NS&I explained it was willing to accept a partial payment, 
initially at least, or an agreement to set up a monthly payment plan. 
Bearing in mind it had been around four years since its error and since Mr B cashed in the 
bonds, I believe NS&Is approach was unsympathetic to say the least. I dont think it was 
reasonable for it to demand full payment as it did on several occasions. No doubt Mr B was 
surprised to hear of the mistake, and Im satisfied the communications from NS&I were 
extremely upsetting for him to have to deal with given the sum involved. 
I note that NS&I feels its offer of £200 is in line with our approach to compensation for non-
financial loss and with the outcomes weve reached in similar cases against NS&I in the 
past. I cant comment in any detail on the cases its referred to and Im not fully aware of 
their circumstances. Im required to decide Mr Bs complaint based on whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this case. Having done that, I believe a further £550 
(in addition to NS&Is previous payment) is a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience 
Mr Bs been caused by the error and NS&Is subsequent handling of it.    
I realise that Mr B would like NS&I to pay more but I consider that £750 is nevertheless a 
significant award and fairly reflects the distress, upset and worry hes been caused.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr B says regarding the consequences of NS&Is 
payment error. These include that he bought a more expensive house with a bigger 
mortgage, that he became self-employed and that he took out a business loan. All because 
of NS&Is mistake in 2017. I realise its possible that these events were caused by NS&Is 
actions but, on balance, I havent seen enough evidence to show that they were connected. 
A range of factors could have influenced these events  some of which occurred years after 
NS&Is error. I dont think it would be fair for me, based on the available evidence, to hold 
NS&I responsible for those events. 
Id also add that not all these events have been shown to have resulted in financial loss to 
Mr B. For example, although a more expensive house might have meant a bigger mortgage, 
it follows that the house might be worth more to Mr B as an asset than another house he 
might otherwise have bought. Taking everything into account, although I consider that NS&I needs to do more to put things 
right for Mr B, I cant reasonably ask it to cover the losses hes claimed for.
Putting things right
NS&I should pay Mr B £550, in addition to the £200 I believe its already paid him, as 
compensation for the impact of its errors and handling of the matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given, and while I recognise this will come as a disappointment to Mr B 
given his strength of feeling on the matter, Ive decided to uphold the complaint but only in 
part. I require National Savings and Investments to put things right for Mr B as explained 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman