DRN-3672535
The Complaint
Mr J says that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) 
(BPF) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with his claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974
(the CCA) in relation to his and his late wifes purchase of a holiday product on
26 October 2010 (the Time of Sale).
The claims, which are the subject of this complaint, are Mr Js because only he was named 
on the credit agreement that gave rise to them. But as the holiday product that the claims 
related to was in his name and that of his late wife (Mrs J), Ill refer to both of them at times 
throughout this decision.
Background to the Complaint
Mr and Mrs J purchased a timeshare at the Time of Sale from a timeshare provider (the 
Supplier). And they helped to finance that purchase by taking a loan from BPF in Mr Js 
name (the Credit Agreement).
Unhappy with the purchase, Mr J made claims for misrepresentation and an unfair 
relationship under Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA using a professional representative 
(PR) on 2 November 2020 (the Letter of Claim). As the reasons for the claims are familiar 
to both sides, I wont repeat them here. But it is helpful to note that, in addition to the CCA 
claims, PR also said that there hadnt been any sort of assessment of Mr Js 
creditworthiness. 
As BPF hadnt answered the claims by 29 December 2020, a complaint was referred to
the Financial Ombudsman Service.
It was then looked at by an investigator who, having considered the information available to
her, concluded that:
1. the claims under Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA had been made out of time under the 
Limitation Act 1980 (the LA); and
2. there wasnt enough evidence to suggest Mr Js loan was unaffordable for him.
PR disagreed. It argued that Mr J had more than six years to make his CCA claims under 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) six and three-year time limit. It also argued that 
time under the LA could and should be extended under Section 32 of that Act because the 
Supplier deliberately concealed the fact that Mr and Mrs J could relinquish their timeshare by 
simply giving 28 days notice to do so.
The investigator said that this was a complaint the Financial Ombudsman Service could
consider. So, she didnt comment any further on jurisdiction. And she wasnt persuaded that 
Section 32 of the LA gave Mr J more time because she thought it was likely that he would 
have been aware that he and Mrs J werent getting what they expected to get from the 
Supplier within the first few years of the relevant purchase.
However, as an informal resolution couldnt be reached, the complaint was referred for an
ombudsmans decision  which is why it was passed to me.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) on 29 July 2022. And, in summary, I thought that 
Mr Js Section 75 and 140A claims were made out of time under the LA.
Neither side added to what had already been said and/or provide in response to my PD. And 
as the deadline for responses has now been and gone, Ive considered the complaint for a 
Final Decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done all of that, I still dont think this complaint should be upheld for the same 
reasons I gave in my PD  which Ill set out below. I realise that this will be disappointing for 
Mr J. But I hope hell understand why that remains my view.
The Section 75 Claim for Misrepresentation
A claim for misrepresentation against the Supplier would ordinarily be made under Section 
2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And it was held in Green v Eadie & Ors 
[2011] EWHC B24 (Ch) [2012] Ch 363 that a claim under Section 2(1) of the MA is an action 
founded in tort for the purposes of the LA. So, the limitation period expires six years from the 
date on which the cause of action accrued (see Section 2 of the LA).
Mr J made a like claim against BPF under Section 75 of the CCA and the limitation period for 
that claim is the same as the underlying misrepresentation claim. So, this means that he had 
six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to make a claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point at which Mr J entered into the
purchase and Credit Agreements. I say this because he entered into the purchase
agreement based on the misrepresentations of the Supplier  which he relied on. And as the 
loan from BPF was used to help finance the purchase, it was when he entered into the 
Credit Agreement that he suffered a loss.
It follows, therefore, that the cause of action accrued when Mr J entered into the purchase
agreement or, if later, the Credit Agreement  which means he had six years from
October/November 2010 to make a claim. But as he didnt do that until November 2020, his
claim is likely to have been late. And for that reason, I still think BPF had and has a defence 
to it under the LA.
The Section 140A Claim
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationship between Mr J and BPF was
unfair for the purpose of Section 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it.
Schedule 3 of the Consumer Credit Act 2006 sets out the credit agreements to which
Section 140A applies. And in short, if a credit agreement started after 6 April 2007, it is
possible to make a claim under Section 140A in relation to that credit agreement.
But the provisions of the LA also apply to claims under Section 140A. And it was held in 
Patel v. Patel [2009] that the time for limitation purposes ran from the date the credit 
agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the time the claim was made. As the limitation period 
is six years, and as this claim was only made in November 2020, I still think BPF is entitled 
to rely on the LA as a defence to this claim too as an account statement from 11 February 2011 demonstrates that the loan from BPF was repaid in full that month. And as Mr J hasnt 
disputed, in response to my PD, that his loan ended more than six years before he claimed, 
I still see no reason to ask BPF to do anything further in relation to this claim either.
Grounds to Extend Time
As I said in my PD, I dont need to comment on the FCAs six and three-year rule as there 
wasnt and still isnt any suggestion that the Financial Ombudsman Service might not have 
jurisdiction to deal with the merits of part or all of this complaint on the basis that it wasnt 
made in time under that particular time limit  which is distinct from and different to the 
relevant provisions of the LA.
However, as I also said in my PD, PR argues that the limitation period should be extended 
under Section 32 of the LA because Mr J wasnt aware that he could relinquish the 
timeshare by giving 28 days notice to do so as that was concealed from him.
Section 32(1)(b) applies when any fact relevant to the plaintiffs right of action has been
deliberately concealed from him by the defendant [my emphasis]. But neither PR nor Mr J 
have provided me with anything persuasive in response to my PD to suggest that the 
Supplier deliberately concealed anything about a 28-day notice period. And as I still cant 
see why, given the allegations fuelling each claim, this particular issue prevented Mr J from 
making the claims earlier, I remain of the view that this particular argument by PR doesnt 
help Mr Js cause.
So, Im still not persuaded that theres a reason why time might be extended in keeping with 
the provisions of the LA.
The Decision to Lend
The Letter of Claim suggests that BPF might have lent irresponsibly to Mr J. Ive already 
explained why I think a claim under Section 140A is likely to fall outside of the time limit set 
by the LA. But as I said in my PD, lending money under a regulated credit agreement of the 
kind in question was an activity covered by the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction 
at the Time of Sale. So, Ive reconsidered the issue in that context.
However, its still the case that very little has been said about the reasons why the Letter of 
Claim questioned BPFs decision to lend to Mr J. And as Ive said before, even if I were to 
find that BPF failed to do everything it should have when it agreed to lend (and I make no 
such finding), Id have to be satisfied that the lending was unaffordable for Mr J before also 
concluding that he lost out as a result. As I still havent seen anything to persuade me that 
was the case, I dont think this is a reason to uphold this complaint given its circumstances.
Conclusion
Ultimately, its for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr J may have against 
the Supplier or BPF has expired under the LA. But, as far as I can see from the information 
available, thats likely to have been the case. And given what Ive said about BPFs decision 
to lend, I dont think theres anything it has to do to put things right on this occasion.
My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman