DRN-2362058
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service he received during a phone call with National Savings and 
Investments (NS&I) about his premium bonds.
What happened
Mr H called NS&I to ask if the prize warrants for that months winning premium bonds had 
been issued. An NS&I representative said that some had been issued, but not all of them 
and the remainder would be issued throughout the month. 
Mr H asked a number of subsequent questions about how and when prize warrants are 
issued and referenced an error which had previously been made regarding the warrant 
printing. He asked whether the same problem had reoccurred. NS&I acknowledged that 
there had previously been a problem with printing but told Mr H that they werent aware of 
the same issue happening again. Mr H pressed the representative for assurance that it 
wouldnt happen again, but the representative said that while they cannot guarantee future 
mistakes would not happen there had been no reported issues. 
Mr H wasnt happy with what the representative had told him. He said that NS&I shouldnt 
need to rely on its customers making it aware of printing issues, rather, it should check the 
prize warrants before they are issued. Mr H repeatedly asked for a specific answer about 
whether NS&I checked the warrants before they were sent. The representative said that they 
cannot give a definite answer, but the warrants wouldve been checked and that measures 
wouldve been put in place to make sure the mistake doesnt happen again. Mr H asked to 
know specifically what had been done.
The call was put though to a supervisor who logged a complaint for Mr H. In addition to 
saying he was unhappy with everyway the call hand been handled, Mr H raised 
dissatisfaction with the length of time it took to log the complaint as well as some the way the 
complaint process was explained to him. Mr H ended the call. 
NS&I issued its final response to Mr Hs complaint. It thought that the call had been handled 
reasonably. It said its representative had been polite and courteous and given accurate 
answers to Mr Hs questions.
Mr H referred his complaint to our service. Overall our investigator thought that NS&I had 
handled the call with Mr H reasonably under what they considered to be challenging 
questions from Mr H. They were satisfied that NS&I had answered Mr Hs questions 
satisfactorily and provided a reasonable level of customer service.
Although Mr H didnt tell us why he disagreed, he asked for an ombudsmans decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Im aware that Mr H believes that there were a number of service failings on NS&Is part 
during the call he complains about. Ive listened to the call and given careful consideration to 
all of the points of Mr Hs dissatisfaction. I dont however, find it necessary to address each 
point Mr H has raised to explain what I consider to be a fair outcome.
Its understandable that Mr H wouldve had concerns following receipt of a prize warrant 
which contained errors, so I think its natural that hed seek some reassurance that NS&I had 
taken steps to rectify its error. Im satisfied NS&I went into sufficient detail to give Mr H that 
reassurance by telling him steps had been taken. Its clear that Mr H wanted more details 
about the specific steps NS&I had taken, but I dont think it was reasonable to expect NS&I 
to do that, nor was it required to.
Like our investigator, I found that many of the questions Mr H asked wouldve required NS&I 
answer in a level of detail I wouldnt have reasonably expected it to. Especially as the 
questions were in relation to its internal processes and procedures. I agree that the 
representatives Mr H spoke to were polite, courteous and gave reasonable answers to the 
questions he raised. So, overall, I find that NS&I provided a reasonable level of customer 
service during its call with Mr H, and I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman