DRN-3654812
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Ms J holds with Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax. 
Ms J has complained that, after agreeing to a term extension on her interest-only mortgage 
to March 2022, she received a letter from Halifax in June 2021 telling her that the mortgage 
term would be ending two months later. Ms J was very upset by this and believes the bank 
was saying she had lied.
Ms J has a representative bringing the complaint on her behalf, but for clarity, I will refer to 
Ms J throughout. 
I will also clarify that, although the complaint was originally set up against Lloyds Bank PLC, 
this was incorrect and so we have amended our records to show the correct business, which 
I will refer to as Halifax throughout. Bank of Scotland Plc is a subsidiary of Lloyds Bank PLC 
but a separate business in its own right.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 13 July 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Ms J being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
I will also explain first that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent of both 
consumers and the businesses they are complaining about. This means that we dont act for 
consumers, nor do we take instructions either from consumers or businesses, or allow either 
party to direct the course of our investigations; were we to do so, it would compromise our 
independence and impartiality. So although Ive noted the issues which Ms J would like to be 
addressed, its up to me to decide what the main complaint issues are and what evidence I 
need to see in order to determine it. 
Briefly, in 2018 Ms J took out an interest-only mortgage with Halifax, borrowing just under 
£128,000 over a period of three years. The mortgage term was due to end on 31 August 
2021. The Financial Conduct Authority had directed mortgage lenders to extend expired 
interest-only mortgages to 31 October 2021 due to the pandemic.
The investigator has detailed all the calls Ms J had with Halifax, but the crux of the complaint 
is about a conversation Ms J had with Halifax on 31 August 2021. Ms J says she was told 
that the mortgage term would be extended to March 2022. She was therefore very 
distressed to receive correspondence after that saying her mortgage term would be ending 
on 31 October 2021.
Although Halifax initially disputed that its adviser granted an extension to March 2022, the 
bank has now acknowledged that Ms J was led to believe her mortgage term would be 
extended. Halifax offered compensation of £200 for any distress and inconvenience caused 
to Ms J.
Our investigator thought the compensation offered was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. He agreed with Ms J that Halifaxs customer service had been poor and that 
the bank had initially disputed that it had granted her an informal extension on her mortgage. 
But he didnt agree that the bank had accused her of lying. As a result, he didnt think Halifax 
needed to do anything more.
Ms J disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She has reiterated that Halifax accused her of lying and also thought the 
investigation had been compromised by the bank. Ms J sent in copies of correspondence 
that were already on file and had been considered by the investigator.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said above, it is up to me to determine what the issue is in this complaint. Ms J is 
unhappy that, after shed been told her mortgage could be extended to March 2022, Halifax 
denied shed been told this. Ms J is unhappy that Halifax has, in her opinion, accused her of 
being a liar. As a result, Ms J is dissatisfied with the offer of £200 compensation and thinks 
the bank has withheld information. However, I am satisfied that the bank has provided all its 
evidence in the case.
Because Halifax has accepted its mistake in relation to Ms J believing shed been granted a 
term extension, I dont need to analyse every detail of what happened in order to decide if 
the bank is at fault; Halifax has already acknowledged this and apologised to Ms J. All I need 
to decide is what redress is fair and reasonable.
Whilst I fully understand how distressing it was for Ms J to be told that a particular 
conversation hadnt taken place, the bank later acknowledged its mistake and apologised. 
Halifax also apologised if anything it had done had caused Ms J to feel that shed been 
accused of lying. I think the apology and the compensation offered of £200 are fair and 
reasonable for the distress and upset caused to Ms J, and Im not ordering the bank to do 
anything further.
It is now almost a year since the mortgage term ended and although things had been put on 
hold while we considered the complaint, this decision ends our involvement in the matter. I 
would therefore urge Ms J to contact Halifaxs End of Term team with her proposals for 
repayment of the mortgage. Halifax is required to give fair consideration to any proposals, 
subject to satisfactory evidence of the repayment strategy being provided by Ms J.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, insofar as Im satisfied the 
compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience offered by Bank of Scotland Plc 
trading as Halifax is fair and reasonable. I simply leave it to Ms J to decide if she wants to 
accept it in full and final settlement of this complaint.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman