DRN-1485799
 
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy that Zurich Assurance Ltd cancelled her life and critical illness cover 
(CIC) policy without telling her.  
 
What happened
In 2016, Miss C took out the policy with Zurich with a £32,269 sum assured for a £44.42 
monthly premium. 
In June and July 2019 Zurich was unable to successfully collect the monthly premiums. 
Despite writing to her in July and speaking to her on the phone the balance remained 
outstanding. 
In September 2019, Zurich cancelled the policy for lack of payment of premiums. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but doesnt think it should to be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
 
Section 5 of the terms and conditions made reasonably clear that if the customer 
doesnt make payment when its due, the policy will only continue for another 30 days 
 from the date of payment  before its terminated. 
The evidence shows: 
oZurich was unable to successfully collect the June 2019 premium but the 
policy continued until July 2019.
oIn July 2019, Zurich tried to collect the June and July payment but was again 
unsuccessful. 
oIn July 2019 Zurich notified Miss C about the non-payments. 
oFollowing a subsequent telephone call with Zurich Miss C said that shed 
arrange cover elsewhere. 
As no payments had been made since June 2019  despite notifying her  in 
September 2019 Zurich wrote to Miss C to notify her that the cover had been 
cancelled. 
Although Miss C is unhappy, Zurich cancelled the policy in line with its terms and 
conditions.  
Miss C disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision.  She 
says she was told by Zurich that it cancelled her policy because of a medical condition. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Miss C says, Im unable to say 
that Zurich has done anything wrong by cancelling the policy for lack of payment of 
premiums. 
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Miss Cs strength of feeling about this matter. 
She has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope she wont take the fact my findings focus on what 
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by Miss C and Zurich, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened. 
Im satisfied that Zurich made clear in its terms and conditions and general policy 
documentation including the Key Features Document what would happen if the premiums 
werent paid.
Im satisfied that Zurich cancelled the policy because it was unable to successfully collect the 
premium on two consecutive months, despite notifying Miss C of the missed premiums. 
In line with Zurichs terms and conditions it kept the policy going for 30 days, after it was 
unable to collect the first missed payment in June 2019. 
Zurich thereafter wrote to Miss C when it was also unable to collect the second payment in 
July 2019, notifying her of this and what she needed to do with regards to payment. I note 
Zurich says the direct debit was retuned with the message Refer to Debtor which generally 
means that there were insufficient funds in the account. 
So if Miss C didnt have enough money in her account at the time, Zurich gave her sufficient 
time and notice to bring her account back in order.  In other words, Im broadly satisfied that 
Zurich took reasonable steps to notify Miss C of the situation, giving her an opportunity to 
pay the missed premiums and continue with the policy. 
I appreciate that Miss C disputed the non-payments and says that she was notified by her 
bank that payments had been made. But on balance Im not persuaded that this was the 
case. And despite being given an opportunity to provide bank statements she hasnt done 
so. 
Therefore, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that Zurich only 
cancelled the policy upon non-payment of premiums after it had given Miss C two 
opportunities to pay the outstanding balance.  I also note that in response to a telephone call with Zurich Miss C said that shed find cover 
elsewhere  suggesting that she was no longer interested in continuing cover with Zurich. 
But this notwithstanding Zurich was entitled to cancel the policy for lack of payment of 
premiums.  
It was only after this, in September 2019 it wrote to Miss C to finally notify and confirm to her 
the cancellation of the policy. Although it had discretion to reinstate the plan within 90 days it 
said that too much time had passed which I dont think is an unreasonable assessment. 
Im mindful of Miss Cs comments but Ive seen nothing to suggest that the plan was 
cancelled on medical grounds as she had critical illness cover. And in the circumstances I 
dont think Miss C is entitled to a refund of premiums because shes paid for cover which 
shes had the benefit of, and in the event of death or diagnosis of a specified critical illness 
the policy wouldve paid out. 
In the circumstances Im not persuaded that Zurich has behaved unreasonably or in a way 
that was contrary to its own terms and conditions regarding its action.
I appreciate Miss C will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate her 
frustration, Im not going to ask Zurich to do anything.  
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Miss C 
what she wants.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 March 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman