DRN-3208914
Complaint
Mr S has complained about the overdraft charges National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) applied to his current account. Hes said the charges were unfair and kept him in 
a loop of charges.
Background
Mr S complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that NatWest had 
done anything wrong and or treated Mr S unfairly so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S 
disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mr S complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts NatWest charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate 
in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. So while Mr S appears to be unhappy with the amount of 
the charges themselves in comparison to the amount borrowed, this on its own isnt a reason 
for me to uphold Mr S complaint, or something for me to get involved with.
That said, NatWest wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr S if it applied these 
interest, fees and charges to Mr S account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought 
fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr S was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive 
considered whether there were periods where NatWest continued charging Mr S even 
though it ought to have known he was in financial difficulty or it ought to have realised this 
was the case. 
Ive looked through Mr S account statements for the period concerned. But I cant see that 
NatWest ought to have been aware that Mr S might have been struggling during the period 
weve looked at. Mr S did use his overdraft regularly and he may say that this in itself was an 
indication of financial difficulty. 
But Mr S account was regularly seeing a credit balance. And while Im not seeking to make 
retrospective value judgements over Mr S expenditure, nonetheless there are significant 
amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions account going 
from the account. So I dont think its fair to say that it is the interest, fees and charges, which 
unfairly prevented Mr S from exiting his overdraft, in the way he appears to be suggesting, 
when it appears to be case that he had the disposable income to repay his overdraft within a 
reasonable period of time. Mr S spending was just as, if not, more likely responsible for his 
overdrawn balance rather than the charges. 
Equally, a number of the unarranged overdraft, paid item and returned item fees came about 
as a result of Mr S making card payments when he didnt have sufficient funds in his 
account. As our adjudicator said, this was a result of when the payments were being 
requested by merchants. And as this happened on a few occasions its difficult to say that   
Mr S wouldnt have been aware this might have been a possibility by the time of the later 
instances.  
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mr S wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves 
which ought to have alerted NatWest to the fact Mr S was experiencing financial difficulty 
and which meant that it would have been fair and reasonable to step in here. I say this while 
especially mindful that corrective action in relation to Mr S overdraft facility is likely to have 
resulted in adverse information being recorded on his credit file. 
So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Mr S, I dont think 
that it was unreasonable for NatWest to have proceeded adding the charges that it did. It 
was reasonably entitled to believe that Mr S had the funds to be able to repay his overdraft 
within a reasonable period of time. And bearing in mind the consequences of doing so 
NatWest taking corrective action in these circumstances, would have been disproportionate. 
So I dont think NatWest charged Mr S in circumstances where it ought to have realised that 
it was unfair to do so.
As this is the case, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr S complaint. I appreciate that this 
will be very disappointing for   Mr S  especially as he has quite rightly pointed out that it has 
taken sometime for his complaint to reach this stage. But I hope hell understand the reasons 
for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman