DRN-2797329
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Red Circle Financial Planning Limited gave him unsuitable advice 
to transfer his defined benefits from his occupational pension scheme (OPS)  the British 
Steel Pension scheme (BSPS)  to a personal pension plan (PPP). Mr C says that the 
transfer wasnt in his best interests.
In particular, Mr C has expressed concern about the cash flow modelling which was 
undertaken and that other options for repaying his mortgage with the tax free cash werent 
fully explored. Mr C has also queried as to why a new PPP was established for the transfer, 
when he already held a group PPP. 
  
What happened
The relationship between Mr C and Red Circle began in December 2017, following Mr Cs 
dissatisfaction with a previous adviser who had begun the process of transferring his defined 
benefits.
Previously, in May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that 
the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That 
announcement said that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size 
could be satisfied, a new pension scheme sponsored by Mr Cs employer would be set up 
 the BSPS 2.
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit 
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was 
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a letter in October 
2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor scheme, 
BSPS 2, the PPF, or into a private arrangement, such as a PPP.
A deadline was set for members to notify the scheme administrators as to their choice by 11
December 2017. This was subsequently extended to 22 December 2017.
Mr Cs circumstances were recorded in a fact find document as follows:
He was 47 years old, married and had three children, one of whom was 
financially dependent
He owned his home, which was encumbered by an £85,400 mortgage, and he 
had two loans outstanding. His outstanding mortgage was covered by a life 
insurance policy.
He had cash savings of around £3,500
His attitude to risk was recorded as being medium
He had little investment experience, this being limited to cash based savings and 
switches between pension funds. He was also recorded as having little capacity 
for financial loss.
Mr C had been a member of the BSPS since October 1995, and so had 
accrued approximately 21 years service.
Mr C had joined the employers defined contribution scheme which had replaced 
the defined benefit BSPS.
Mr C also had a separate PPP which had been established to contract out of 
the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS). This was valued at 
around
£6,800.
In terms of Mr Cs deferred benefit entitlement, he had a normal retirement age of 65, at 
which point Red Circle estimated that he could expect an annual income from the scheme 
of £19,951, or tax free cash of £92,474 with a reduced annual income of £13,871.
If Mr C retired at age 60, as hed said he was keen to do, Red Circle estimated that he 
would receive £15,412 pa, or tax free cash of £74,364 with a reduced annual income of 
£11,154.
Mr C received a transfer value from the BSPS for his deferred benefits of £347,096 
in September 2017 and this was valid for three months, although this was 
subsequently extended.
Within the suitability report provided to Mr C by Red Circle, his objectives were recorded 
as follows:
To reduce his working hours from age 55 and use the tax free cash from his 
pension benefits to repay his mortgage.
He wanted to fully retire by age 60.
Mr C wanted to reshape his pension benefits, taking a higher level of income 
initially and then reduce these when the state pension began.
He wanted the death benefits from his pension to be passed to his family.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) indicated the amount of growth required by the 
transferred funds to match those being relinquished in the scheme. It concluded that the 
PPP would need to grow by 5.87% pa to match the BSPS benefits at a retirement age of 
65, or 4.64% pa if tax free cash was taken.
At a retirement age of 60, the PPP would need to grow by 7.12% pa to match the 
BSPS benefits, or 5.54% if tax free cash was taken.
A projection was also made of the required yield to match the PPF benefits. This 
showed that, for age 65, the PPP would need to grow by 4.96% pa to match the PPF 
benefits, or 4.56% if tax free cash was taken.
At age 60, the PPP would need to grow by 6.17% to match the PPF benefits, or 5.72% if 
tax free cash was taken.
The fee to complete the transfer value analysis was £2,000, which would be paid by Mr 
Cs employer, and a further ongoing advice fee of 0.5% of the fund value would also be 
charged. The PPP annual management charge would be 0.4% pa of the fund value.
Red Circle recommended that Mr C transfer to the PPP and he accepted the advice.
£347,096 was transferred to the PPP on 19 February 2018.
Mr C has since complained to Red Circle on the basis set out above.
Red Circles response to the complaintRed Circle didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint, saying that Mr C had, before meeting 
with it conducted his own detailed analysis of the option to transfer and had 
concluded that transferring was the best option.
However, Red circle said, it nevertheless reviewed the transfer option from the starting 
perspective that it would not be in Mr Cs best interests and that it would simply write a 
report to facilitate the transfer. This included an overview of Mr Cs circumstances and 
objectives, one of which was to reduce his working hours from age 55. This would reduce 
his income and he wanted to be able maintain his lifestyle and repay his mortgage.
Sophisticated software was used to model cashflow and, although the options of 
transferring to the BSPS 2 or the PPF were considered, it was determined that accessing 
the defined benefits at age 55 would leave Mr C with a reduced income at age 55 due to 
the early retirement penalties, and that he would run out of money by his early to mid-70s 
as this income and the state pension would be insufficient to support his desired lifestyle.
By contrast, Red Circle said, the transfer options would allow Mr C to release funds at 55 
to repay his mortgage, take a higher income from 60 to the state pension age of 67, and 
then reduce the income thereafter. This option had a high likelihood of sustaining Mr Cs 
lifestyle throughout his retirement.
The scenario of the investments in the PPP not performing well was also considered, 
which meant that in the very worst case scenario Mr C could run out of funds at roughly 
the same time as with the PPF, albeit the guaranteed income from the PPF would 
continue, whereas with the PPP Mr C would only have the state pension to rely upon. But 
in this case, Mr C could work a little longer, or spend a little less in retirement, which could 
feasibly amount to a reduction of £5,000 pa in spending.
This plan still, at the time of responding to the complaint, demonstrated a 96.8% likelihood 
of success in meeting Mr Cs requirements, Red Circle said.
Against the critical yields required to match the OPS benefits at age 60 and 65, Red 
Circle noted that the PPP had produce annualised returns in the two years since 
transferring of 5.4%. This had also been achieved in difficult investment markets, it said.
In summary, Red Circle remained of the view that the advice to transfer had been 
suitable. Retaining his defined benefits in the PPF would not have achieved Mr Cs 
objectives, it said.
Our investigation
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr C referred his complaint to this service. One of 
investigators considered the matter, and recommended that the complaint be upheld. 
She said the following in summary:
Mr C had accrued benefits in the BSPSP which would translate into a guaranteed 
income for life. They would form a significant part of his pension provision and, as 
Mr C had a very limited capacity for loss, the security of these benefits would have 
been important to him.
The regulators requirement when considering a transfer of defined benefits was 
that it should be presumed to be unsuitable unless it could be clearly 
demonstrated that it was in an individuals best interests.
Red Circle had said that it had done this in the suitability report. But in determining 
whether this was the case, she first considered the required critical yield to match 
the scheme benefits. She noted that the advice had been given after the regulator had published its updated redress methodology in October 2017, with which 
businesses could calculate future discount rates for complaints about transfers 
which were being upheld.
The investigator said that, whilst businesses werent required to use these 
when giving advice, they nevertheless provided a useful guide as to the kinds 
of returns deemed feasible at the time of the advice.
The investigator noted that the discount rate was 4% pa for a period of 12 years 
to retirement at age 60, compared to a required critical yield to match the BSPS 
benefits of 7.12%, or 6.175 to match those in the PPF.
She said that this meant the pension funds would need to achieve a rate of 
growth higher than that which was deemed achievable. And the actual rate of 
growth cited by Red Circle as having been achieved over the last two years was 
also lower than this.
She therefore considered it unlikely that the PPP would be able to return 
sufficient growth to match the relinquished benefits. And to try to do so would 
have meant exposing Mr Cs pension funds to a higher level of risk that he was 
willing or in a position to take.
But the investigator nevertheless considered whether there were other 
compelling reasons as to why Mr C should transfer.
Having done so, she didnt think that sufficient consideration had been given to 
alternatives for repaying the mortgage, such as using other pension provision or 
just reducing the mortgage by making overpayments.
The investigator appreciated the point in the suitability report about the flexibility 
produced by the PPP in terms of taking income. But she wasnt persuaded that 
this justified relinquishing the guaranteed benefits within the OPS.
Nor was she persuaded by a rationale for transferring relating to the death 
benefits which would be payable under the PPP. The scheme would have paid 
Mr Cs wife a 50% pension on his death, and also a pension for his dependent 
child up to the age of 23.
There was no evidence that alternative death benefits were required, and 
although the PPP would leave a lump sum, this would in any case be dependent 
upon how much was left in the pension when Mr C passed away.
Mr C had also said that he was unaware of the dependants pension from the 
OPS, and this would have been important to him  although the investigator 
made no particular finding on this.
Having concluded that the transfer advice was unsuitable, the investigator recommended 
that Red Circle undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators 
guidance, on the basis that Mr C would have transferred into the PPF  the option he had 
already chosen in the time to choose exercise before he instead transferred his deferred 
benefits to the PPP.
Mr C agreed with the investigators outcome, and submitted the cashflow modelling which 
demonstrated that there was headroom of £5,000 which could have been deducted from 
the income requirement.
Red Circle disagreed, however, saying the following in summary:
Reference was made in the findings to the benefits remaining in the BSPS, with 
associated critical yields to match those benefits, but the scheme was due to be 
closed shortly, with no guarantee that the successor scheme, the BSPS 2 would 
be put in place.As in any case noted by the investigator, Mr C had expressed a preference to 
move into the PPF, and so this was the relevant scheme for comparison 
purposes.
The critical yields needed to be reduced as Mr C was no longer paying the 
ongoing advice fee, Red Circle said. This meant that, to match the PPF benefits 
at age 65, the critical yield would be 4.46% pa, or 4.06% pa if tax free cash was 
taken. For retirement at age 60, these would be 5.17% and 4.72% respectively.
The regulators guidance for the redress methodology  FG 17/9  said that any 
discount rate should be taken to the point where the member could retire without 
any reduction in benefits or consent of their employer. This would have been age 
65 for Mr C, but it was unsure as to what effect this would have on the stated 
discount rate of 4%.
Red Circle assumed that the 4% discount rate should be compared against the 
critical yields of 4.46% and 4.06% at age 65, but the latter figures included the 
underlying costs of the PPP and it was unclear as to whether these were 
factored into the discount rate.
These could in fact be lower, as the PPP provider was a mutual company and the 
profit share acted as a rebate on the charges. These rebates were 0.18% in 2018 
and 2019, and 0.15% in 2020. Although these couldnt be guaranteed, they served 
to reduce the critical yield further.
The actual growth in the PPP had exceeded the required critical yield.
Mr C was in fact prepared to take the level of investment risk required to meet the 
critical yield. Red Circle said that he had originally provided an answer of eight out 
of ten, where one was the lowest risk and ten was the highest. This had been 
reduced to five after it had been calculated that he didnt need to take this level of 
risk to achieve his objectives  and this would reduce investment risk and volatility.
In further support of this, Red Circle drew attention to an exchange of messages 
with Mr C in which he said that he had invested all of his pension funds in the 
defined contribution scheme in an equity fund which was rated as seven on the 
same risk scale.
This was indicative, Red Circle said, of Mr C being willing to take a higher level 
of investment risk and that he knew what he was doing.
The cashflow modelling took account of the possibility of Mr C using funds built up 
in the defined contribution scheme to repay his mortgage, but if he did so he was 
projected to have run out of money by his mid-70s. The PPF and state pension 
wouldnt have provided sufficient income to meet Mr Cs desired lifestyle.
Although the investigator had suggested that overpayments could be made to 
reduce the mortgage, Red Circle said that Mr C did have surplus income, but only 
had savings of £3,500 at the point of advice  and this was earmarked for a family 
holiday.
Red Circle considered that this evidenced two things  that the desired income and 
additional £5,000 to enjoy his retirement couldnt be met from the PPF, and that 
there was no means of making mortgage overpayments.
Although death benefits werent a principal reason for transferring, Red Circle 
noted that half of Mr Cs pension entitlement wouldnt have been sufficient for his 
wifes
requirements. This was confirmed in an email of 3 January 2018. He also had 
only one financial dependant.
Red Circle said that Mr C had founded a social media group for steel workers and 
was very familiar with the BSPS, BSPS 2 and PPF benefits options  to the extent 
that he provided answers on this to others in the group. It was therefore 
inconceivable that he wouldnt have been aware of the dependants benefits from 
the PPF.The investigator put this response to Mr C for his comments. He responded to say that, 
in terms of his risk attitude, a previous risk profile had demonstrated him to have a 
low/medium rating, and when asked why the one in question had returned a higher 
score, he suggested it may have been because hed said that he had experience of 
investing. But his was restricted to browsing funds and switching within his group PPP, 
within which he thought he could take some risk as it was a smaller pot.
A fund switch hed made for his defined contributions scheme was on the basis of a 
recommendation from a colleague, whod in turn received the recommendation from 
their financial adviser.
The most convincing rationale for transferring, Mr C said, was that he was told he would 
run out of money by age 76 with the PPF, but if he transferred he would still have an 
additional
£200,000 left in his pension pot. But he was uncertain as to whether his money would 
still have run out by age 76 with the PPF if hed not spent the additional £5,000 pa. There 
was also a saving of £200 pm, but this wasnt accounted for in the cashflow analysis. 
This could have been used to make mortgage overpayments.
Regarding the death benefits, Mr C said that throughout the advisory process, these were 
quoted as being 50%, but taking into account the dependants benefit, this should have 
been more like 75% for at least nine years, and possibly up to 16 years, thereafter 
reducing to 50%.
A telephone discussion between the investigator and a representative of Red Circle then 
occurred. The investigator explained that the discount rate for a term to age 65 was 4.4% 
pa. And whilst she acknowledged the points about the effect of the ongoing advice 
charges being removed and that the product fees might vary, she didnt think these should 
be taken into account in the comparison with critical yield.
She also said that the actual performance to date was noteworthy, but largely irrelevant 
as it was the information from the time of the advice which needed to be afforded greater 
consideration.
The business representative said that they understood why the discount rate was used 
as an indicator of what was deemed achievable in terms of annual growth, but they 
nevertheless thought that these were determined on very conservative assumptions and 
so were arguably unfair. The investigator explained that this service has no influence 
over the manner in which these rates are calculated.
The representative further argued that it wasnt fair for us to rely on discount rates 
where there was no such obligation for advisers to do so when considering critical yields 
and any subsequent advice to transfer. The investigator acknowledged this, but said 
that it was a useful indicator as to what was deemed achievable in terms of growth 
rates.
The investigator informed both parties that, as agreement hadnt been reached on the 
matter, it would be referred to an ombudsman. She copied Mr Cs most recent comments 
to Red Circle an invited any further comments from either party in advance of it being 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
Red Circle added this to its existing comments as follows:It accepted that the critical yields were still above the discount rate for retirement 
at age 65, but it remained of the view that there was no requirement to use that 
discount rate  and there still isnt.
It considered actual rates of return, for example the ABI Mixed Investment sectors, 
rather than those deemed possible, when giving advice. When looked at 
(historically) over a 17 year period, to mirror that of the discount rate, these had 
returned 5% pa for the Pension Mixed 20-60 sector and 6.6% for the Mixed 40-
85 sector. These were significantly above the required critical yield, as has been 
the actual fund growth in the PPP, which gave Red Circle confidence that this 
could be met, or bettered.
It gave a personal recommendation, as required by the rules, on the basis that Mr 
C had an objective which couldnt be met without transferring to a PPP.
The transfer offered flexibility in taking income which couldnt be met by the PPF 
and Red Circle had demonstrated that it had well understood his objectives.
Although it conceded that Mr Cs surplus income had been omitted from the 
original cashflow analysis, it had updated this and it demonstrated that, if he 
relied on the PPF, he would have run out of money at age 72. The transfer 
would, by contrast, provide him with sufficient income throughout his retirement.
Mr C was clearly happy to transfer what would have been a substantial part of his 
pension provision to a fund (rated seven on a scale of one to ten) on the 
recommendation of a colleague without knowing whether it was suitable for him. 
This suggested that Mr C knew more about investments than he had conveyed, or 
that he was willing to take more risk than had been claimed.
It couldnt comment on any prior risk assessment conducted by a different 
adviser, but Red Circle went beyond the basic information required in settling on 
an agreed risk rating for Mr C.
In terms of cashflow, Mr C would be unable to release tax free cash from his 
defined contribution scheme and continue contributing to it. And if hed started 
working part time, he wouldnt have been able to fund the mortgage repayments.
The monthly savings of £200 were invariably spent on needs as they arose, 
e.g. birthdays, car expenses. So this wasnt a reliable savings amount and 
wasnt available for overpayments to the mortgage.
The additional £5,000 pa was reflective of the lifestyle Mr C was already living, 
and which he wanted to maintain into retirement.
Death benefits werent the main aim of the transfer. But in any case, Mr Cs family 
would be protected in the event of his death, and the pension funds would be able 
to be taken as a lump sum or as income.
Mr Cs interest in cashflow analyses undertaken by several parties before the 
transfer advice was given demonstrated that he was well informed and inquisitive 
about the process and the schemes involved.
Mr C understood what he was doing, and whilst Red Circle conceded that this 
didnt absolve it of the responsibility to give suitable advice, it nevertheless 
maintained that it did so, taking into account Mr Cs circumstances, needs and 
objectives.
The matter was then referred to me for review. I issued by provisional findings, which are 
copied below. In summary, I concluded that the advice hadnt been suitable and that the 
complaint should therefore be upheld, for the reasons set out:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and DISP, I need to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
This isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied, but provides useful 
context for my assessment of the business' actions here.
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time Red Circle advised Mr C 
were set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that 
regulated businesses, like Red Circle, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is 
suitable for their clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a 
level of risk beyond their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements of COBS 9.2.2R, 
Red Circle needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice 
met Mr Cs objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the 
requirement for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process.
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1.
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with 
the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme 
or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to 
transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with 
safeguarded benefits;
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to 
make an informed decision;
give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the 
factors that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case 
no later than when the key features document is provided; and
take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a  retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-
out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the 
transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation 
to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits 
being given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;
an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
a summary of any other material information.
Ive therefore considered the suitability of Red Circles advice to Mr C in the context of 
the above requirements.
Red Circles rationale for transferring
Red Circle has said that Mr C was keen on reducing his working hours at age 55, 
repaying his mortgage and taking his income flexibly thereafter. Mr C had already 
indicated his preference to enter the PPF as part of the time to choose exercise, and 
he was seeking advice on his options for meeting his objectives. Mr C wasnt 
categorised as an insistent client, and so Red Circle could be confident that he would be 
acting upon its advice.
In accordance with COBS 9.2.2R, Red Circle undertook its fact finding for Mr C and then 
set out its assessment of his circumstances and objectives.
In its suitability report dated 11 January 2018, Red Circle summarised Mr Cs objectives 
as follows:
Reduce his working hours from age 55 and retire fully at age 60
Repay his mortgage with the tax free cash
Reshape his benefits to enable him to take a higher income prior to receiving 
the state pension and his wifes pensions coming into payment.
Remaining death benefits to be passed to his family.
As with the investigator, Ive noted that Red Circle pointed out to Mr C that the starting 
assumption for an assessment of Mr Cs options was that a transfer would be 
unsuitable, unless it could be demonstrated that it was in his best interests in order to 
meet specific objectives. And so Ill therefore explore these objectives further below.
Death benefits
Red Circle has said that any benefit here wasnt a driver behind the recommendation, 
which I accept. But there were nevertheless important considerations here in terms of 
what was being relinquished by transferring, rather than perhaps being gained from it.Its fair to say that a lump sum would have become payable to Mr Cs beneficiaries from the 
PPP in the event of his death, but as pointed out by the investigator, the value of this 
benefit would depend on the size of the fund left at that point.
The PPF, on the other hand, would have guaranteed a pension income to Mrs C for life 
of 50% of Mr Cs pension at the date of death. And it would have paid a further 
dependants pension to his young daughter until she left qualifying education.
As referred to by Red Circle, Mr C expressed concern about the lack of death in service 
benefits if he were to lose his job, which would mean that his wife would struggle. But he 
didnt say that his wife would struggle on the basis of her own pension arrangements and 
the addition of 50% of his pension if he died in retirement. And given the likely overall 
reduced cost to the household, it seems likely to me that the continuation of 50% of Mr Cs 
pension income for life would have at least offset the missing 50% received whilst he was 
alive.
I have concerns, therefore, that these benefits were afforded insufficient prominence in 
the assessment of whether Mr C should transfer his benefits. My current view on this is 
that, given Mr Cs family circumstances, the PPF would offer better death benefits.
Part time working from 55 and early retirement at 60
This was unarguably a key objective for Mr C. And so Red Circle undertook extensive 
amounts of cashflow modelling in order to try to determine which course of action would 
be most suitable for Mr C. As noted above, Mr C had already submitted his preference to 
enter into the PPF as part of the time to choose exercise, and presumably also on the 
basis of the options reports which indicated a higher overall income through the PPF. 
Red Circle therefore used the PPF for comparison purposes, which seems reasonable to 
me.
The comparison demonstrated that, at age 60, the annuity (without taking tax free cash) 
which would be produced by pension funds transferred and invested in the PPP 
(assuming 5% pa growth) would be £9,704, as opposed to the uncommuted guaranteed 
pension income of £14,563 from the PPF. After taking tax free cash of £80,152, the PFF 
would provide a guaranteed income of £12,028, whereas the PPP would produce a tax 
free lump sum of £145,197 and a residual annuity of £7,278.
The difference in the uncommuted (and so on broadly the same basis) income figures is 
striking  that which could be received from the PPF would be 50% higher than the 
annuity which could be produced from the transferred sum.
This marked loss of income on a guaranteed basis due to transferring is also consistent 
with the critical yield required to match the PPF benefits. Ive noted the comments around 
the discount rate quoted by the investigator in her assessment for comparison and 
feasibility purposes. My view is that this would have been a useful indicator of the type of 
investment return deemed feasible, albeit I acknowledge the business point that these 
may have been calculated on a conservative basis.
But the disparity in the guaranteed income available from both scenarios is in my view in 
any case a compelling demonstration of what would be relinquished by transferring. Its 
fair to say that Red Circle did provide warnings on the guarantees which would be given 
up, but Red Circle will be aware that risk warnings alone wouldnt render unsuitable advice 
suitable.Red Circles point of course is that Mr C required flexibility of income due to his 
particular circumstances and objectives. Its said that his goals simply couldnt be 
achieved by transferring into the PPF, and so Ive given this argument careful 
consideration.
Red Circle said that the cashflow modelling showed that, with a transfer of the defined 
benefits to the PPP, Mr C could partially retire at age 55, repay his mortgage and then fully 
retire at age 60. This was based upon the average performance of a particular asset mix, 
which seems to have been predominantly equities based.
By comparison, Red Circle said that if Mr C remained in the PPF, he would run out of 
money by age 76. But I have to say I struggle with the notion as put forward here of Mr C 
running out of money, given that, under the PPF, he would continue to receive a 
guaranteed income until he (and then his wife) died. There was only one scenario in 
which Mr C might actually run out of money (other than the state pension), and that was 
by transferring to the PPP.
Theres also been much focus on the lifestyle which Mr C wanted to maintain. But if a 
lifestyle cant be maintained without taking an unsuitable course of action, be that in the 
surrendering of guaranteed pension benefits and/or the exposure of transferred pension 
funds to a level of risk which was simply too high for either the individuals attitude to 
investment risk or their capacity for loss, an appropriate starting point would be to 
manage that individuals income expectations accordingly.
If the individual nevertheless wanted to proceed with a course of action which a business 
deemed to be unsuitable for them, they could be categorised as an insistent client. But as 
Ive said above, there was no such categorisation here, and so Mr C could be confident 
that the course of action of action recommended was deemed to be suitable by Red 
Circle to meet his objectives.
I dont think the type of fund into which Mr C was advised to place his transferred funds 
was necessarily unsuitable. I acknowledge Red Circles comments relating to Mr Cs 
willingness to transfer all of his defined contribution pension fund into a particular fund 
which had been recommended by a colleague. Although this may have represented a 
relatively minor part of Mr Cs pension provision at the time, by retirement its likely to 
have become more significant. I dont think this was the action of an individual who wasnt 
prepared to take some risk for the sake of greater reward.
But Ive also thought about whether Mr C could meet his key objectives of becoming a 
part time employee at 55 and repay the mortgage, whilst also retaining the valuable 
guarantees offered by the PPF.
There was no facility for Mr C to take tax free cash from the PPF at age 55 without also 
starting to take an income. And I accept that, by reducing his income at age 55 by 
becoming part time, this would have an impact on the household finances.
But in the income map included in the suitability report, even if the recorded essential 
expenditure of £28,812 continued due to non-repayment of the mortgage at age 55, the 
prospective combined income of both Mr and Mrs C after Mr C reduced his hours at age 
55 was still higher than this, at £31,620.
Ive also noted that Mr Cs net salary had already been input into the income map, but was 
then subject to a further tax deduction in the net row of that illustration. Its unclear as to 
whether the same applied to Mrs Cs salary. This would have the obvious effect of undervaluing Mr Cs income (if not also Mrs Cs) and presumably the same error was 
carried through to the prospective income once Mr C had become part time at age 55.
But even if Im wrong on this, and there was still insufficient headroom for Mr and Mrs 
Cs lifestyle expenditure, the remaining mortgage could simply have been restructured 
to require lower monthly repayments for the remaining five years before Mr C took full 
retirement at age 60. Monthly mortgage repayments were, at the time of the advice, 
£498, but these could have been reduced to around £150 on an interest only period for 
five years. And taking into account that the actual outstanding loan of £84,500 would 
have been markedly reduced in the seven or so years to age 55, the repayments would 
have been proportionately lower.
Alternatively, Mr and Mrs C could have still repaid some of the capital, but at a lower 
overall rate for five additional years, in order to provide more available income when Mr 
C became part time.
The remaining term of the fixed rate on their mortgage was unspecified, but as there was 
an early repayment figure quoted of around £2,000, this suggests that there might not 
have been long to wait until that fixed term expired. And so there was likely to have been 
scope of restructuring the mortgage in the future to align with Mr Cs plans seven years 
hence.
Theres nothing to suggest that mortgage repayment at 55 was an absolute requirement, 
for whatever reason, and the interest rate on their mortgage wasnt particularly high. 
Mortgage repayment is often understandably high on an individuals list of priorities, 
especially as they progress towards retirement. But the evidence doesnt support the 
position here that it was so vital (because of other affordability issues for example) that it 
would justify relinquishing valuable guaranteed benefits which could be taken at age 60 
through simply restructuring it.
But I cant see that this had been discussed as an option for Mr C to become part time 
and then take guaranteed benefits and fully repay the mortgage at age 60.
In terms of Mr Cs capacity for loss, which of course was a real prospect once his 
benefits were removed from their guaranteed environment, he was accruing further 
benefits in his defined contribution scheme, but the mainstay of his pension provision 
would be derived of the BSPS final salary scheme. As such, even if Mr C was prepared 
to take some risk with the smaller part of his pension provision produced by the former, I 
think the guarantees attached to the latter would have been of considerable value  he 
was after all attributed a low/medium capacity for loss - and shouldnt have been 
relinquished lightly in favour of a flexibility which could in any case have been met by 
making other adjustments to essential and, if necessary, optional expenditure.
What should Red Circle have done  and would it have made a difference to Mr 
Cs decision?
One of Mr Cs key recorded objectives - early retirement  was in any case achievable 
within the BSPS, and would have remained so in the PPF. For the reasons given above, I 
dont think the perceived advantage of flexibility of income outweighed the guaranteed 
benefits in the scheme, and Im satisfied that Mr Cs lump sum and income needs could 
have been met through reduced hours at age 55, expenditure adjustments from then to 
60, and then taking the scheme benefits and repaying the mortgage.And if there remains debate as to the feasibility of the critical yield being achieved, even 
at Red Circles own growth assumptions, the annuity likely to be available at age 60 was 
significantly below the income which would have been produced by the PPF.
I accept that the intended strategy wasnt to replace one source of guaranteed income 
with another, but it was nevertheless indicative of the value of the benefits being 
relinquished.
My current view is that, had alternatives such as those outlined above been discussed 
with Mr C, along with a recommendation that he retain his guaranteed pension benefits 
which would continue to have considerable value even in the PPF, in addition to a 
comprehensive explanation of the death benefits also offered, he would have accepted 
this.
Summary
For the reasons given, my view is that a fair and reasonable assessment of this case 
leads to the conclusion that the recommendation to transfer wasnt suitable for Mr C. The 
key contributing factors here are: the lack of exploration of the alternative of reducing Mr 
Cs income needs between the age of 55 and 60, at which point the scheme benefits 
could have been taken; and the clear indication that it would have been very difficult, at 
least in terms of the level of investment risk suited to Mr C, to achieve the same level of 
benefits as were being relinquished in the BSPS in the PPP.
What should Red Circle Financial Planning Limited do?
If my decision remains the same, my aim would be to put Mr C, as closely as possible, 
into the position hed be but for Red Circle Financial Planning Limiteds unsuitable advice.
Reinstatement of Mr Cs deferred benefits isnt possible. Therefore, I would direct Red Circle 
Financial Planning Limited to undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review 
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: 
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
The FCA has announced it intends this month to update the inflation assumptions used in 
this guidance. This could materially affect the amount of compensation due. Red Circle 
Financial Planning Limited would therefore need to take into account any amendments to 
the regulators Finalised Guidance FG 17/9.
As noted by the investigator, Mr C had already indicated a preference to transfer his 
deferred benefits to the PPF. And so its the benefits offered by the PPF which should be 
used for comparison purposes.
The calculation should be carried out as at the date of any final decision, using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate 
provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Cs acceptance of the decision. If 
this is completed before publication of the FCAs intended amendments to the guidance, 
Red Circle Financial Planning Limited would need to re-run the calculation within a month 
of the amended guidance being published  ensuring that any shortfall this shows in the 
original calculation is promptly made up to Mr C. Red Circle Financial Planning Limited 
need only re-run the calculation once, to take account of amendments currently planned 
by the FCA. Red Circle Financial Planning Limited would not subsequently need to 
recalculate following any further amendments the regulator might later make.Alternatively, Red Circle Financial Planning Limited may wait until publication of the 
FCAs amended Finalised Guidance (expected in March 2021) before calculating and 
paying the compensation due to Mr C in this case.
Red Circle Financial Planning Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and 
Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Cs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension 
Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any future 
loss should if possible be paid into Mr Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Cs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the future loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount should where possible be paid to Mr C within 90 days of the later of 
the date Red Circle Financial Planning Limited receives notification of his acceptance of 
any final decision, or, if it chooses to wait until the final guidance is published, the date of 
that publication.
Interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple 
from the date of any final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of that 
90 day period, that it takes Red Circle Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr C.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is 
data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair 
compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may 
recommend that the business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: If my decision remains the same, Ill require Red 
Circle Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the 
steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, Ill additionally require Red 
Circle Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr C any interest on that amount in full, as set 
out above.Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Red 
Circle Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr C any interest as set out above on the sum of
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I would also 
recommend that Red Circle Financial Planning Limited pays Mr C the balance. I would 
additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be 
paid to Mr C.
If Mr C accepts any final decision, the money award will become binding on Red Circle 
Financial Planning Limited. My recommendation wouldnt be binding on Red Circle 
Financial Planning Limited. Further, its unlikely that Mr C would be able to accept any 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my decision if it remains the 
same.
As with the investigator, I consider that the advice given by Red Circle Financial Planning 
Limited, and the associated loss of guaranteed benefits in retirement, will have caused Mr 
C no small amount of distress. As such, I also consider that a further payment of £300 is
warranted here.
Responses to the provisional decision
Mr C has made no further comments on my provisional findings, but did draw my attention to 
the recent announcement regarding the proposed buy-out of scheme benefits for those 
members who retained their scheme benefits, but opted to enter the PPF rather than the 
BSPS 2.
At my request, the investigator responded to say that, due to the likelihood of the PPF 
providing better overall benefits than remaining in the scheme due to the lower early 
retirement reduction factor, I didnt think that there would be any deficit in the PPF benefits 
which could be made up by the buy-out process  as had been referred to in the 
communication in October 2020 to members.
The investigator conveyed to Mr C that, if the complaint were ultimately upheld, it would be 
my intention to require Red Circle to undertake a redress calculation on the current known 
basis, rather than wait for the terms of any future buy-out to be confirmed. This would be in 
order to provide a resolution as swiftly as possible for both parties, and bring finality to 
proceedings.
The investigator further explained that, if the complaint were to be upheld, and Mr C accepted 
the decision, hed be doing so on the basis of my understanding as set out above. It was 
therefore important that Mr C was aware that, once a final decision had been issued, if 
accepted, it could not be amended or revisited in the future.
Mr C, along with Red Circle, was invited to make any further comments on this. Mr C 
confirmed he had no further comments to make.
Red Circle, for its part, summarised its previously expressed views on the suitability of the 
transfer, as follows:
There was no guarantee that the BSPS 2 would be established, so it couldnt be said 
that transferring into that scheme would represent a certain outcome for Mr C.
The relevant scheme for comparison purposes would have been the PPF, as this 
was Mr Cs expressed preference.The growth of the pension has to date exceeded the required critical yield.
As Mr C was comfortable with taking a higher level of investment risk, it was 
therefore suitable to advise him to transfer into the PPP.
Mr C wasnt in a position to overpay his mortgage and so would have been left at the 
end of the term without a repayment vehicle. By transferring, Mr C was able to take 
the tax free cash lump sum, repay his mortgage and significantly lower his monthly 
bills.
Mr Cs death in service benefits under either the BSPS 2 or the PPF wouldnt have 
been sufficient for his wife.
In response to my provisional findings, Red Circle wished to make the further additional 
points:
It said that it noted my finding that the death benefits would have been better under 
the PPF, as this would have constituted half of Mr Cs final salary pension. But it 
didnt think that this was right  it said that the full cash value of Mr Cs remaining 
pension on death, which had a transfer value of £347,096 in 2018, would be more 
than the 50% spouses pension  around £6,000 pa if Mr C took tax free cash  
which Mrs C would have received from the PPF. Mrs C would only have needed 
around £150,000 to buy an annuity for that amount. It wasnt therefore right to 
conclude that the death benefits would have been better under the PPF.
The references to annuity rates in my findings were irrelevant, it said, as Mr C had 
always intended to draw down his income in retirement. Further, although I had only 
assumed a 5% growth rate from now until Mr Cs retirement, the funds in which he 
had invested within the PPP had demonstrated annual performance of 6.6% in 
previous years  greater than the required critical yield.
It was difficult to see why I had suggested that Mr C should have waited to repay his 
mortgage. The sensible course of action would have been to repay this as soon as 
possible to decrease Mr Cs monthly expenditure. If it was being concluded that Mr C 
would take his tax free cash at 60, then the award should be altered to take account 
of the interest which Mr C would have saved by repaying his mortgage early.
Red Circle then made further submissions, as follows:
Id said that if a desired lifestyle cant be maintained without taking an unsuitable 
course of action, then a business such as Red Circle should manage those 
expectations accordingly. But it had demonstrated that Mr Cs lifestyle could be 
maintained, both now and in the future, with a high degree of certainty (96.8%) 
through the transfer of his benefits and without exposing him to undue investment 
risk beyond his stated attitude towards this.
By comparison, retaining the scheme benefits provided a high degree of certainty of 
Mr C not being able to maintain his lifestyle and would require changes, either pre or 
post planned retirement. The only thing to be guaranteed by retaining the PPF 
benefits was failure  although this would be a higher level of base income than the 
BSPS 2, this would still be below the desired income level. And if the same 
adjustments as proposed in my provisional decision were applied to the transferred 
benefits, it had an even higher chance of success for Mr C.
The early retirement benefits under the PPF wouldnt have been sufficient to enable 
the desired lifestyle  my decision had indicated that there would need to be 
expenditure adjustments between ages 55 and 60. Even with poor investment 
outcomes, it was likely that Mr C would be able to match the benefits from the PPF 
(albeit these were lower than the desired income).
Red Circle disagreed that, if the alternatives involving retention of his scheme 
benefits in the PPF and expenditure adjustments had been explained, Mr C would have accepted this. On the basis that the transfer allowed him to meet his objectives 
and spending plans without any adjustment between 55 and 60, it believed he would 
still have accepted the transfer. Any recommendation to retain his scheme benefits 
would have been unsuitable as it wouldnt have met Mr Cs goals without significant 
restrictions being imposed.
The PPF numbers in the cash flow and the reports had been based upon figures 
provided by the calculators available at the time. They used a Consumer Prices 
Index (CPI) figure of 2.3% pa to revalue the PPF benefits, close to the cap of 2.5%. 
But the actual CPI average over the last 20 years had been around 2%, so it was 
likely that the PPF figures had been overstated. This could amount to a compounded 
overstated difference over eight to 13 years by 3% and 5.3% respectively.
In the cashflow forecasts, Red Circle had used a figure of 2% for the increase in 
payment in PPF benefits, but the starting figure could be overstated by using the 
higher CPI revaluation figure. Between Mr C leaving the BSPS in May 2016 and the 
time of the CETV being provided in December 2018, the pension entitlement under 
the scheme had increased from £13,616 to £13,969, which allowed for the 
revaluation of benefits at the more generous Retail Prices Index (RPI) figure rather 
than CPI used by the PPF.
The total of increases which would have applied to the PPF over the last three years 
was 5.5% against a projection of 7%. Although Red Circle acknowledged that it was 
using currently known information to assess advice given in 2018, it was 
nevertheless submitting it as evidence that a lower PPF CPI revaluation would be 
more appropriate. And this would mean that the gap between income and planned 
expenditure would be even greater if the scheme benefits were retained - and the 
critical yield figures would also be impacted. But the transfer projections would be 
unaffected.
Red Circle referred to its previously submitted comments that the assumed discount 
rates and returns on investments used to project benefits for the transferred pension 
were conservative. It had calculated that his plan value would now be in the region of 
£441,000, which represented a rise of nearly 28% on a post-adviser fee transferred 
value of £345,000. This was an annualized return of around 8% net of all fees, which 
was considerably above the required critical yield to match the scheme benefits. This 
had also been through a period of several market slumps and had been achieved by 
an investment strategy which was suitable for Mr Cs attitude to risk.
Although it acknowledged that this could not be used as evidence of suitable advice 
at the time, Red Circle said that it hadnt been difficult to meet the required 
investment returns to replace the PPF benefits. From this point onwards, the critical 
yield required to match the scheme benefits at age 65 was around 3.5% pa, which 
was well within the discount rate of 4.4% - the rate of growth deemed possible - to 
the same age.
The annuity rates used in the TVAS report were standard rates and took no account 
of Mr C being a smoker or where he lived  which could also affect the available 
annuity rates. Having rerun the quotes based upon the currently available annuity 
rates, which Red Circle assumed could only be worse than they were in 2018, a 
presumed fund value of £708,629 - at age 65 on the basis of 5% pa growth  would 
provide an annuity of £18,324 pa, compared to a PPF value of £17,986. This 
assumed a 65 year old male smoker as the main annuitant, with a spouse of Mrs Cs 
age and with a fixed annual increase of 3% pa. And if the PPF income had been 
overstated due to the issues identified above relating to CPI revaluations, the PPF 
income at 65 would be £16,547.
There were also further potential lifestyle factors relating to Mrs C which might 
enhance the available annuity rates further. Further, these quotes were based on a 
fixed 3% pa increase in payment, whereas the PPF would increase by CPI up to a 
maximum of 2.5% pa. And in reality, CPI had been lower than this over the last 20 years. A lower increase in the annual annuity payment would enhance the starting 
income.
If tax free cash were taken at 65, the PPF income would reduce to £14,346 pa and 
the annuity would be £13,803, but the PPP would also provide an additional £81,573 
as tax free cash. At age 60, the PPF would provide an income of £14,563, whilst an 
annuity would produce £12,554. If tax free cash was taken, the PPF income would 
drop to £12,029 and the annuity would reduce to £9,407, although the tax free cash 
with the latter would £65,000 higher.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Death benefits
To firstly address the matter of death benefits, and Red Circles view that I was wrong in my 
conclusion that they would be better under the PPF rather than the transfer, Ive noted that 
this would be on the basis that a certain cash value from the transferred sum would still be 
available for Mrs C to rely upon. But the point I made in the provisional decision is that there 
is simply no way of knowing how much cash might still be available to Mrs C in the event of 
Mr Cs death. 
I dont think its appropriate to conclude that death benefits under the PPP would have been 
enhanced on the basis of the likely value of the pension pot in the early years of income 
drawdown  when an individual in good health such as Mr C would be more likely than not to 
achieve an average age of between 15 and 20 years beyond 65, as set out by the ONS. And 
so at a point when the remaining cash might well be much reduced, if available at all  
dependent of course upon investment performance. 
The death in service benefits were of concern to Mr C, but as Ive said above, he had no 
health issues at the time of the advice which might reasonably have prompted him to 
relinquish the guarantees attached to his own retirement income for the sake of an 
enhanced safety net for Mrs C or their dependent child. It wouldnt generally be deemed 
suitable, under those circumstances, for an individual to opt out of membership of an OPS 
for the sake of enhanced death in service benefits. And so neither would it be suitable for an 
individual in good health such as Mr C to transfer his deferred guaranteed benefits toward 
the same end.
Death in retirement benefits for Mrs C  and their dependent child, which I note hasnt been 
acknowledged by Red Circle in its response  would have been available from the date of Mr 
C taking scheme benefits. And these would have been guaranteed for life for Mrs C, and 
until leaving full time education for their dependent child. Neither benefit would have been 
dependent upon investment returns.
And so for the reasons given, I remain of the view that death benefits in the PPF, in the 
event of Mr Cs death at an average expected age, would more likely than not have bettered 
those available from whatever cash sum remained in the PPP (or successor flexi drawdown 
account).
But even if an different interpretation is possible here, as noted in the provisional decision, 
the provision of death benefits wasnt recorded by Red Circle as being a key objective or 
consideration point for Mr C.
Meeting Mr Cs key objectivesTurning then to the potential of the various options available to Mr C being able to meet his 
objectives, namely semi and then total early retirement at ages 55 and 65 respectively, Red 
Circle has firstly said that the annuity amounts available at the time were irrelevant on the 
basis that Mr C had always envisaged entering income drawdown. But I think this is 
misleading. I dont agree that Mr Cs intention had always been to enter income drawdown. 
He approached Red Circle for an appraisal of his options to meet his objectives, and had it 
recommended that he retain his guaranteed scheme benefits, and restructure other aspects 
of his expenditure if required (namely the mortgage repayments), he could have met his 
objectives. Neither a replacement annuity, nor income drawdown, were, or should have 
been, taken to be objectives in themselves.
I think its also worth repeating my commentary on the cashflow modelling undertaken by 
Red Circle and using the information in its own report:
There was no facility for Mr C to take tax free cash from the PPF at age 55 without also 
starting to take an income. And I accept that, by reducing his income at age 55 by becoming 
part time, this would have an impact on the household finances.
But in the income map included in the suitability report, even if the recorded essential 
expenditure of £28,812 continued due to non-repayment of the mortgage at age 55, the 
prospective combined income of both Mr and Mrs C after Mr C reduced his hours at age 55 
was still higher than this, at £31,620.
Ive also noted that Mr Cs net salary had already been input into the income map, but was 
then subject to a further tax deduction in the net row of that illustration. Its unclear as to 
whether the same applied to Mrs Cs salary. This would have the obvious effect of 
undervaluing Mr Cs income (if not also Mrs Cs) and presumably the same error carried
through to the prospective income once Mr C had become part time at age 55.
Im at a loss, therefore, to understand Red Circles comments that retention of the scheme 
benefits would guarantee the failure of Mr Cs plans. And even if there was the requirement 
of additional headroom for further expenditure, I then set out in the provisional decision the 
entirely feasible option of Mr and Mrs C entering into an interest only mortgage repayment 
period until Mr C reached 60, or alternatively restructuring and making lower capital 
repayments. 
My view on this remains unchanged. I have significant concerns about the wisdom and 
suitability of recommending the repayment of a mortgage with a relatively low interest rate by 
way of the surrender of the benefit of a guaranteed lifelong income from a defined benefit 
scheme  with the associated death benefits as set out above - especially when the 
mortgage repayment could simply have been restructured for five years, if indeed required at 
all.
There may have been a high probability, by Red Circles calculations, that the transfer to the 
PPP would have met Mr Cs objectives, but according to its own analysis as set out in the 
report, there was also certainty that Mr and Mrs Cs planned essential expenditure could be 
met by their prospective income, even after Mr C had become a part time worker at age 55. 
Red Circle hasnt addressed or commented on this specific important detail as raised in the 
provisional decision.  
Red Circle has further said that Mr Cs expenditure plans couldnt be met with the scheme 
benefits without any adjustment between age 55 and 60, or without significant restrictions 
being imposed. But I couldnt see that this was the case when issuing my provisional 
findings. And in the absence of an explanation as to why its own report was in some way 
flawed in terms of income versus expenditure, other than the double netting of the income I identified which in fact served to artificially reduce the expected income, I havent seen 
anything which would change my view on this.
Red Circle has disagreed that, if it the alternative of retaining his scheme benefits had been 
explained, Mr C would have accepted that option. But given that Mr C could seemingly meet 
his objectives by retaining his guaranteed scheme benefits, that there was no intention to 
replace one guaranteed income stream with another, and further that the likelihood of 
achieving enhanced benefits seemed unlikely given the critical yield, the assumed growth 
rates, and limited scope for aggressive investment given Mr Cs attitude to risk, its difficult to 
understand why Mr C wouldnt have preferred this option - and similarly problematic to 
understand why the transfer was recommended by Red Circle, as the professional party, as 
being suitable.
Revised figures
This brings me then to Red Circles contemporary assessment of a number of factors, 
including the performance of the PPP, the annuity rates which are now available (and on the 
actual basis of Mr and Mrs Cs lifestyle), along with the critical yield required in the future to 
match the relinquished scheme benefits.
Id firstly acknowledge what it has said about CPI revaluation rates and that these may have 
been lower than projected  and indeed may be so in the future. But certainly the latter 
cannot be known, and the projections are set out in a prescribed format to take account of 
such uncertainty. And as also noted by Red Circle, I need to take account of what was 
known, or projected to be the case, when the advice was given in 2018. 
Red Circle has also said that the PPP has performed beyond expectations, and that for the 
remaining years to age 65, the critical yield to match the scheme benefits now stands at 
around 3.5%. This, it has said, is well within the discount rate of 4.4% to the same age. This 
is of course interesting to note, but as acknowledged by Red Circle, is set out with the 
benefit of hindsight. And there remain several years until Mr C retires, during which time the 
returns on investment within the PPP may not be quite so auspicious. 
And this, really, is the fundamental point here. Mr Cs PPP may well benefit from periods of 
reasonable investment growth, as it has seemingly done so over the last few years, but as 
Red Circle will of course be aware, this is no guarantee of future performance. And there 
have been enough periods of significant downturns in financial markets over the last 20 
years for this to still present a very real danger to Mr C and his retirement plans. This doesnt 
simply mean that the returns in the future may not be quite so high. Adverse market 
conditions may mean that, rather than the fund size continuing to grow or even maintain its 
value, it may reduce, and has been seen in the recent past, quite markedly so.
Mortgage interest saving
Red Circle has raised the point about the mortgage interest which Mr C would otherwise 
have continued to pay if he hadnt transferred his benefits. Mr C has confirmed that he hasnt 
repaid his mortgage, and may now defer this. As also identified by Red Circle in response to 
confirmation that he hasnt repaid his mortgage, Mr C is not yet in a position to withdraw 
from his pension for that purpose  this point (age 55) still being several years away. 
A redress calculation would simply compare the benefit, as of now, of having transferred 
against the notional benefit of remaining a deferred member of the scheme. Whether Mr C 
chooses to use available tax free cash to repay his mortgage at age 55, or restructure his 
finances and defer that repayment, will be entirely up to him. By repaying it at age 55, he would of course benefit from lower outgoings, but he would also miss out on any (tax 
efficient) future fund growth on such a substantial withdrawal made from his pension fund. 
I dont therefore think that an unknown future decision on this should be, or indeed 
reasonably can be, factored into a redress calculation undertaken now. 
Summary
If there were sufficiently compelling reasons for the transfer, such as there being a likely 
deficit in Mr and Mrs Cs income when Mr C became part time, and which couldnt be 
addressed through other means such as restructuring other essential outgoings, or Mr C 
suffered from ill health which might mean that a lump sum for both death in service or early 
on in retirement would provide a likely greater benefit to Mrs C and their dependent child, 
then I think it might be possible to reach a different view here. But these conditions are 
absent.
I accept that the PPP may have performed well since the advice was given, and that it may 
yet continue to do so. If the PPP has performed well, as a product of what Im confident Red 
Circle would say was sound financial planning, or as may also be argued, good fortune in an 
investment environment which could not possibly be accurately predicted, the amount of loss 
as of now, if any, will be proportionately lower. And so this will be to Red Circles advantage.
But the PPP may also not perform well in the future, and could in fact perform quite poorly. 
Mr C might then be subject to the types of restrictions in income which Red Circle was  and 
remains - confident would almost certainly not apply. Ultimately, the only guarantee of Mr C 
being able to meet his planned expenditure at age 55 and beyond was by means of retaining 
the scheme benefits, even in the PPF. 
And so my overall view remains, for all the reasons set out above and in the provisional 
decision, that Red circle should have recommended that Mr C retain his scheme benefits.
Putting things right
My aim to is put Mr C, as closely as possible, into the position hed be but for Red Circle 
Financial Planning Limiteds unsuitable advice. Reinstatement of Mr Cs deferred benefits 
isnt possible. Therefore, Red Circle Financial Planning Limited should undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers.
As Ive said above, had Mr C not transferred his pension funds to the PPP, he would have 
joined the PPF, having already registered that preference as part of the time to choose 
exercise. And so its the benefits offered by the PPF which should be used for comparison 
purposes.
As Ive also set out above, Im aware of the recent announcement regarding the proposed 
insurance buy-out of the benefits currently under PPF assessment, which is scheduled to 
occur towards the end of 2021. Its been confirmed that, when this happens, all members 
whose PPF benefits would be less than their full scheme benefits (i.e. the amount they 
would be if the scheme were not in a PPF assessment period) will see an increase to their 
benefits. All other members will see no change as a result of the buy-out.
As such, the calculation on the basis of choosing to enter the PPF should be carried out 
using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of the actual calculation. Red Circle Financial Planning Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions 
(DWP) to obtain Mr Cs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any future loss 
should if possible be paid into Mr Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect 
of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax free cash and 75% would have been 
taxed according to Mr Cs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the future loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr C within 90 days of the date 
Red Circle Financial Planning Limited receives notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision.
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
that 90 day period, that it takes Red Circle Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr C.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Red Circle Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr 
C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Red 
Circle Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr C any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Red Circle 
Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr C any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Red Circle Financial Planning Limited pays Mr C the balance. I additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr C.If Mr C accepts my decision, the money award is binding on Red Circle Financial Planning 
Limited. My recommendation is not binding on Red Circle Financial Planning Limited. 
Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. 
Mr C may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to 
accept this decision.
As with the investigator, I consider that the advice given by Red Circle Financial Planning 
Limited, and the associated loss of guaranteed benefits in retirement, will have caused Mr C 
no small amount of worry and distress. As such, I also consider that a further payment of 
£300 is warranted here.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Red Circle Financial Planning Limited should 
undertake the above calculation and, if it demonstrates a loss, compensate Mr C 
accordingly.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman