DRN-2405698
The complaint
Miss C has complained Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont refund transactions 
she didnt make, nor did she apply for increases to her current account overdraft.
What happened
Miss C went on holiday with her boyfriend in November 2019. 
Shes told us she got a call from someone saying they worked for Halifax. She had to 
provide some ID information and was told to just use one specific cash machine for the rest 
of the holiday because of the risk of her card being cloned.
Shed then had some problems using her card at that cash machine and believed her card 
had been retained by the cash machine. As shed got another call from someone purporting 
to be from Halifax, she was reassured that a new card would be sent to her home address. 
Miss C had also not had her mobile phone the whole time. She now feels that other people 
at the apartment she was at may have had access to it. 
When Miss C got home, she wasnt feeling well so didnt immediately contact Halifax. When 
she did, she realised that shed been scammed. Shed not known about an increase to her 
overdraft limit, the large number of transactions made with her debit card or the increase to 
her overdraft. 
Miss C believed her account must have been compromised when she used the cash 
machine.
Halifax rejected Miss Cs fraud claim. Theyd seen another case with a similar claim. They 
felt this was suspicious and overall that Miss C had known her account was being misused 
and authorised this. They wouldnt refund the money she had lost and expected her to repay 
the overdraft.
Miss C brought her complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator noted the 
evidence that Miss C continued to use her own phone to log into her Halifax app throughout 
her holiday. She hadnt noticed the many transactions taking place which she now said shed 
not authorised. He wouldnt be asking Halifax to refund Miss C or cancel the debt.  
Miss C now found herself in a position where she had lost money and was substantially in 
debt. Shes asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
I can see two loan providers have been contacting Miss C asking her to make loan 
repayments for loans taken out in the sums of £1,300 and £1,400 on 15 and 22 November 
2019. 
Her representative has also sent evidence of where these loans were applied from showing 
that this was not where Miss C was during this period (as she was overseas on holiday).
This complaint has now been allocated to an ombudsman for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ill explain below why Ive reached the decision I have.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other circumstances do apply  specifically 
in this type of case whether the customer acted with intent in looking after their card and 
PIN. So when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud 
complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer made the transactions 
themselves or allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank 
to refund them.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than either of the two 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point 
made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed 
on what I think are the key issues here. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If 
theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
To help me reach a decision, Ive considered detailed evidence provided to us by Halifax 
which includes records of Miss Cs online and mobile banking use throughout this period. 
Halifax has also told us of a similar fraud on another Halifax account which bears similarities 
to Miss Cs case. 
Im also aware that CIFAS, who manage the industry fraud database, alerted its members to 
a specific fraud-type happening in one specific overseas country. This alert also matches the 
circumstances of what happened here. That seems to indicate that this was something that 
was happening. In all the cases Ive seen, details are similar to what happened to Miss C.
Ive considered the following issues:
The overdraft application to extend Miss Cs overdraft from £200 to £2,650 was made 
using Miss Cs genuine bank details using her online banking login. The additional 
funds allowed transactions to be conducted with Miss Cs debit card as soon as she 
arrived overseas.
Different devices were linked to Miss Cs account over the period the fraud took 
places but all were using similar IP addresses.
Miss Cs representative has pointed to a different UK-based IP address being used to 
apply for the payday loans which credited her account. I agree thats the case. 
Knowing what I do about the way these frauds are conducted, I think its unlikely Miss C applied for the loans herself. In fact different mobile numbers and email 
addresses were provided. However that alone doesnt mean Miss C wasnt aware 
these loans were being applied for.
Miss C has said she never lost her phone but it was often being recharged so 
anybody she was sharing accommodation with had access to it. Id have expected at 
a minimum her phone screen would have been locked and access to her mobile 
banking through an app would be password-protected.
Miss C has not suggested that her online banking and security details may have 
been compromised, nor is there anything to show she notified her bank of any 
concerns until the discussion after her recovery from illness.
Miss C accepts Halifax sent her texts during this period. These notified her she was 
about to exceed her overdraft limit and that shed set up payments to a third party. 
Miss C didnt take any action showing she may have been concerned about this.
Miss C continued to log on to her account during her stay overseas. Once her debit 
card had been retained by a cash machine, Id have expected her to keep an eye on 
her account in case of any suspicious transactions. Miss C hasnt denied logging 
onto her account but didnt notice anything unusual.
Miss Cs debit card continued to be used fraudulently for a fortnight after she 
returned home. I wouldnt expect that kind of behaviour from an unknown third party 
whod got hold of her card. That suggests someone knew Miss C wasnt imminently 
about to report her card missing. I also note that she didnt seem surprised she had 
no replacement card ready and waiting for her when she got home.
Miss C has said she didnt have cards which worked and managed in her time 
abroad by borrowing from her boyfriend. 
Over the period Miss C was abroad, there was a large amount of money paid into her 
Halifax account. Her debit card was used extensively for large value transactions. I 
find it surprising Miss C didnt notice any of this unusual account activity even though 
the evidence shows she was logging onto her mobile app.
Ive considered Miss Cs point that this all took place without her knowledge but I find this 
hard to believe. Its unclear to me how all her security details for both her online and mobile 
banking could have been compromised as well as her debit card being taken and used with 
the PIN, without her having shared that information.
Miss Cs story that her cards could have been swallowed by cash machines doesnt hang 
together Im afraid. 
And thats apart from the evidence showing Miss C was checking the status of her account 
and never once complained to Halifax about the potential misuse. 
A possible scenario is that Miss C was persuaded by friends or acquaintances to allow her 
details to be used in exchange for a free holiday or some other recompense. She may not 
even have known exactly what that use would entail. However this would mean that Miss C 
allowed someone else to use her bank account to apply for loans and then use her card to 
spend all the money. She may even have been told that as shed not taken out the overdraft, 
she wouldnt have to repay it. This isnt the case as I believe Miss C in allowing the use of 
her card and account had authorised the fraud to take place.
I note that the overall debt that Miss C will be expected to repay is an extremely large 
amount of money and so really appreciate her distress and the position she now finds 
herself in.
However overall I believe Miss C authorised the overdraft application with Halifax and 
allowed her debit card and PIN to be used by a third party.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Miss Cs complaint against 
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman