DRN-2380558
The complaint
Miss A and Mr C complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has turned down a theft 
claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 10 February 2020, Miss A and Mr C travelled abroad. Theyd taken out around £940 in 
cash, which theyd stored in their bags. When they reached their destination, they took a taxi 
from the airport to their booked accommodation. They said the taxi driver was very insistent 
that they should put their bags in the boot, rather than keep the bags with them. When they 
arrived at their accommodation, they found that around £700 had been stolen from their 
bags. Miss A and Mr C made a claim on their travel insurance policy for the stolen money. 
URV turned down the claim. It said it didnt cover theft claims for money if the cash wasnt on 
a policyholders person, in locked hotel accommodation or in a locked safe or safety deposit 
box. It didnt think its policy terms had been met.
Miss A and Mr C werent happy with URVs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Miss A and Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
that money kept in a car boot was covered by the policy terms. And while the policy didnt 
define what URV meant by on your person, she thought the ordinary meaning of the phrase 
meant something someone carries or which is attached to them. So she thought it was fair 
for URV to turn down Miss A and Mr Cs claim.
Miss A and Mr C disagreed. They felt the investigator had reached a subjective outcome on 
the complaint and relied on her own interpretation of URVs terms and conditions. They 
hadnt planned to go away and be robbed and it had been beyond traumatic. They said that 
URV had a pattern of bad behaviour in handling claims and that no-one does anything about 
it. The claim had caused them stress and anxiety. They said theyd continue to pursue the 
complaint until a fair outcome had been reached.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Miss A and Mr C, I think it was fair for URV to 
turn down their claim. Ill explain why.
First, its important I make clear that were not the industry regulator. My role is to look at 
individual complaints brought by consumers and consider whether a financial business has 
done anything wrong which it needs to put right. So in making my decision, Ive only 
considered the specific circumstances of Miss A and Mr Cs complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Miss A and Mr Cs policy and the circumstances of their claim to decide whether 
URV handled the claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms of Miss A and Mr Cs policy as these form the basis of their 
contract with URV. The policy does cover stolen money, up to a limit of £500 for loss of 
cash. However, this section of the policy also includes a list of things which URV specifically 
excludes from cover. It says:
But we wont do anything if:
your cash or event tickets were not on your person, or locked in a safe or safety 
deposit box, or left out of sight in your locked accommodation and you can provide 
evidence of unauthorised and/or forcible entry.
Based on what Miss A and Mr C have told us, the cash was kept in their bags, which were in 
the boot of the taxi they were travelling in. Its clear that the cash wasnt in a locked safe, 
safety deposit box, or in Miss A and Mr Cs locked accommodation. So Ive gone on to 
consider whether URV shouldve reasonably treated the cash as being on Miss A and Mr Cs 
person.
As the investigator explained, URV hasnt defined what it means by on your person. In the 
absence of such a definition, Ive also considered what I think is the ordinary and natural 
meaning of this phrase. I think on your person means something a person is wearing; that 
theyre carrying or which theyre holding. Examples might be money stored in a wallet in 
someones pocket; in a worn money-belt or in a bag theyre carrying. And a dictionary 
defines the phrase as: in a pocket, bag or something else that you are holding.
While I appreciate that Miss A and Mr C felt pressured to store their bags in the back of the 
taxi, I dont think I can fairly find that once the bags were in the boot; they were on Miss A 
and Mr Cs person. Thats because they werent in a position to notice any interference with 
their bags or intervene in any potential theft. The money was out of their sight and control.
I sympathise strongly with Miss A and Mr Cs position, because I dont doubt how stressful 
this situation mustve been for them and Miss A has told us about the impact on her health. 
But overall, I dont think it was unfair for URV to decide that Miss A and Mr Cs claim wasnt 
covered by the terms of their policy. So I think it was reasonable for URV to turn down their 
claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A and Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman