DRN-3466715
The complaint
Miss B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax lent irresponsibly when it 
approved a loan. 
What happened
Miss B was an existing customer of Halifax and had current accounts with associated 
overdrafts as well as a loan when she applied for a second loan in February 2015. Halifaxs 
application recorded that Miss B was employed with an income of £2,300 a month. Halifax 
used outgoings of £300 a month. Miss B had one dependent. 
Halifax referred the application for further checks but went on to approve a loan for £7,000 
over 60 months with a payment of £188.58. 
In 2016 Miss B contacted Halifax and explained shed had to give up work to look after a 
family member. Halifax agreed to accept reduced payments until July 2018 when the 
account was referred to its recoveries team and interest was suspended. 
Last year Miss B complained that Halifax had lent irresponsibly when it approved both loan 
applications. Halifax sent Miss B a final response but didnt uphold her complaint. Miss B 
referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They said we 
couldnt consider Miss Bs complaint about the first loan she took out in 2014 because of the 
time limits noted in our rules. But the investigator upheld Miss Bs complaint about the 
second loan. 
Halifax asked to appeal and said it had carried out proportionate checks and relied on the 
information Miss B provided in her application. As Halifax asked to appeal, Miss Bs 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has said, we cant look at the loan Miss B took out in 2014 because of 
the time limits in our rules. In this decision, Im going to look at the loan Halifax approved in 
February 2015. 
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say Halifax had to complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to ensure Miss B could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. These 
affordability checks needed to be focused on the borrowers circumstances. The nature of 
whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various factors like: 
- The amount of credit;
- The total sum repayable and the size of regular repayments;
- The duration of the agreement;
- The costs of the credit; and 
- The consumers individual circumstances. 
That means theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to 
consider the above points when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive looked at Miss Bs circumstances at the time she completed the loan application. I can 
see that, at this point, Miss B had current accounts with Halifax. Ive seen statements for two 
accounts that have overdraft facilities in place. One overdraft was £4,300 and the other was 
£700. In addition, Miss B had taken another loan out with Halifax in 2014, a year earlier. That 
loan was for £8,000. So at the point of Miss Bs application she owed around £12,000 to 
Halifax. 
Ive looked at the information included in the application and can see Halifax used an 
outgoings figure of £300. But Im not persuaded that was a realistic figure for all Miss Bs 
outgoings. The monthly overdraft fees and Miss Bs existing Halifax loan repayments 
wouldve taken up a large portion of that figure. I cant see anything that shows Halifax 
considered general outgoings like rent, food, transport, childcare and utilities etc either. 
We recently asked Halifax to provide evidence of the information it found on Miss Bs credit 
file in February 2015 but its been unable to supply it. So whilst Halifax has told us it checked 
Miss Bs credit file it hasnt provided evidence to support what it found. 
Taking all of the available information into account, I think Halifax shouldve carried out 
better checks before approving Miss Bs loan in February 2015. Options like reviewing Miss 
Bs bank statements or obtaining further evidence of her income and outgoings couldve 
been used to verify whether another loan as sustainable.
Halifax has told us Miss Bs income was higher than the figure she declared on the 
application. Halifax has provided running totals of the months preceding Miss Bs loan. Ive 
looked at the bank statements provided but didnt find a clear picture of Miss Bs income. 
Whilst there are lots of transfers that, added together, exceed £2,300 a month at points, Im 
not persuaded calculating Miss Bs income figure is that simple. I note that many of the 
transfers appear to be between Miss Bs Halifax accounts. In addition, Miss B has explained 
that some of the funds received into her account were intended for her daughters care and 
not income. Whilst Miss B mayve been working at the time of her application, I dont think 
the level of income was consistent or straight forward. 
I think Halifax shouldve done more to check Miss Bs regular income and outgoings before 
approving her loan in February 2015. Had it done so, Im satisfied Halifax wouldve found 
Miss B had become reliant on credit to make ends meet and wasnt in a position to 
sustainably repay further borrowing. In my view, Halifax lent irresponsibly when it approved 
Miss Bs loan. As a result, Im going to uphold Miss Bs complaint and direct Halifax to refund 
all interest, fees and charges applied to Miss Bs loan from the date it was approved. 
I dont think it would be fair for Halifax to record adverse information on Miss Bs credit file 
when it lent irresponsibly. So Im also going to tell Halifax to remove all adverse information 
recorded about Miss Bs loan from her credit file. 
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Miss Bs complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Bs complaint and direct Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax to settle as follows: - Refund all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from inception to date
- The refund should be used to reduce any remaining balance. If a balance remains 
once the refund is applied Halifax should ensure it isnt subject to future interest
- If the refund results in a credit balance, Halifax should refund it to Miss B with 8% 
interest from the date the surplus occurred to the date of settlement
- Remove all adverse information recorded about the loan from Miss Bs credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman