DRN-1562770
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Next Retail Limited (Next) should not have given her credit as 
she could not afford it.
Mrs B has been represented by her husband through this decision. For ease, and 
because Mrs B is the account holder, I will refer to her throughout this decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them 
again here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here 
I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think 
is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Our powers to consider complaints about store card credit didnt begin until April 2007 
so Ive not been able to consider the original provision of the store card in 2006. But I 
have reviewed the credit provided by Next since our powers began.
When providing additional credit, the business should check its affordable. The type of 
checks which a business should carry out should be proportionate, so (for instance) a 
mortgage lender will ask for bank statements and payslips, but a store card offering a 
low credit limit doesnt have to go into so much detail.
In considering this complaint, Ive looked at whether Next carried out proportionate 
checks, and at what information they had been given about Mrs Bs financial 
circumstances. The methods Next used to establish affordability were for them to decide 
but the practices and procedures they used had to be effective. And the depth of their 
analysis could be proportionate to the amount of money being requested.
Next have explained that when they increased Mrs Bs credit limit, for instance in in April 
2013 and in February 2016, they considered an affordability index, that was created from 
a review of Mrs Bs credit file. They say they also reviewed Mrs Bs account performance. 
I think they were reasonable and proportionate checks given the amount of credit being 
advanced.
Theyve explained that at no time did Mrs B come anywhere near exceeding her credit 
limit and that payments were always made on time. Theyve also explained that they 
reduced Mrs Bs credit limit on occasion when the affordability index worsened a little and 
even though her payment history on the account, and her utilisation of the credit provided, 
remained good.
Ive reviewed the account history and affordability index scores and can see that Next 
have provided an accurate picture of what happened on Mrs Bs account.
In those circumstances I dont think it would be reasonable to suggest Next were aware 
of Mrs Bs financial difficulties and I think the checks they applied were sufficient.
When Next became aware of Mrs Bs problems in 2018 I would expect them to be 
supportive and positive in their approach: I think they were. They stopped charging interest 
and they agreed a payment plan with Mrs B.
So, overall, Im not persuaded Next need to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
Phillip McMahon
 
Ombudsman