DRN-3130601
The complaint
Miss B complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) unfairly applied overdraft charges when she 
was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Miss B complained to TSB about the charges applied to her account which she says put her 
in further financial difficulty. She also complained about a fraudulent direct debit leaving her 
account and that a late payment has been marked on her credit file despite making her 
payments on the repayment plan agreed. 
TSB confirmed that the charges were applied because Miss B had broken the payment plan 
by not making the first payment in December 2019 and that all charges were applied 
correctly in line with the terms and conditions of the account. It agreed to refund £160 in 
charges. 
TSB also confirmed that the direct debit mandate showed the payment was first activated on 
23 July 2019 and that TSB had cancelled it and directed Miss B to let the company know 
that she wished to cancel the payment. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Bs concerns and reached the conclusion TSB 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss B unfairly and so didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. Miss B disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B has made a number of complaints to our service  I hope that she wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an informal 
dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint  the charges applied to her account. Our rules allow me to do that.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
Ive seen that Miss B has in some of her correspondence referred to the proportionality of 
the charges applied to her account. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying 
that I havent considered whether the various amounts TSB charged over the years were fair 
and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. And this also applies in regards to how a bank runs its 
business. I cannot make a bank change its systems or processes such as how debt 
repayment plans are agreed or when it reports a missed payment to a credit reference 
agency. 
That said, while Im not looking at TSBs various charging structures or processes per se, it 
wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss B if it applied any interest, fees and 
charges to Miss Bs account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been aware Miss B was experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where TSB didnt treat Miss B fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that TSB did treat Miss B unfairly or unreasonably here though. I 
say this because having looked at Miss Bs statements I cant see anything to suggest that 
TSB ought to have realised she might have been experiencing financial difficulty prior to it 
being notified of this. 
Miss B may argue her regular use of her overdraft was in itself an indication that she was 
struggling. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Miss B 
expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual 
and discretionary transactions. 
There were regular deposits of salary and cash transfers into the account and Miss B was 
able to bring the overdraft down before once again going on to use her overdraft to make 
debit card transactions and further money transfers. I accept this doesnt necessarily mean 
that Mrs I wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these 
transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted TSB to any potential financial 
difficulty. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for TSB to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Miss Bs account was being used. 
TSB also refunded a large proportion of charges made to Miss Bs account in August 2019 
as well as agreeing a repayment plan and freezing charges on her account for 6 months.  So 
taking everything into consideration I dont think TSB treated Miss B unfairly or unreasonably 
when she notified it she was in financial difficulty. 
Miss B is unhappy that TSB have recorded negative information on her credit file. But TSB 
does have a duty to make sure the information it reports on its customers affairs to credit 
reference agencies is factually accurate and if Miss B missed a payment on her repayment 
plan then TSB is entitled to report this or anything else about how shes managed her 
finances with it. 
Ive noted Miss Bs concerns that this may affect her credit rating and ability to borrow 
money. She might be interested to know that she can place a Notice of Correction on her 
credit records. The purpose of such a notice is to allow someone the opportunity to add any 
explanatory circumstances that they would like prospective lenders to take into consideration 
when making lending decisions. If Miss Bs wishes to do this, she should contact the credit 
reference agencies directly.
Finally, as the direct debit was cancelled by TSB when Miss B notified it of it not being 
authorised I cant say that TSB did anything wrong. So it follows that I do not uphold Miss Bs 
complaint.I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss B  especially as shes been waiting 
some time for this answer. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman