DRN-3572968
The complaint
Mr G complains about the service he received from PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA when 
he informed it that he hadnt authorised a transaction on his account.
What happened
Mr G marked a transaction as unauthorised on his PayPal account because he didnt 
recognise it. PayPal concluded there had been no unauthorised activity and closed the 
dispute. Mr G says he disputed the unauthorised transaction a second time and was told the 
merchant was pre-authorised to access his account but provided no further information.
Mr G complained about how his dispute had been handled. In response to his complaint, 
PayPal said one of its team members had helped Mr G with his questions and so was able 
to provide a resolution. It said it was satisfied that its actions were correct, fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr G remained unhappy and asked our service to consider his complaint. Our investigator 
looked into his concerns and thought Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. He didnt think 
PayPal had done enough to investigate the disputed transaction. He recommended PayPal 
refund the amount that was paid and pay Mr G £50 for the inconvenience he was caused.
PayPal disagreed with our investigators view. It felt it had provided sufficient evidence to 
show how the billing agreement had been set up and that other undisputed transactions had 
been completed under the same agreement. So, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
PayPal says the transaction Mr G reported as unauthorised was part of an active billing 
agreement on his account. Its referred to the following wording in its user agreement:
You can use a billing agreement to manage payments to the same recipient(s) on an 
ongoing automatic basis. When you enter into a billing agreement:
1. You authorised the named recipient(s) to collect payments from your account as the 
recipient determines (this could be for payments of amounts you owe the recipient for 
a purchase of goods or services under a separate contract that you have with the 
recipient).
2.You instruct PayPal to pay the named recipient(s) or other recipient(s) that the 
named recipient(s) direct(s) when the named recipient(s) request(s) PayPal to make 
your payment.
PayPal has provided a screenshot which appears to show that Mr G set the billing 
agreement up on 17 January 2021. However, Mr G cant remember setting it up and he 
didnt know what the payments were for. He says PayPal didnt provide him with any details 
to support the idea that it was an authorised transaction or to help him identify it. Mr G is 
concerned that he might have been a victim of a scam.
PayPal has referred to this wording in the making a payment section of its user agreement:
Payments made under the billing agreement may be in variable amounts and may be made 
on various dates. We are only a payment service provider so we cant (and please dont 
expect us to) know what you have or havent agreed with the recipient or to know why the 
recipient decided to collect your payment. We are not obliged to verify or confirm the amount 
the recipient presents to us for the purpose of processing payments made under the billing 
agreement.
However, in the receiving payments section of PayPals user agreement under reversals 
it says:
We may have to compensate your payer when they claimed that there was a problem with 
their payment (including that their payment was unauthorised or incorrect or that their billing 
agreement payment was not expected).
I think this shows that PayPal is able to carry out an investigation into payments which have 
been disputed under a billing agreement and is also able to reverse them. 
PayPal has commented that Mr G had made other undisputed payments on the same billing 
agreement. Its provided a screenshot that shows there were three transactions prior to the 
one Mr G disputed. However, these were all for small amounts, with the total amount taken 
being less than £20. So, I dont think the fact that Mr G didnt dispute the earlier transactions 
is enough evidence to conclude that he had given the payee the authority to take the 
payments that it did.
 
Im not persuaded that PayPal did what it should have done to investigate Mr Gs dispute. 
While it was only a small transaction, Mr G say he spent many hours trying to identify the 
transaction to ensure his account hadnt been compromised and to ensure future 
unauthorised transactions wouldnt go through. So, I think it would be fair for PayPal to 
reimburse him for the transaction hes disputed and compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience hes experienced.
Putting things right
PayPal should pay £4.99 Mr G for the disputed transaction with an additional £50 for distress 
and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct PayPal (Europe) Sarl et 
Cie SCA to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman