DRN-4121632
The complaint
Mr H complains Monzo Bank Ltd hasnt refunded transactions hes disputed. Hes also 
unhappy about its poor customer service.
What happened
Mr H had an account with Monzo Bank. Monzo Bank took the decision to close his account 
after the transactions Mr H has disputed that Im considering took place. Mr H reported other 
disputed transactions around the same time  ones that took place at an ATM. Im not 
considering those transactions in this decision  but that dispute has provided some 
additional background.
On 22 January 2023 Mr H contacted Monzo Bank through its chat service to dispute a 
number of transactions that had occurred on his account. Mr H said that payments had been 
made to three different beneficiaries. He said he believed his ex-partner had something to do 
with the payments as he believed one of the beneficiaries was known to her.
Monzo Bank looked into the transactions Mr H had disputed and said that the evidence 
showed they werent fraudulent, so he was liable for them. Mr H complained about Monzo 
Banks response, and although Monzo Bank accepted that it had let him down from a 
customer service point of view  for which it agreed to pay £100 in compensation  it said its 
decision was the right one. Mr H remained unhappy and complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint and said that the evidence Monzo 
Bank had provided showed that Mr H had his phone at the time of the disputed transactions 
and that they were made from his phone. Our investigator didnt, therefore, think that Monzo 
Bank had acted unfairly saying that it was holding Mr H liable for the transactions. They also 
thought that the £100 compensation it had paid was fair. So, they didnt uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. Mr H wasnt happy with what our investigator had said and asked for his 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, his complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H says he was at a party when he lost his phone. He says that someone accessed his 
online banking and transferred money from his account to third parties whilst he didnt have 
access to his phone. Mr H says he recovered his phone a few days later and contacted 
Monzo Bank to explain what had happened. He told Monzo Bank that he didnt recognise 
any of the names of the third parties to whom money was transferred.
Both parties accept that Monzo Banks customer service wasnt as good as it should have 
been when Mr H reported these disputed transactions  he was told to fill in the wrong form 
several times, for example, and even though most responses to his messages on Monzo 
Banks chat service were quick there were a couple of occasions when responses took too 
long. I agree with our investigator, however, that the £100 Monzo Bank has paid Mr H in 
compensation  having acknowledged its customer service wasnt always as good as it 
should have been  fairly compensates for this. In the circumstances, the only issue I have 
to decide is whether or not Monzo Bank acted fairly when it said it was holding Mr H liable 
for the transactions hed disputed.
Monzo Bank has been able to provide evidence that shows that Mr H was in possession of 
his phone at the same time as the disputed transactions took place  the disputed 
transactions took place between 16 and 21 January 2023. Monzo Bank has also been able 
to show that whoever authorised the transactions would have had to use Mr Hs PIN and that 
the transactions were authorised using his phone. That means the person who authorised 
them would have had to know the passcode to Mr Hs phone too. I agree with our 
investigator that it wasnt unfair of Monzo Bank to hold Mr H liable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman