DRN-3349419
The complaint
Miss T complains Intrum UK Limited have misallocated payments shes made when 
collecting debts from her.
What happened
Miss T had four accounts with Intrum. Shed been making payments towards them for a 
number of years.
In 2019, Miss T received a letter from Intrum to say there was an outstanding balance of 
about £1,400 on one of her accounts. Miss T replied to Intrum to say she believed the 
outstanding balance was about £600  so there must be a mistake.
Intrum looked into Miss Ts accounts and discovered a number of payments over 
several years had been credited to the wrong accounts. This was why the balance of 
the account Miss T complains about was much higher than Miss T had expected.
After reconciling all Miss Ts accounts, Intrum said three of Miss Ts accounts had been 
paid in full, and the last one  the one theyd originally written to Miss T about in 2019 - had 
a remaining balance of about £500  but they said theyd be willing to write this amount off 
and consider all Miss Ts accounts closed.
In May 2020, during the time Intrum was looking into the accounts, Miss T received a letter 
from Intrum saying she had overpaid one of her accounts (which had two different 
accounts numbers as the original account number changed after it was sold to Intrum), so 
she wanted a refund. Intrum later said this letter had been generated in error and Miss T 
wasnt due a refund.
Miss T wasnt happy with Intrums response to her concerns so she referred her complaint 
to this service. An Investigator considered Miss Ts complaint. He said we could only 
consider what had happened in the six years prior to Miss Ts complaint and hed seen no 
evidence Miss T had overpaid her accounts with Intrum, so he didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss T said she still felt she was due a refund. In particular, because Intrum themselves 
had sent her a letter saying shed overpaid. And as she didnt agree, the complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
We confirmed with Miss T that the decision would only be considering payments in the six 
years prior to her complaint. She said she was happy for us to proceed on that basis.
I issued a provisional decision setting out what I thought. Ive set out those findings below 
and they form part of this decision. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss T believes she has overpaid what she owes Intrum and is due a refund of about
£1,000. She says this because her own records suggest she has and Intrum sent her a 
letter in May 2020 to say one of her accounts may have been overpaid. The letter also says 
that shed need to get in touch with Intrum to confirm whether the account had in fact been 
overpaid, and further proof of payment might be required. So, I dont agree that this letter 
says, definitively, that Miss T had overpaid her account with Intrum.
Ive reviewed Miss Ts bank statements and compared them with Intrums payment history 
records for all four accounts going back to June 2013, which is six years from when 
Miss T complained to Intrum. Based on what Ive seen, I can see that there were several 
occasions where Miss Ts payments werent allocated by Intrum to the right account.
Where payments have been allocated to the wrong account, Id expect the financial 
business to move the payments to the correct accounts and provide the customer with the 
updated balances.
Because payments had been allocated to the wrong accounts, this means that it appeared 
Miss T had paid more than she needed to on some of her accounts and less than she 
should have on others. Intrum say this is what caused the overpayment letter to be issued 
to Miss T in May 2020. And, having reviewed the payment history for that account, I can 
see that at the time this letter was sent, Miss Ts account that this letter refers to was in 
credit by about £13.
As Miss T had other outstanding accounts with Intrum, any credit balances (including the
£13) were moved to her other accounts and the balances reduced accordingly. I dont think 
this is unreasonable in the circumstances of Miss Ts case as this was a fair way of 
resolving the misallocated payments. And the payments had been made to Intrum by 
Miss T with the intention of repaying what she owed, they just ended up in the wrong place 
initially.
Im satisfied the amounts Intrum has reallocated covers the misallocated payments 
between June 2013 and June 2019. Im aware that Intrum found misallocated payments 
dating further back than this, but I can only consider the payments made in the last six 
years.
Overall, taking into account the total amount owed on all four accounts  on balance, I 
dont think Miss T has overpaid. I say this in part because Miss T acknowledges in her 
letter of June 2019 that she thinks the outstanding balance should be about £600. And, 
after the reconciliation of the misallocated payments, Intrum said Miss Ts remaining 
balance was a little less than that, at about £500. So, I think Miss T was correct about the 
balance of the account Intrum wrote to her about in June 2019 having a lower balance.
Miss T was also unhappy with how long it took Intrum to look into accounts and locate the 
missing payments. I agree that it took a long time and that Intrum shouldve been able to 
spot the misallocated payments much sooner. I can also appreciate this must have been
frustrating for Miss T.
Having reconciled all the accounts Miss T had with them, Intrum decided to write off the 
remaining amount of about £500 and they now consider all of Miss Ts accounts closed. 
While I know Miss T will be disappointed, I havent found any evidence that on balance, 
shes paid more to Intrum than she was supposed to between June 2013 and June 2019. 
And, as Intrum have agreed not to pursue her for the balance that was outstanding on her 
account  I find that fair and reasonable in recognition of the fact that they had misallocated 
some of her payments and the time it took them to resolve this.Responses to my provisional decision
Miss T responded to say she accepted my decision. 
Intrum confirmed they had received my provisional decision but did not add any further 
comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss T accepted my decision and Intrum didnt add anything further for me to consider, I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman