DRN-3156488
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt given them a refund of the 
premium they paid for their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H bought a single trip travel insurance policy on 6 August 2019 to cover a trip 
between 23 June and 6 July 2020. The insurer was Great Lakes. Mr and Mrs H paid a total 
of £482.90 for the policy, and it included cover for some medical conditions, as well as travel 
disruption cover. 
Mr and Mrs Hs trip was cancelled by the operator on 1 May 2020 but they were able to 
change the trip dates to June 2022. Mr and Mrs H got in touch with Great Lakes and asked 
to move their policy dates to cover the rearranged trip.
Great Lakes said Mr and Mrs H could only move the single trip dates to within 18 months of 
the original purchase date. So, it wasnt willing to move these to June 2022, as this was 
more than 18 months since the policy was bought. Alternatively, Great Lakes offered Mr and 
Mrs H a pro-rata voucher refund which is valid for 36 months, for £67.16.
Mr and Mrs H didnt think the amount of the voucher was fair, or in line with what other 
insurers were offering their customers during the Covid-19 global pandemic.
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. The investigator also explained that it is a fundamental 
principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a 
time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to 
keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also 
explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be 
performed because cover under the policy started on 6 August 2019 and the policy covered 
various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
He thought that a pro-rata refund, as a voucher, was fair and reasonable. Our investigator 
just didnt agree with how Great Lakes has originally calculated the refund, so he asked it to 
update it.
Following our investigators view, Great Lakes recalculated the pro-rata amount as £96.29. 
This included a refund for the travel disruption cover, and it was calculated from the point the 
trip was cancelled. Great Lakes has also confirmed the voucher can be transferred to a 
relative or a friend (but it cant be sold on), and it can be used to purchase any new policy, 
including a single trip or an annual one.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with our investigators findings. They say Great Lakes should offer 
to refund at least half of the premium they paid. Or if this wasnt possible, Mr and Mrs H want 
Great Lakes to issue the refund in cash. They say they wont arrange insurance through 
Great Lakes again.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this complaint. 
The policy terms and conditions say:
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions.
I think the offer Great Lakes has made is fair and reasonable because:
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund.
As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance says that theres no refund for 
cancellations after the 14 day cooling off period.
I dont think Great Lakes needed to agree to move the policy dates to cover Mr and 
Mrs Hs rearranged trip. It had offered to do this if the trip was within 18 months of the 
original policy purchase date  but Mr and Mrs Hs trip wasnt.
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. Mr and Mrs H were covered from 6 August 2019 for a number of listed events 
insured under the policy and I dont think theyve been treated unfairly. In the 
circumstances of this complaint, I think Great Lakes offer of pro-rata refund from the 
date the trip was cancelled is fair and reasonable.
I think a voucher is fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of this 
complaint because its valid for 36 months, it can be gifted to a third party, and it can 
be used to buy any policy. So, I dont think the terms of the voucher are so restrictive 
that it would be unreasonable for Mr and Mrs H to accept it. I also havent seen 
anything to suggest that there are any exceptional circumstances that apply to 
Mr and Mrs H.
Putting things right
Great Lakes should issue the updated pro-rata voucher to Mr and Mrs H, if it hasnt already 
done so.My final decision
Its my decision that the offer Great Lakes Insurance SE has made is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to put things right as 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman