DRN-3569441
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy Telefonica Seguros y Reaseguros Compania Aseguradora S.A.U. 
(Telefonica) wont replace her mobile phone after she tried to make a claim under her mobile 
phone insurance policy.
What happened
Miss Rs phone wouldnt turn on, so she contacted Telefonica to make a claim under her 
mobile phone insurance policy. Telefonica arranged for their courier to pick up the phone so 
it could be taken in for assessment and repair or replacement.
The courier says they attempted to pick up the phone as scheduled but were told there was 
no item to pick up. Miss R says they failed to turn up.
Miss R arranged another collection a few days later. The courier says again they were told 
there was no item to pick up. However, Miss R says a relative gave the courier her phone.
Several weeks later Miss R contacted Telefonica for an update on her claim. They said the 
phone hadnt been received. As Miss R said the courier had picked it up, Telefonica carried 
out investigations, including with the courier, and the repair centre. But there were no 
records of the phone being collected or received. Telefonica refused to replace Miss Rs 
phone.
Miss R complained to Telefonica, and they asked Miss R for any evidence or proof of 
collection. As she couldnt provide anything, their decision not to replace the phone 
remained the same. 
However, Telefonica apologised for how long things had taken and that theyd directed 
Miss R to the courier, when theyd already carried out enquiries with them. Telefonica 
offered £75 compensation for the overall service Miss R received.
As Miss R remained unhappy, she approached this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Miss R and the courier had conflicting 
versions of what happened. And the records from the courier showed that they were twice 
unable to collect the phone. She said that the claim was dependent on the phone being 
received by Telefonica, and there was no evidence to support that it was received.
The investigator recognised that Telefonica had offered £75 compensation for the service 
Miss R had received and she thought that was fair in the circumstances. And in the absence 
of any evidence supporting the phone had been collected or received by Telefonica, she 
didnt recommend they do anything further.
Miss R didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Miss R made a claim to Telefonica when her phone wouldnt turn on, collection of the 
device was arranged. Miss R says the courier didnt turn up, whereas the timestamp logs 
from the courier show they were told there was nothing to collect when they arrived.
Miss R arranged another collection with the courier several days later. Miss R says the 
handset was given to the courier by her relative. In contrast, the courier logs again show 
they were told there was nothing to collect when they visited. The times Miss R said the 
courier collected the phone also do not correspond with the logs or timestamps from the 
courier for that day.
So, there are two conflicting versions of what happened. I need to decide, on balance, 
whether Telefonica has acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances of the case by 
not replacing Miss Rs phone.
When Miss R raised her concerns with Telefonica, they investigated with the courier 
company  Ive referred to the logs they provided above and what they show. And Telefonica 
also checked (more than once and on different dates) whether the device had been received 
by their repair centre, but they confirmed it hadnt been received.
Whilst I cant say for certain whether the device was or wasnt collected by the courier, Im 
satisfied Telefonica has carried out a reasonable and sufficient investigation into what 
happened. And based on the evidence Ive seen, there is nothing to show the phone was 
collected, and/or received by the courier or Telefonica. 
As a claim under the policy is dependent on the phone being returned to, and assessed by, 
Telefonica, and there is nothing to show theyve received it, I dont think theyve acted 
unreasonably by declining the claim and not replacing Miss Rs phone.
Telefonica accept the investigation took longer than it shouldve, and that they shouldnt 
have directed Miss R to the courier, when theyd already investigated things with them. So, 
Telefonica offered Miss R £75 compensation for the overall service she has received. 
Having considered everything, I think thats fair in the circumstances, so Im not going to ask 
Telefonica to do any more.
My final decision
Telefonica Seguros y Reaseguros Compania Aseguradora S.A.U. has already made an offer 
to pay £75 to settle the complaint and I think that offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Telefonica Seguros y Reaseguros Compania Aseguradora S.A.U. 
should pay the £75 compensation offered, if it hasnt already done so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman