DRN-2403780
The complaint
Mr B on behalf of his wife complains that ALD Automotive Limited settled a parking fine on a 
car she leases from it under a contract hire agreement without giving her the opportunity to 
appeal it.
What happened
Mrs B had a car on a Personal Contract Hire Plan (PCP) with Kia Contract Hire who also 
trade as ALD. As ALD were the registered owners of this car, a parking ticket (PCN), issued 
on 1 December 2019, was sent to ALD. ALD received this on 11 December.
The PCN provided an opportunity for the driver to be nominated instead of the registered 
owner. On 23 December ALD completed the PCN with Mrs Bs details and returned it to the 
parking company so it could contact her direct. At the same time ALD sent a copy of the 
PCN to Mrs B with a letter explaining what it had done and saying that the parking company 
should now be in contact with Mrs B direct.
Mrs B says she heard nothing from the parking company or ALD until ALD contacted her in 
February 2020 to say it had settled the parking fine to avoid it escalating. ALD included an 
invoice for £102 made up of a reduced parking fine of £60 plus a £42 admin fee.
Mrs B feels this is unfair. She says she assumed from ALDs letter of 23 December that the 
parking company was going to re-issue the parking ticket to Mrs B. She hadnt heard from P 
or ALD until she got ALDs letter asking for payment. She felt ALD should have contacted 
her before settling the PCN because, having made the payment she was now unable to 
appeal.
Mrs B felt ALD was responsible for the fact shed lost the opportunity to appeal and said it 
should now cancel its invoice.
ALD said the PCN had been sent to it as it was the registered owner of the car but it had 
completed the PCN with Mrs Bs details so the parking company could deal with her direct. 
The parking company had then asked for a copy of the PCP agreement which it had sent on 
31 December. It understood from this that the parking company would now contact Mrs B 
but it had also sent her a copy of the PCN which gave all the details of the incident and the 
contact details for the parking operator.
It hadnt heard anything more until it received the letter of 17 January which threatened court 
action if the fine wasnt paid. ALD said its policy was to avoid such fines escalating so it had 
settled the fine in line with this policy. It said it didnt have the resource to contact every 
customer before doing so but noted that, although it had paid the higher parking fine of £144, 
it had only invoiced Mrs B the reduced amount of £60. It felt this was fair.
ALD noted that clause 4.1(b) and 4.2 of Mrs Bs hire agreement expressly stated that the 
customer would indemnify ALD for fines fees or penalties, including parking fines and that 
ALD was entitled to apply a reasonable administration fee for dealing with such matters.  
ALD didnt agree it had acted unfairly or agree to cancel its invoice but said that if Mrs B was 
able to appeal the fine, it would provide a credit note against it.
In October 2020 our investigator issued an initial view that upheld the complaint but after 
receiving new information from ALD, he issued a second view in November that came to a 
different view. He said that the PCN notice sent to Mrs B showed that she had until 7 
January to lodge an appeal. ALD had sent the notice to her on 23 December so he felt that 
shed had sufficient time to contact the parking operator before the expiry of the appeal 
period. The correspondence showed that it wasnt until 29 February that Mrs B had told ALD 
that she intended to appeal and that the appeal wasnt lodged with the parking company untl 
16 March.
When the parking company went back to ALD in January, he felt ALD had been reasonable 
in deciding to settle the fine rather than risk court proceedings. He felt ALD had taken 
account of the confusion over the communication by the parking operator by only invoicing 
Mrs B for the reduced fee. In the circumstances he couldnt agree that ALD had made a 
mistake in the way it had dealt with this so he wouldnt be asking it to do anything more.
Mr B on behalf of Mrs B disagreed and said, in summary:
If ALD had told them that the parking operator wouldnt deal with Mrs B then they 
could have taken further action. ALD hadnt done so and by the time it was aware of 
this, the fine had been paid. As a result, Mrs B had lost the right to appeal as this 
ended on payment.
They felt ALD didnt have the resource to deal with these matters properly.
The only letter it had seen telling the parking operator to deal with Mrs B was dated 
the 4 March which was after the appeal period had ended so they had no proof that 
ALD had provided this information before this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that Mrs B would like ALD to waive its invoice but in order to do this Id need to be 
satisfied it had made a mistake in the way it had dealt with this ticket 
I realise this isnt the decision Mrs B is hoping for but, having reviewed the information 
available, I dont consider it has so I wont be asking ALD to do anything more as Ill now 
explain.
I can see Mrs B says the parking ticket was wrongly issued as a result of a mistake in her 
employers vehicle identification system. I can understand why she feels so strongly that the 
ticket is unfair but in my decision I can only look at the actions of ALD and not of any other 
parties involved in this transaction.
Ive seen that ALD received the PCN on 11 December and sent a copy of it to Mrs B on 23 
December. Mrs B says ALD could have sent it on sooner and I agree that, by the time Mrs B 
received this, she would have lost her right to pay the reduced fee but she would still have 
had almost two weeks to lodge an appeal if she wished to do so. Its also the case that ALD 
ultimately only charged her the reduced penalty even though it had to pay the higher 
amount. In the circumstances I dont consider that the small delay in forwarding this 
document to Mrs B has caused any actual detriment.The letter from ALD on 23 December was as follows: 
Please find attached a copy of a parking charge notice we have received in relation to your vehicle, 
we have made representation to the Parking Operator advising them that the vehicle is in your 
possession.
The purpose of this letter is to give you advance notice that we have made a representation to the 
Parking Operator thus allowing you time to review the details. The Parking Operator should now 
reissue the parking charge notice to you for payment or appeal.
If you do have any queries relating to this fine please contact the Parking Authority whose details are 
on the reverse of this letter.
Mrs B says she understood from this that she should wait to hear from the parking operator. 
I can understand why she took that view but the letter doesnt say emphatically that this will 
happen, only that it should. However ALD also provided a copy of the actual ticket with this 
letter so that Mrs B could see the appeal deadline and had all the necessary information 
regarding an appeal. 
The ticket states that the expiry date for any appeal was 28 days after the date after which 
this notice was deemed to be received. It was received on 11 December so the last date for 
any appeal would have been 7 January. I havent seen any explanation as to why the 
parking operator didnt contact Mrs B direct but, even without this, Im satisfied that Mrs B 
had sufficient information to allow her to contact the parking operator if she was concerned 
that the appeal end date was nearing without any contact being made. I realise this would 
have been a somewhat confusing situation for Mrs B at this time but, on that basis, I cant 
agree that ALD was responsible for the fact Mrs B didnt appeal within the time allowed.
Mrs B has said that she feels ALD should have contacted her before settling the fine in 
January 2020 and, if it had, she could have appealed at that time. I can understand why Mrs 
B would want to know what was happening but the letter to ALD from the debt collection 
agency was sent on 17 January. This was outside of the appeal period so even if ALD had 
contacted Mrs B at that time its clear that this would have made no difference to the liability 
for the fine.
Ive also taken into account the terms of the contract hire agreement between Mrs B and 
ALD that states at clause 4.1(b) that the consumer is required to indemnify ALD against:
any fines, fees, charges, invoices or other penalties resulting from use of the vehicle contrary 
to any applicable laws; motoring offences or violation from traffic or parking regulations or 
restrictions and/or congestion charging, whether issued by public or private entities or other 
use of the vehicle contrary to any applicable law; 
I consider that the parking penalty would come under this term and that, on that basis, ALD 
was entitled to invoice Mrs B for both the cost of the penalty and for its administrative costs. 
However, I note that, although ALD had to pay the higher penalty of £144, it has only 
invoiced Mrs B the reduced penalty of £60 which I consider to be fair taking into account the 
time it took initially to forward the PCN to Mrs B.
Its also the case that once the appeal period had expired, which it had by 17 January, then 
ALD would have had to pay the penalty or face the possibility of further legal action. This 
would have incurred significantly higher costs so I dont feel it was unreasonable of ALD to 
decide to settle the issue by paying the fine at this point.
Ive seen Mrs B feels ALD should have been in contact with her to let her know the parking 
operator wasnt going to contact her direct. She says that, if it had, she could have provided the information necessary to allow ALD to lodge an appeal. ALD has said it doesnt make 
individual appeals and I think that understandable both because the cost of doing so would 
need to be passed to customer and may well exceed the cost of the penalty and because of 
the resource it would require. It does however provide the customer with the information to 
allow them to appeal as it did in this case.
I realise Mrs B may be disappointed by my decision but, for the reasons set out above, I 
wont be asking ALD to do anything more with regard to this complaint.
It may be that Mrs B can pursue her appeal with another agency if she feels the ticket was 
wrongly issued due to circumstances outside of her control but I would need to advise Mrs B 
to take independent advice on that.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman