DRN-4244106
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat (Cashfloat) couldnt 
afford the loan repayments because he had a poor credit score and already had several 
loans outstanding. 
What happened
Mr M was advanced one loan of £500 on 17 March 2023. He was due to make five monthly 
repayments of £133.45 followed by a final payment of £133.35. According to the most recent 
document from Cashfloat  as of May 2023 and outstanding balance remained due.
Cashfloat wrote to Mr M in its final response letter and explained why it didnt consider an 
error had been made by providing the loan. Unhappy with this response, Mr M referred the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an investigator, and he didnt uphold it because he 
concluded that Cashfloat had carried out proportionate checks - which showed the loan to be 
affordable for Mr M. 
Mr M didnt agree with the findings saying had Cashfloat looked at the application correctly it 
wouldve seen rising debts and recent loan applications. Mr M also provided details of the 
active loans he had at the time. 
No agreement could be reached and so the complaint has been passed to me to resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used that to 
help me decide this complaint.
When Mr M applied for the loan, Cashfloat had to assess the lending to check if Mr M could 
afford to pay back the amount hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in 
a way which was proportionate to the circumstances. Cashfloats checks could have taken 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the 
repayments, and Mr Ms income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Cashfloat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors include:
Mr M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr M. The investigator didnt think this 
applied to Mr Ms complaint and I would agree as there was only one loan. 
Cashfloat was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr M was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ms complaint. 
Before the loan was approved, Cashfloat took details of Mr Ms income and expenditure. 
Cashfloat recorded that Mr M worked full time and received a monthly salary of £3,173. 
Cashfloat says it independently checked Mr Ms income and it received a positive result 
and it matched the average for the industry Mr M works in. Cashfloat says there wasnt any 
indication from this check to suggest it needed to go further.
Cashfloat also made enquiries about his living costs, which Mr M declared to be £1,925 per 
month. Its worth noting here that Cashfloat says that it assessed Mr Ms monthly 
expenditure using what it calls trigger values  taken from a well-known debt charity and 
these values take account of an applicants job, location, homeowner status to name a few 
factors. 
Having used these trigger values, it estimated Mr Ms monthly outgoings were, at a 
maximum, likely to be £2,215 and, again to err on the side of caution, to that it added a 
further buffer of £300  these were the figures used for Cashfloats affordability assessment. 
Even using the larger monthly outgoings along with the buffer, there was still sufficient 
disposable income for Mr M to be able to afford the repayments for the loan. 
It doesnt appear that Cashfloat carried out a credit search before the loan was approved. 
But there was no regulatory requirement to do one. So, the fact no credit search was likely 
conducted isnt a reason to solely uphold the complaint. This also means that Cashfloat 
wasnt aware of the number of loans that Mr M has told us about. 
The overall lending pattern such as the amount that was advanced wouldnt, in my view, 
have triggered further checks from Cashfloat or led it to conclude that the loan was 
unsustainable. 
Based on the checks that Cashfloat did do, Im satisfied these were proportionate to the 
circumstances of the loan. I say this because this was Mr Ms first loan with Cashfloat, and 
given the amount borrowed and the term of it, what it discovered through its checks - 
wouldnt, in my view have led it to be believe that it needed to go further. 
So, although Mr M has helpfully provided copy bank statements for the months before the 
loan was approved, in this case, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Cashfloat to 
have considered them. Taking account of the lending relationship I think it was reasonable for Cashfloat to have 
relied on the information Mr M provided to it and the results of its own checks. There also 
wasnt anything to suggest that Mr M was having either current financial difficulties or to 
indicate the loan repayment would be unsustainable for him. 
I therefore do no not uphold Mr Ms complaint and it seems an outstanding balance may still 
be due. If there is still an outstanding balance I would remind Cashfloat of its regulatory 
obligation to treat Mr M fairly and with forbearance if necessary. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman