DRN-1717151
 
The complaint
Miss R complains that Stagemount Limited (trading as Quidmarket) gave her a loan she 
couldn't afford to pay back.
What happened
Miss R took out one instalment loan with Quidmarket on the 18 October 2019 for £300. It 
was due to be repaid in 6 instalments, the highest instalment was £99.99. Miss R said that 
she was struggling financially at the time she took out the loan and her credit file would've 
shown the difficulties she was in. Miss R wasn't able to repay what she had borrowed and 
there is a balance outstanding.
Our adjudicator didn't recommend that Miss R's complaint was upheld. He thought that the 
checks Quidmarket carried out before lending were enough. He didn't think 
Quidmarket needed to do any more or verify what Miss R was saying given her borrowing 
pattern.
Miss R didn't agree and replied with evidence that there was a default and an arrangement 
to pay showing on her credit file. She said that checks would've shown the financial difficulty 
she was in. She asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Quidmarket needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss R 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Quidmarket should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Quidmarket was required to establish 
whether Miss R could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to 
borrow to meet the repayments.
So it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Rs complaint. 
Quidmarket has told us about the checks it did before lending to Miss R. It asked Miss R for 
details of her income and normal expenditure. Quidmarket verified Miss R's income by 
asking to see her payslips. And Quidmarket carried out checks on Miss Rs credit file.
Looking at the payslips I can see that Miss R has a basic salary but that she regularly works 
overtime. Her average monthly pay at the time she applied for the loan was around £1250 
looking at her taxable pay for the year to date. Miss R said her outgoings were £400. The 
loan repayments of £99.99 looked affordable on the figures Miss R gave to Quidmarket.
I have also looked at the credit check carried out by Quidmarket and the results don't show 
anything that should've caused it to carry out further checks. Specifically, it doesn't show any 
defaults. 
I don't disagree that Miss R had these entries but generally, the information available to her 
on her own credit report is likely to be different to the information available to a lender. A 
lender may not see the most up to date information and not all accounts are reported to all 
credit reference agencies. So this may explain why Quidmarket's checks didn't show these 
entries.
I agree with the adjudicator that the checks Quidmarket did before agreeing to lend to Miss 
R were reasonable and proportionate based on the information Miss R gave and the 
information in the credit check. The amount that Miss R needed to repay looked affordable, 
even taking into account the extra credit outgoings Miss R hadn't mentioned but were 
revealed on Quidmarket's credit check. Looking at the information Miss R gave, what was 
apparent from Quidmarket's checks and Miss R's borrowing history I don't think 
Quidmarket needed to do any more and so it wasn't wrong to lend. I don't think it was 
proportionate at this stage for Quidmarket to ask for the level of detail that would have 
showed the difficulties Miss R was in. I don't doubt that Miss R was in difficulties and that this was a difficult time for her. If the 
lending with Quidmarket had continued I might have expected further checking of her 
circumstances. But Miss R didn't tell Quidmarket she was in difficulties, for reasons which I 
fully understand, and the checks carried out didn't reveal these issues either. As I have said, 
because these checks were proportionate in these particular circumstances, I can't say it 
was wrong for Quidmarket to lend.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman