DRN-2443121
The complaint
Mr A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund a disputed withdrawal he 
says he didnt make. And hed like a refund. 
What happened
Mr A says that on the 8 June 2019 he used a cash machine operated by a bank Ill call 
Bank H, in an attempt to withdraw £20. He entered his card, thinks he may have entered his 
PIN then selected the amount of money he wanted - £20  before two members of the public 
approached him to advise that the ATM machine was faulty. Mr A explains that at this point 
one of the third parties pressed the cancel button and his card was returned. At this time he 
recalls seeing a transaction cancelled message on the screen. He then waited for around 30 
seconds but no cash was dispensed.
Mr A became suspicious so went into a bank branch opened by Bank H. But they werent 
able to assist him. So he visited his local NatWest branch and phoned the fraud department. 
And he asked for his card to be blocked at this point. 
On returning home Mr A checked his account balance and noticed £500 had been debited. 
He believes that his card might have been cloned and the £500 withdrawal was carried out 
whilst he was in the branch. So he called NatWest to complain. 
NatWest looked into Mr As complaint, but concluded that Mr A most likely authorised the 
disputed transaction. They said that there was only evidence of Mr As card being used in 
one ATM machine around that time. And Mr A must have entered his PIN. For a fraudster to 
have carried out the transaction, without Mr A noticing, theyd have needed to go through 
three screens and how did they know Mr A had a £500 limit. But NatWest did offer Mr A £50 
compensation for failings at the branch when Mr A requested to cancel his card. 
Mr A didnt accept NatWests response so complained to our service.
 
One of our investigators looked into Mr As complaint but didnt uphold it. They concluded 
that on balance Mr A most likely authorised the disputed transaction, because it wasnt 
possible a fraudster could have carried out the transaction without Mr As consent when he 
didnt lose his debit card. 
Mr A didnt accept our investigators conclusion. And its been passed to me to decide. 
On reviewing Mr As complaint I came to a similar conclusion to our investigator, but I 
expanded on the reasoning. 
In doing so I wrote to NatWest and Mr A giving them until the 4 December 2020 to accept 
my thoughts or provide further evidence. I extended this deadline to the 18 December 2020. 
NatWest havent responded to my Provisional Decision, but Mr A replied to say he didnt 
accept my conclusions and to reiterate that he didnt authorise the transaction. But he didnt 
provide any further evidence for me to consider. 
As Mr A didnt accept my Provisional Decision Ive reviewed my conclusions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And in doing so Ive not changed my thoughts from my Provisional Decision. Ill explain why 
below. 
In my Provisional Decision I said:
Generally, NatWest can hold Mr A liable for the disputed withdrawal if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made or authorised it himself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr As genuine card and PIN were used 
to make the disputed transaction. But the Payment Service Regulations 2017 say that is not, 
on its own, enough to enable NatWest to hold him liable. So I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr A consented to the 
withdrawal being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for NatWest to conclude that Mr A 
authorised the transaction. 
Mr A explains that he went to a cash point in an attempt to withdraw £20, put his card in the 
machine entered his PIN before a member of the public pressed cancel on the ATM. Hes 
indicated that he didnt select £500 on the cash machine and either the member of the public 
did this or his card was cloned. As our investigator explained our service hasnt seen 
confirmed examples of cards with a CHIP being cloned. Therefore Ive ruled out this 
possibility. 
Ive also noted the £500 withdrawal occurred at the time Mr A says he visited the cash point. 
Mr A explains he may have entered his PIN  and I think this is the most likely explanation. 
Without Mr A entering his PIN at this point, Im unable to see how the ATM transaction could 
have been processed. Therefore I think its possible either Mr A entered his PIN and 
selected £500 or Mr A was distracted and the third party selected £500 after Mr A entered 
his PIN. Im afraid that either way, once Mr A entered his PIN he consented to the 
transaction taking place  whether it was a withdrawal for £20 or one for £500  and the 
transaction was therefore authorised. 
Ive gone on to consider if NatWest have provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate there 
wasnt a fault with the machine and Mr As withdrawal dispensed. The cash machine Mr A 
used was owned by another bank, Ill call Bank H, and therefore the evidence has been 
supplied by them. Ive seen a copy of the journal roll from Bank H which evidences that 
Mr As cash was dispensed in the form of  23 x £20 notes and 4 x £10 notes totalling £500. It 
also evidences that there werent any errors with Mr As transaction or a record of the 
transaction being cancelled  but this isnt the case. Ive also seen that Mr As transaction 
only took 43 seconds to complete from when the transaction started, the money was 
requested and then dispensed. If the events happened as Mr A described Id have expected 
the transaction to take much longer than this. 
Ive also asked NatWest for proof that Mr As cash wasnt retained with the ATMs purge bin, 
which the bank explains theyve requested from Bank H. Unfortunately theyve not received 
this evidence. However, even without this evidence based on the time the ATM took to dispense Mr As funds and there being no indications of an error or cancellation message Im 
satisfied on balance it was likely dispensed. 
I realise this will be disappointing to Mr A but I think its more likely than not he authorised 
the disputed transaction and his funds were dispensed. Im only able to hold NatWest liable 
for the disputed transaction if it was either unauthorised or Im satisfied the cash didnt 
dispense. And Im afraid in this case I think its more likely on balance Mr A was distracted 
by the member of the public who managed to obtain his £500  but because Mr A authorised 
the transaction and theres no evidence of an ATM machine error I cant hold NatWest liable 
for this. 
Mr A responded to my initial thoughts by saying he didnt accept my Provisional Decision 
and he hadnt authorised the disputed transaction. However he didnt provide any new 
evidence. Therefore I see no reason to change the outcome I reached in my Provisional 
Decision. 
Overall, for the reasons Ive outlined above Im satisfied that Mr A authorised the disputed 
transaction and his funds were dispensed. Therefore I wont be asking NatWest to do 
anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman