DRN-3851838
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about the service provided by Metro Bank PLC when they were 
trying to withdraw funds from their savings account. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C opened a fixed term account in June 2020. 
In 2021, Mr C contacted Metro Bank to find out how he could transfer the money out of the 
account after it matured in June 2021. Over a series of phone calls, Mr C spoke to a number 
of people about how to access the account but was given different information about this. In 
the end, Mr and Mrs C were both required to attend a branch in order to transfer the money.
Metro considered Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Initially they offered £50 in relation to some 
information given but later increased their offer to a total of £200 and offered their apologies 
for the poor service theyd provided to Mr and Mrs C. 
Mr and Mrs C werent happy with this and our Investigator considered their complaint. He 
said, in summary, that Metro had accepted Mr and Mrs C had received a poor service and 
that the offer of a total of £200 was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. They said they wanted further compensation and an apology.
The complaint was passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision. Ive set out my provisional findings again below and they 
form part of this decision.
Provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
When Mr and Mrs C first opened their account in 2020, both account holders needed to 
register and log in to internet banking. It seems Mr C had registered for internet banking but 
Mrs C did not. Because of this a restriction was placed on the account which meant 
transactions out of the account could only be carried out with both account holders present.
 
Metro has said they didnt make it clear enough when Mr and Mrs C first opened the account 
what Mr and Mrs C would need to do to be able to make transactions out of the account. 
Metro Bank also accepts that they did not give Mr C clear and accurate information during 
the phone calls he had with them. 
Ive listened to all the calls Mr and Mrs C had with the bank. And I can see we provided them 
to Mr C so Im not going to repeat their content here. Metro shouldve told Mr C when he first 
contacted them that there was a restriction on the account and what he would need to do to 
remove this, so the money could be withdrawn. But they didnt do this straight away and then 
later provided conflicting information over several calls so it wasnt clear to Mr C. So, I agree 
Metro didnt explain clearly enough what was needed in order for Mr and Mrs C to transfer 
their money out of the account.
Mr C doesnt think Metro were entitled to place a restriction on the account at all. He says 
this because the opening of a fixed term deposit account isnt listed as a reason the account 
can be blocked under the terms and conditions of the account. However, Metro did this as 
part of the account opening process rather than during the life of the account. But since 
Metro have accepted they didnt make things clear at the outset and then handled Mr Cs 
calls with them poorly, I dont think this makes a difference to the overall outcome of the 
complaint.
 
During telephone calls, Metro assured Mr C all the information needed to set up online 
banking for Mrs C was sent to their address. But Mr C says this never arrived. Metro have 
provided evidence that the documentation was sent out to Mrs C on the first occasion she 
asked for it, but I cant see the second letter being issued in Metros contact notes. So I think 
its possible it was only sent out once, when Mrs C asked for it twice. 
As the documents werent received, Mr and Mrs C were forced to travel over an hour to a 
Metro branch and they were particularly concerned about having to do so during the ongoing 
COVID-19 pandemic. Then, while in branch, it took two hours for the staff to complete the 
security process and then arrange the transfer. Again, Metro accepts Mr and Mrs Cs 
experience in the branch was poor and the visit shouldnt have taken two hours.
 
Overall, Ive found the service Mr and Mrs C received was poor and I dont think £200 fairly 
reflects the distress and inconvenience caused. I say this because Mr C had to make a 
series of phone calls, during which incomplete or incorrect information was given and was, 
understandably, frustrated by Metros poor communication. Mr and Mrs C were then forced 
to make a long trip to their nearest branch over an hours drive from their home  which 
wouldnt have been necessary had Metro been clear from the outset about the requirements 
for both account holders to be registered with online banking. And then their visit to the 
branch was unnecessarily long because of technical difficulties. I also think Mr and Mrs Cs 
concern was likely worsened by the amount of money in the account  more than £150,000 
 which they were having trouble withdrawing. So I intend to say Metro should pay Mr and 
Mrs C an additional £150 in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
I also intend to say Metro should pay a further £50 to cover Mr and Mrs Cs costs in having 
to travel to the branch  bringing the total compensation to £400. 
I know Mr and Mrs C are keen to receive apologies from Metro. I can see Metro offered their 
apologies to them, albeit via our service, and our Investigator explained this to them. So Im 
satisfied Metro has apologised for the problems theyve experienced. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs C responded to say they were pleased that further compensation had been 
awarded. 
Metro responded to say they accepted my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As both parties have indicated their agreement to my provisional findings, I see no reason to 
depart from them. 
So my decision remains Metro should pay Mr and Mrs C a total of £400 in recognition of the 
distress, inconvenience and costs incurred as a result of Metros poor service. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
To put things right, I require Metro Bank PLC to pay Mr and Mrs C a total of £400. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman