DRN-3487917
The complaint
Mr A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd failed to refund a transaction he didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr A transferred funds into his Monzo account for a purchase he was due to make. Within a 
few minutes of receiving the funds, he saw a message from Monzo that a debit card 
payment had been made to a merchant Ill refer to as C for an online transaction. Mr A didnt 
recognise making this payment and transferred the remaining balance to a different account 
in order to protect it from further fraud. 
Mr A contacted Monzo about the disputed transaction and told them he hadnt authorised it. 
Monzo asked Mr A about his card and personal identification number (PIN) and whether 
anyone else knew them. Mr A confirmed that he still had his card in his possession and that 
no one else had access to it or knew the PIN.
Monzo told Mr A to contact C about the payment and raise it with them. Mr A was told by C 
that it was Monzos responsibility to raise it and he was sent back to Monzo. 
Monzo looked into the circumstances surrounding the payment and decided not to refund Mr 
A. They believed hed authorised the payment and relied on the timing of the incoming 
transfer that facilitated the disputed transaction to support their case. They also believed the 
transfer of the remaining funds was suspicious. Monzos decision was made the same day it 
was reported to them by Mr A. 
Monzo decided not to raise a chargeback on Mr As behalf because they believed hed 
authorised it. Mr A complained about how Monzo had handled the matter. Monzo again 
looked into the situation and didnt change their opinion. Mr A remained unhappy with Monzo 
and brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman for an independent review. When Mr 
A first registered the complaint he gave two addresses, his current one and his previous 
address where the Monzo account was registered to. 
It was looked into by one of our investigators who thought it was reasonable for Monzo to 
hold Mr A liable for the transaction because the evidence showed it was Mr A using his 
mobile app when the payment was made from it, including reference to IP address data.
 Note: IP addresses are a means to identify physical locations that online transactions are 
connected to and can be the actual physical location or other locations connected to the 
provider of the data services.
Also, that the timing of the incoming payment and the outgoing disputed transaction was 
suggestive that it was unlikely this information was known to anyone other than Mr A. Our 
investigator also thought the movement of the remaining funds was linked to Mr A 
authorising the transaction. They didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr A disagreed with the outcome and asked for a further review, re-iterating that he hadnt 
authorised it and the transfer of the remaining funds was a reaction to a fraudulent payment 
on his account to protect his funds. Mr A said his device wasnt used for the transaction. 
Mr A believed the facts werent understood and the evidence supports his assertion that he 
didnt authorise the transaction. Thats because it was an online transaction that didnt need 
his physical card or his device, which he still had in his possession. 
I issued a provisional decision outlining my initial thoughts which said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Monzo believed Mr A was responsible for authorising the payment. They came to this 
conclusion within a few hours of receiving Mr As notification about the disputed transaction. 
Essentially, Monzo thought that the incoming payment and the timing of the outgoing 
payment were so close together, that it couldnt be anyone else who made it. 
When Ive examined the circumstances of this complaint, its evident that the payment wasnt 
made using Mr As mobile app on his phone, rather it was made using the card details from 
his debit card. 
What that means here is that any reference to IP address data (referred to in the 
investigators outcome) from the use of Mr As device isnt relevant to whether he carried out 
the transaction or not. Online transactions such as this one needed information from Mr As 
debit card, together with whatever C required to complete the order. 
So, Ive gone on to think about whether Monzo have provided sufficient proof that Mr A 
authorised this payment. The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment 
Service Regulations 2017. The basic position is that Monzo can hold Mr A liable for the 
disputed payment if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made them 
or authorised them. 
Authorisation is made up of two parts. Authentication and consent. Authentication is usually 
referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, Monzo have supplied evidence that 
shows the payment used Mr As debit card details. Im satisfied the evidence shows the 
disputed transaction was authenticated. 
Consent refers to the way in which Monzo and Mr A agreed to operate the account to allow 
Monzo to make payments on Mr As behalf. For example, Monzos terms and conditions set 
out that if a payment is arranged through the use of the debit card details, then Monzo 
accept that the instruction to make the payment is authorised by the account holder. So, 
because Mr As debit card details were entered - Im satisfied that consent was given, and 
the disputed transaction was authorised. But, there are exceptions where it wouldnt be 
appropriate for Monzo to hold Mr A responsible, for example if his card details were used 
without his permission. 
The incoming payment and the outgoing card transaction took place within about five 
minutes of each other, so I can see why Monzo thought this was suggestive that Mr A was 
responsible for the transaction. Thats because it would be difficult to explain how someone
knew the incoming payment would be available in his account, and the disputed payment 
would have likely failed without the receipt of this payment because there werent enough 
funds in the account prior to its receipt. 
Monzo considered that the incoming transfer followed by an outgoing payment was how Mr 
A normally operated his account. Together with the removal of the remaining funds to another account in his name, this was an indication that supported Monzos belief that Mr A 
was responsible for the disputed transaction. 
Mr A explained that he transferred funds in because he was going to purchase an item, so I 
dont think this was in anyway unusual with how his account operated or the reason for the 
incoming payment. Monzo have confirmed that Mr A would have received a payment 
notification on his app when the debit card transaction was put through Cs payment system. 
Mr A said it was this that alerted him to remove his remaining funds to protect them and I 
think this is what Id expect someone to do in a similar situation. By doing this, he reduced 
the risk of losing further funds. 
Mr A doesnt know how anyone could have known about this but has consistently denied it 
was him that made it. Online transactions such as this dont always require much in the way 
of additional information to enable them to be made. The authentication data provided by 
Monzo shows its an online payment made to C, using Mr As card details. Most of the other 
information needed (by C) to process the transaction would have been collected by them. 
Usually thats contact information and address data which is used, partly, to confirm the 
payment details and arrange collection or delivery. 
I dont know what details were collected by C because they wouldnt deal with Mr A and 
Monzo didnt contact them about the transaction. Because the payment was made using Mr 
As debit card, that meant it utilised the Mastercard network to facilitate the payment. 
Payments made using their network are subject to certain rules and procedures. They have 
a separate system to challenge payments called Chargebacks. 
Chargebacks arent a right, so its not something that Mr A can require Monzo to do. 
However, the Financial Ombudsman Service expects a bank to make a chargeback, where 
there is a reasonable prospect of success. Mr A didnt specifically request that Monzo make 
a chargeback on his behalf, nor do I think he needed to. Mastercards system and processes 
are complex and I wouldnt necessarily expect Mr A to know about them. Monzo on the other 
hand are in a position to understand the avenues available to them when dealing with a 
transaction that Mr A disputed. That included making a chargeback request. 
Monzo, in their response, explained that they didnt make a chargeback because they 
believed Mr A had authorised the transaction. Its far from clear if Mr A authorised the 
transaction himself as the details used were obtained from his debit card. I cant know how 
these details were obtained, but theres nothing else apart from the timing of the payment 
that indicates it was Mr A who made the payment. 
Monzos decision not to undertake a chargeback denied them the opportunity to challenge 
the payment on Mr As behalf and understand the other details collected by C. Mastercard 
chargeback rules indicate that a card holder can challenge a payment because they didnt 
authorise it, so I think it was possible for Monzo to make such a challenge to C. 
Chargebacks have strict time limits and unfortunately theyve now expired, so this process is 
no longer available to Monzo. 
I cant know the outcome of any chargeback because I dont know how C would have 
responded. But if Monzo had made one, they would have, at the very least, had more 
information about the transaction. They could then have made a more informed decision
about whether to refund Mr A or not. Because Monzo decided not to mount a chargeback on 
behalf of Mr A when it was an avenue open to them, I think this has resulted in an unfair 
outcome for him. 
Im currently thinking of upholding this complaint and I intend to instruct Monzo to refund the disputed transaction to Mr A, add 8% simple interest from the date of the payment to the 
date its repaid. I also intend to instruct Monzo to pay Mr A £75 for the way in which they 
handled the situation and the inconvenience caused to him.
I invited Mr A and Monzo to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my final decision. Mr A accepted my provisional decision and Monzo 
added: 
 The claim and chargeback were declined because the circumstances were highly 
suspect and theres no way that this payment couldnt have been made by anyone 
else.
 Monzo went on to say that we find the possibility that the customers card details 
were compromised, used only once and used for an amount under the balance 
shows that the customer is complicit.
 Monzo repeated their assertion that the timings were supportive of their case and 
there were no other uses of the card or other devices associated with the account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive already addressed the use of the account by Mr A, and Monzo havent added anything 
that would change my mind about the incoming payment and why Mr A deposited it into his 
account. 
I dont think Monzos assessment of the timings makes any allowance for the possibility that 
Mr As card details were used by anyone else and as Ive already said, the evidence that it 
was him is far from persuasive. 
I understand Monzos assessment of the details including the lack of additional attempts on 
the card or that no other devices were recorded using the account. But whilst these can be 
related to attempts to avoid liability for transactions  Monzo dont appear to have given 
much credence to Mr As attempts to find out the details of the transaction with C. 
Would Mr A approach C to try and get details of the transaction if it was him? Surely hed 
know that if Monzo approached C (as he was told they should do by C), they would obtain 
details about the payment. If that was the case and it looked like it was Mr A who made the 
payment, then wouldnt he realise hed be held liable for it? But, as Ive already mentioned, 
Monzo decided not to pursue a chargeback. 
Monzo believed that because the payment was less than the available balance, it was 
indicative that it was Mr A who made it. I can see why Monzo thought that, but its equally 
arguable that if it was Mr A  then why didnt he utilise more of the available funds in his 
account? Also, its supportive of the position that whoever made the transaction knew 
enough that funds were being transferred but not the actual amount. 
I accept there are some indications that Mr A may have had some knowledge of the 
payment, but the facts also support his stance that it wasnt him, including the movement of 
his remaining funds from the Monzo account once he received the notification about the 
unrecognised payment. I dont think Monzo have provided sufficient evidence to hold him 
liable for the payments. Monzo also didnt mount any Chargeback request and I think this 
has led to an unfair outcome for Mr A  particularly when he tried to obtain the details from C himself but was told that it was Monzos responsibility.
Putting things right
I see no reason to change the outcome set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I 
uphold this complaint. As the disputed transaction was a distance contract and my decision 
is that Mr A cant be held liable for it  Monzo are required to refund it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct Monzo Bank Ltd to: 
 refund the disputed transaction to Mr A, add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
payment to the date its repaid. 
 To pay Mr A £75 for the way in which Monzo handled the situation and the inconvenience 
caused to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman