DRN-2671202
The complaint
Mr P complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has unfairly reduced the final maturity 
value of his endowment policy. He said Aviva misled him when it provided an estimate of the 
final maturity value which was more than what he received. 
What happened
Aviva sent Mr P a letter in April 2020 showing an estimated maturity value of £22,279.35. 
But the maturity value he received a month later was £20,739.55. Mr P was unhappy with 
the reasons Aviva gave for the reduced amount. He wants Aviva to pay him the difference.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said Aviva only provided an 
estimate of the final maturity value and he didnt think it had misled Mr P or treated him 
unfairly. 
Mr P disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He was concerned about how 
much the maturity value had reduced below the April 2020 estimate in such a short space of 
time. And questioned whether the estimate was accurate. If the estimate was accurate, 
Mr P said Aviva shouldve done more to make sure the maturity value was in line with the 
estimate he was given. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr P feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
In April 2020 Aviva sent a letter telling Mr P that it couldnt give a final value of his policy, but 
it could give an estimate. It also added that the final bonus isnt guaranteed. So, although 
Aviva quoted £22,279.35  its not obligated to pay this. 
Mr P is frustrated by the reduced maturity value, and thinks Aviva estimated the value 
incorrectly or hasnt done enough to make sure the estimate was met. Aviva has said that 
the bonus rate was revised after its estimate was sent to Mr P in April 2020. And this 
reduction was in response to market conditions at the time. I note Aviva may not have gone 
into a great amount of detail about all the various factors which affected the bonus rate. But 
as our investigator explained to Mr P, this can depend on several things, such as the cost of 
running the fund, as well the need to smooth bonuses from year to year (where some of the 
profits are held back during good years to boost the profits during the bad years to avoid any 
drastic fluctuations). 
The reality is that bonuses are typically arrived at using a variety of factors and formulae that 
are calculated by the with profit fund managers. And they will decide how much of the funds 
profits are paid as a bonus and how much will be kept in reserve to help with smoothing as 
explained above. But I wouldnt have expected Aviva to have disclosed complex or detailed 
breakdowns of its actuarial calculations to Mr P, as this is commercially sensitive 
information. 
Mr P has questioned the accuracy of the April 2020 estimate. As our investigator explained, 
the estimate was based on previous reviews of final bonus rates. Avivas told me the April 
2020 estimate was based on final bonus rates which were declared in December 2019. It 
said the reason for the difference in the maturity value and the estimate was because of the 
bonus review, which took place at the end of April 2020, due to the exceptional market 
conditions that year. 
And so, whilst I understand Mr Ps disappointment at the difference between the estimate 
and the maturity value over a short period of time, Ive no reason to believe Aviva 
miscalculated either amount. And Im satisfied the difference came about because of the 
specific action Aviva took to reflect the relevant market conditions. Aviva has also confirmed 
that it took the decision to revise the bonus across similar policies to that of Mr Ps to look 
after the interests of all its customers.  
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Aviva hasnt treated Mr P unfairly. So, Im not 
going to ask it to take any further action here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman