DRN-3140669
The complaint
Ms J says Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Ms J bought the policy in 1995 in connection with a Marks & Spencer account card that she 
applied for in store. Allianz Insurance plc has taken responsibility for this complaint, so for 
simplicity Ill just refer to Allianz in the rest of this decision. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Js case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Js complaint because:
I think Allianz made Ms J aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take 
it. I say this because she did tick the box on the account card application form to say 
she wanted the cover. She also signed the same section and added her date of birth. 
So I think Ms J wouldve realised she had a choice about taking the PPI.
Ms J considers the wording on the application form meant Allianz recommended the 
policy to her. But Im not persuaded thats the case. The wording didnt refer to Ms Js 
particular circumstances and wasnt tailored specifically to her, so I dont consider it 
was a recommendation from Allianz. 
Allianz didnt recommend the PPI to Ms J so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for her. But even if it had recommended the policy, I dont think it was unsuitable for 
Ms J. Even though she says she would have received some employer benefits 
similar to the kind the PPI provided, the policy would have paid out in addition to 
those benefits. So I think the policy wouldve been helpful to Ms J if she couldnt 
work.
Its possible the information Allianz gave Ms J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Ms J would have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it.
Ms J has mentioned that she received refunds in connection with PPI she took out on other 
Marks & Spencer products. She says her circumstances were the same in this case, so she 
considers she should also receive a refund in connection with the store card PPI.
But a refund on one product doesnt necessarily mean the PPI was mis-sold on other 
products. Different products have different features, and we therefore review the 
circumstances of each sale individually to determine whether there were any problems with 
the sale. And having taken that approach in this case, Im not persuaded the PPI was mis-
sold. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman