DRN-2712343
The complaint
Miss M complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Cap One) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss M had three cards provided by Cap One. The limit on the second card was also 
increased:
Date Limit
Card A  April 2015 £200 (closed February 2017)
Card B  June 2015 £500
Card B  limit increase  December 2016 £750
Card C  April 2017 £400
Miss M went onto a payment plan on Card B and Card C in November 2019. Her credit file 
was marked with late payments.
Miss M complained that Cap One lent to her irresponsibly. She shouldnt have been given 
the cards in the first place, nor the increase in limit. She used the cards for gambling  and 
this shouldve alerted Cap One she had problems. She said she had 20 payday loans and 
also defaulted debts. When she went onto a payment plan with Cap One, her credit file was 
marked, and this wasnt fair.
Cap One said theyd acted responsibly. On Card A, Miss M said her income was £9000 per 
annum and she was a homeowner. There were four defaulted debts showing  but they 
werent recent to her application. There werent any payday loans showing. Payments were 
made on time.  On Card B, Miss M said her income was £10000 per annum, plus other 
income of £3000.  Her other credit agreements were looking OK, and there werent any 
payday loans. Payments were made on time. So  the increase in limit on Card B also 
passed Cap Ones credit tests and was agreed. On Card C, Miss M said her income was 
£13000 per annum and she said she was living with her parents. There had been no late 
payments or new defaults recorded on her credit file, and there werent any active payday 
loans. So, the card was agreed. Cap One said theyd reported the correct data on Miss Ms 
credit file.
Miss M brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Cap Ones checks were 
reasonable and proportionate  and didnt do anything wrong.
Miss M didnt agree and asked that her complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M has said that Cap One shouldnt have given her the cards, nor increased the limit on 
Card B  as she was gambling and was in financial difficulty. She had more than 20 payday 
loans  so Cap One shouldve seen this information and taken the decision not to give her 
the cards in the first place. And, when Cap One agreed to a payment plan for her  in 
November 2019, this was marked on her credit file.
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We have to check whether Cap 
One acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness assessment 
as set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must undertake a 
reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the customer 
not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to make 
repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
Ive looked at what happened here. When Miss M applied for Card A in April 2015, her 
application showed she told Cap One she had income of £9000 per annum. Ive seen there 
were two defaults showing on her records, but these were old  in 2011 and 2012. So, Cap 
One were correct in taking the view that these were some time before  and therefore were 
OK.  Looking at Card B, issued in June 2015  Miss M said she had total income of £13000 
per annum, and was a homeowner. Again, the defaults from 2011 and 2012 were showing  
but they were a long time before. There was one payday loan showing on Miss Ms credit file 
 but this was shown as repaid in 2013. So, again all was OK - and Cap One were justified 
in issuing the card. When they looked at the increase in limit to £750 on Card B, similar 
information was shown. On Card C, Miss M said her income was £13000 per annum  and 
living with her parents. The information on defaulted debts and payday loans was the same 
as for Card B.
Miss M says she was gambling, and this shouldve alerted Cap One to her problems. Ive 
looked at her statements with Cap One. It looks like all three cards were used almost 
exclusively for gambling payments. But equally, all minimum monthly payments were made 
on time on all the cards  up to July 2018. So - I dont think Cap One shouldve been 
expected to have been on notice there were problems. And  its not for Cap One (or us) to 
pass judgement on how customers choose to spend money  thats up to them. 
Things clearly changed for Miss M in the middle of 2018  when there were late payments 
and over limit situations on Card B and Card C. There were late fees charged on Card B 
eight times between July 2018 and November 2019, plus one over limit fee. In October 2019 
and November 2019, there were two late fees and one overlimit fee charged on Card C. So 
 Miss M was showing signs she was in difficulty in 2018  but that was a long time after the 
cards were issued, or the limit increased.
Cap One agreed a payment plan for Miss M in November 2019. Interest and fees were 
stopped, and no payments were needed for three months. Ive seen the letter sent to Miss M 
by Cap One. This outlines the agreement but also says If you fail to maintain monthly 
payments, well report these missed payments (arrears) to the credit bureau So  Cap 
One did say what would happen. All lenders, including Cap One, have an obligation to report accurate information to credit reference agencies and its normal that such arrangements are 
reported as such  so I cant say that Cap One did anything wrong here.  
Miss M had said she had a lot of payday loans when the cards were issued, plus other 
debts. Ive seen her credit file  and there are other debts and payday loans showing  but 
these only appear from 2018 and thereafter  so Cap One wouldnt have been aware of 
these when they agreed the cards in 2015 and 2017. So  it looks like Miss Ms financial 
difficulties started after Cap One issued the cards to her.
So  and I can see that Miss M will be disappointed by my decision - I think Cap One acted 
fairly and reasonably, and I wont be asking them to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman