DRN-2852589
Complaint
Mr S has complained that Bamboo Limited (Bamboo) unfairly accepted him as the 
guarantor on a guarantor loan taken out by a friend. He says he wasnt in a position to be 
able to afford to make the repayments to the loan, in the event he had to, as hed already 
agreed to act as a guarantor for the same borrower on another loan with another provider.
Background and my provisional decision of 13 April 2021
One of our investigators initially reviewed what Mr S and Bamboo had told us. And she 
thought that Bamboo shouldnt have accepted Mr S as the guarantor for this loan. So she 
upheld Mr S complaint. Bamboo disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at this 
complaint.
On 13 April 2021, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on Mr S 
complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started by explaining that Bamboo needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether Mr S could afford to make the loan payments in the event he had to 
before accepting him as the guarantor on this loan. Our website sets out what we typically 
think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we 
think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a prospective guarantors income 
was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the 
greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and financial difficulty becoming an issue. So 
wed expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to provide credit irresponsibly.
I explained that in this case, Bamboo provided the borrower with a guarantor loan for 
£5,000.00 in May 2018. It was secured by way of a guarantee and indemnity agreement and 
was to due be repaid in 48 monthly instalments of around £213.37.
Bamboo said it accepted Mr S as a guarantor after he provided details of his monthly income 
and expenditure. It said it cross-checked Mr S expenditure declaration against information 
on a credit search it carried out and data from the Office of National Statistics. All of this 
information showed that Mr S would be able to make the loan repayments in the event he 
had to. On the other hand, Mr S has said he wasnt in a position to afford these monthly 
payments - especially as hed agreed to act as a guarantor on another loan for the same 
borrower with another provider.
I carefully thought about what Mr S and Bamboo said. And I thought that the information 
provided did suggest Mr S was asked to provide details of his income and expenditure and 
Bamboo didnt just rely on what it was told. I knew that our investigator thought that Bamboo 
needed to do more to verify Mr S actual expenditure. But the credit search Bamboo carried 
showed that he had low outstanding balances (in comparison to the credit limits) and that his 
accounts were well managed. 
So I didnt think that there was any concerning information on the credit file and on the 
contrary, I thought it suggested Mr S was in a stable enough position to maintain the 
payments in the event he had to. In these circumstances, I didnt think that it was 
unreasonable to use ONS data to calculate Mr S non-mortgage related living expenses as 
everything obtained suggested he didnt fall outside the profile of the average customer and 
there was a reasonable margin left over to make the loan payments.
I accepted that Mr S was now having difficulty making the payments to this loan and I 
explained that I was sorry to hear this. But it looked like Mr S difficulty making the payments 
to this loan stemmed from him being required to make payments on another guarantor loan, 
which the borrower hadnt been making payments to. I couldnt see that this loan was ever 
declared to Bamboo and it wouldnt have shown up on any credit searches carried out on 
either party given it was taken out just before this application. I also thought it relevant to 
mention that while I thought Bamboos checks were proportionate in this instance and 
therefore it didnt need to check Mr S bank statements, the copies Mr S provided us with 
didnt explicitly show the other guarantor loan referred to either. 
I accepted that Mr S might not have been expecting to make the payments and he might 
have even felt it was unfair to expect him to do so given it was the borrower who received 
the funds. But that was the nature of the agreement he entered into. And while Mr S said 
that he only agreed to act as a guarantor because he was pressured into doing so as the 
borrower said he wanted to purchase a property at a good price, I couldnt see how Bamboo 
will have known this or that this means it acted unfairly. 
I finally explained that it was only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I didnt think that 
Bamboo did anything wrong in deciding to accept Mr S as a guarantor. The key thing here 
was that it carried out proportionate checks which suggested the repayments would be 
affordable for him in the event he had to make them. Mr S actions at the time at least also 
suggested that he was willingly agreeing to act as a guarantor on this loan. 
So overall I didnt think that Bamboo had treated Mr S unfairly or unreasonably when 
accepting him as a guarantor on this loan. As this was the case and while I sympathised with 
Mr S as a result of the position he now found himself in, my final decision set out that I 
wasnt intending to uphold his complaint. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Bamboo responded to confirm receipt of my provisional decision and its acceptance. It also 
provided nothing further for me to think about.
Mr B also responded. He queried whether Bamboo had any obligation to assess affordability 
for the borrower and also queried the reliance on ONS data during the check on his ability to 
afford payments.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can confirm that Bamboo was also required to assess whether the loan was affordable for 
the borrower. It wasnt entitled to simply rely on Mr S being able to afford the payments in the event he had to make them. However, Mr S argument on this loan being unaffordable 
for the borrower has been in large part based on the existence of the guarantor loan, which 
he also guaranteed, and was taken just before this one. 
But Ive already explained why Bamboo wont have been aware of this bearing in mind the 
proximity of the earlier application to this one and it also not showing on the bank statements 
Mr S has provided us with either. The bank statements do show a transfer to another party 
but there isnt anything to indicate that these funds are the proceeds from another guarantor 
loan. And as Ive mentioned previously the consistency and plausibility of the other 
information Bamboo gathered, in this particular case, means I dont think that it was in any 
event necessary to request Mr S bank statements anyway. 
Equally, despite having been provided with additional time to do so, Mr S hasnt been able to 
provide us with any other information on the borrowers circumstances either. I know Mr S 
has referred to other loans held by the borrower. But other loans doesnt on its own mean 
this loan was unaffordable especially in the absence of any corroboration those loans may 
have been in difficulty, or any indication from the borrower that he thinks this Bamboo loan 
shouldnt have been provided to him because it was unaffordable. So Ive not been provided 
with enough here to reasonably make the finding that the loan shouldnt have been provided 
to the borrower in the first place. Of course, if the borrower does now believe that the loan 
was unaffordable then this is a matter he can and should take up with Bamboo. 
Ive also thought about what Mr S has said about the use of ONS data in Bamboos 
assessment of his ability to make payments in the event he had to. But Bamboo didnt simply 
use the ONS data on the average disposable income for someone his age. What it did was 
supplement what Mr S declared about his mortgage payments with what it saw on his credit 
file and ONS data on average living costs to arrive at estimated disposable income. 
I know there was some discussion about Mr S existing credit commitments. And while Mr S 
did confirm he never had a payday loan and this was confirmed by the credit check, there 
was never any mention of Mr S being a guarantor on another loan for the borrower. Bearing 
in mind Mr S strong credit history and there not being anything else to suggest his 
circumstances fell outside those of the average consumer, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for Bamboo to have used ONS data in the way that it did, in this particular instance. 
Furthermore, as I also pointed out in my provisional decision, even though I dont think 
Bamboo was required to obtain bank statements, there isnt anything Mr S bank statements 
which suggest that his living costs were significantly higher or that he wouldnt be able to 
make the payments to this loan. So Im not persuaded that further checks on Mr S living 
expenses would, in any event, have made a difference to Bamboos decision to accept Mr S 
as a guarantor on this loan.
Overall and having carefully considered everything, including Mr S further points in 
response to my provisional decision, Im still not upholding Mr S complaint. 
I appreciate this will be incredibly disappointing for Mr S. I do very much sympathise with the 
position hes found himself in as the borrowers refusal to pay or engage with this loan has 
had a significant adverse impact on Mr S previously strong credit and financial position. But, 
as Ive explained throughout, its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a business did something wrong. And I hope Mr S will understand why 
Ive not been provided with enough to be persuaded a to issue a final decision which finds 
Bamboo did something wrong here and that hell at least feel his concerns have been 
listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr S complaint, Id like to remind Bamboo of its ongoing obligation to exercise forbearance, should it choose to collect payments from Mr S and it be 
the case hes experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision of 13 April 2021, Im not 
upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman