DRN-3482332
The complaint
Miss S complains about how West Bay Insurance Plc dealt with a claim on her car insurance
policy.
What happened
West Bay received a claim from a third party insurer who said Miss S had reversed into the
third partys car and caused damage. As West Bay were unaware of the incident, they called
Miss S but the number didnt work so they sent her an e-mail asking her to get in contact. As
West Bay didnt get a response, they sent another e-mail asking Miss S to get in contact.
West Bay didnt get a response from Miss S to their emails, so they paid the third partys
claim for damage to their car on a without prejudice basis. West Bay however asked for
evidence of the personal injury claim from the third party but didnt get a response.
Miss S contacted West Bay to get details of her no claims discount and was told about the
third party claim. Miss S disputed the claim and complained. She said it was a fraudulent
claim and that shed been the victim of harassment and thought this was connected to the
harassment shed had.
West Bay looked into the complaint and partially upheld it. They said theyd tried to contact
Miss S at the time but had not been successful. West Bay acknowledged they could have
contacted her by letter as well and also that they hadnt let her know the outcome of the
claim. Because of this, West Bay offered Miss S £100 compensation. Miss S didnt think this
was good enough and referred her complaint here.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 18 November 2022 where I said:
The terms and conditions of Miss Ss policy, like most policies we see, give West Bay the
right to take over the defence or settlement of any claim, as it sees fit. That means it might
make a decision Miss S disagrees with and not try to recover its outlay or settle a claim from
the third party or their insurer. But wed look at whether West Bay made a reasonable
decision in doing this based on the evidence they had and the circumstances of the case.
Ive reviewed West Bays internal records and can see they received a claim from a third
party for damage to their car and personal injury. Because of this, West Bay called Miss S
but found the phone number didnt work. They also checked with the broker of the policy and
found they had the same number. West Bay therefore sent Miss S an e-mail to let her know
about the claim. As they didnt get a response, they sent another e-mail.
I understand Miss S disputes the e-mails were sent and said shed changed her phone
number. However, I can see from West Bays records the e-mails were sent and that they
tried to call her. Im therefore not persuaded West Bay did anything wrong by trying two
methods of communication. So, while they could have sent her a letter as well, Im not
satisfied West Bay acted unreasonably in using the phone number and e-mail address they
had been provided for Miss S.
As West Bay were unable to get Miss Ss account of what happened they only had the third
partys version of events. So they settled the claim for the damage to their car but asked for
evidence for the personal injury claim. Given West Bay didnt have Miss Ss side of the story
and had made reasonable attempts to contact her Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for
them to do this as they would have found it difficult to challenge the third partys claim.
I can also see that following Miss Ss communication with West Bay they now have concerns
about the claim and therefore have recorded the claim as bonus allowed and sent her a
letter confirming this. However, West Bay have also shown that they dont think this is a
claim they could successfully defend if it went to court. Im therefore satisfied its fair and
reasonable to have the claim recorded on the external claim database with it being marked
as bonus allowed. I say this because West Bay have paid out on this claim and not been
able to recover the money. However given the concerns Miss S has raised theyve amended
it to be recorded as bonus allowed and confirmed it wont affect Miss Ss no claims
discount (NCD). When taking all of the circumstance into account Im satisfied this is a fair
and reasonable outcome.
West Bay responded and accepted my provisional decision. They confirmed theyd already 
recorded the claim as bonus allowed and sent Miss S a letter confirming her NCD had been 
allowed. West Bay also said its for the broker to send Miss S confirmation of her NCD but 
that they would ask the broker to send it to Miss S if needed, 
Miss S responded and didnt agree. She said Id misrepresented her by saying shed 
received the e-mails when she hadnt and said that shed never been sent a letter. Miss S 
also said she had a right to know who had made the claim about her but hadnt been told. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Miss Ss response, but its not persuaded me to depart from my provisional 
decision. I say this because Ive not said Miss S received the e-mails, just that Im satisfied 
West Bay made reasonable attempts to contact her. So, while I agree no letters were sent 
Im not persuaded West Bay acted unreasonably for the reasons set out above and in my 
provisional decision. 
In regard to Miss Ss point about not knowing who has made the claim against here. This 
isnt something which was part of this complaint. Therefore, Im not going to comment on it 
here. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
West Bay Insurance Plc acted fairly and reasonably by recording the claim as bonus 
allowed and providing Miss S with a letter confirming this and confirming it hasnt affected 
her NCD. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman