DRN-3797020
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund the entire amount she 
lost to an investment scam in April 2022. Barclays has only offered to refund a partial 
amount of the money lost, which Mrs S doesnt think is fair.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, as I believe 
Barclays offer is fair for the following reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Barclays couldve done more to prevent Mrs S falling victim to 
the scam orchestrated by Bit-Premium, which is why it offered to pay 50% of her loss 
from the £2,150 payment she made on 7 April 2022 onwards. Barclays didnt offer to 
refund the entire loss, however, as it thought that Mrs S should share responsibility.
In terms of the first two payments made of £3 and £500, I dont think Barclays ought 
to refund either of these. They were not so unusual as to amount to a significant 
deviation in the way the account was normally run, so the bank would not have been 
required to prevent or question Mrs S about either of these payments. 
In terms of Barclays offer to repay 50% of the remaining payments, Im satisfied it 
would be fair and reasonable for Mrs S to share responsibility for her loss. She took 
out loans at the direction of the scammers in order to fund further trades, but was told 
to mislead the lenders as to the purpose of the loans, saying they were for home 
improvements and debt consolidation. The fact that she was being told to be 
dishonest (and potentially even fraudulent) to the lenders she was approaching ought 
reasonably to have put Mrs S on notice that something wasnt right. But she 
proceeded to make the payments without question or further research.
When Barclays spoke to Mrs S, she also failed to be upfront about what she was 
doing, as she said she hadnt been in contact with any investment broker, and neither 
had she downloaded any remote access software to her device, both of which were 
not true. So, having considered all of these circumstances and contributing factors to 
her loss, Im persuaded it would be fair and reasonable for Mrs S to share 
responsibility, and that a reduction in compensation by 50% is in line with what this 
service would recommend. As a result, I dont think Barclays needs to take any 
further action as Im satisfied its original offer is fair. 
Barclays are also under no obligation to refund the money to Mrs S under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code either, as the Code only applies to 
payments made to another person (which wouldnt have been the case here given 
the payments were made to Mrs Ss own crypto wallet with Skrill before being moved 
on to the scammer). 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman