DRN-2313336
The complaint
Mr T complains that Scottish Equitable Plc mis-sold him a pension plan. And he is unhappy 
that he is unable to receive a refund or take the money out of the pension now. 
What happened
Mr T has a Group Personal Pension that is provided by Scottish Equitable. This was set up 
by his employers in 2013. It sent details of its employees to Scottish Equitable that required 
a pension. And the employer made contributions into the pension plan for Mr T.
In May 2019 Mr T wrote to Scottish Equitable to ask that his pension be cancelled, and the 
money paid into his bank account. 
In June, Scottish Equitable wrote to Mr T to explain it couldnt do what hed asked. And it set 
out his options.
Mr T has told us he plans to leave the UK and back to his home country and so he wants to 
take the money out now. He thinks it is wrong that Scottish Equitable is keeping his money 
and hes concerned about how hell be able to access this money in the future from abroad.
Our investigator looked into things but didnt think Scottish Equitable had done anything 
wrong. He explained that the plan had been set up by Mr Ts employer. And due to pension 
legislation Scottish Equitable couldnt cancel the policy and pay it out to Mr T.
Mr T remained unhappy and believed what had happened was unlawful. He said his 
employer didnt explain to him the terms of the policy and if Scottish Equitable wasnt 
required to either, it should voluntarily reimburse the plan to him with interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T complains that the pension policy was mis-sold to him. He says he wasnt made aware 
of the terms and conditions and had he been told about it, he wouldnt have signed up to the 
pension. But as our investigator explained, the responsibility for the sale and the agreement 
to take out the pension doesnt fall within Scottish Equitables role here. I can only consider 
in this decision the actions and responsibilities of Scottish Equitable. Mr Ts employer set up 
this pension for him and other employees. It is a Group Personal Pension Plan (GPP) and 
Mr Ts employers sent Scottish Equitable a list of employees that it had agreed it would start 
a pension for. Scottish Equitables responsibilities were to administer the pension in line with 
the instructions of Mr T and his employers and in line with legislation. And this is what it has 
done.
If Mr T thinks his employer has done something wrong in setting up a pension plan for him, 
thats something he needs to take up with them. It was its responsibility to explain the policy 
to Mr T and not Scottish Equitables. I can only consider Scottish Equitables actions and as 
they arent responsible for the sale of the policy, I cant say it has done anything wrong or 
needs to do anything to put things right here.
Mr T has asked that Scottish Equitable pay him a refund of the plan and/or the full plan value 
now, as it is his money. However, Scottish Equitable cannot do this. Legislation (unless in 
exceptional circumstances such as serious ill-health) doesnt allow for pensions to be taken 
before the age of 55. So Scottish Equitable is permitted to say that it will not allow Mr T to 
take his fund before age 55.
Its also not an option for Scottish Equitable to voluntarily pay Mr T his pension out early. If it 
were to do so it could be subject to penalties under government legislation and its likely Mr 
Ts money would be of interest to HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC). It would likely be 
treated as an unauthorised payment under legislation  as it is not allowed under the 
governments tax rules  and a 55% penalty could be applied. 
Any cancellation request of the policy would need to come from Mr Ts employers, but I dont 
think this is likely to be successful in any event as the pension has been in place for longer 
than is allowed for a refund of contributions.
For Mr Ts information, whilst it does look like he contributed towards the plan, his employer 
has done so as well. So he has some benefit from opening the pension, as I dont believe he 
wouldve had the option to have the employers contributions paid directly to him rather than 
into a pension. Mr T says his money has been unlawfully taken from him but he should be 
aware that hell likely be able to take out this money once he reaches age 55.
I appreciate this might come with some difficulties if he is living outside the UK at this point. 
Scottish Equitable will be able to explain what its procedure is for paying pensions to people 
living abroad. However, it will not be able to give Mr T any financial advice. Mr T may also 
have the option to transfer the pension elsewhere and outside the UK but hed need to seek 
financial advice about this. And its possible due to the relative low value of the plan that this 
option isnt viable.
But ultimately Scottish Equitable hasnt done anything wrong. It wasnt responsible for the 
sale of Mr Ts plan. And the options that Mr T wants now arent allowed under UK pension 
legislation. Otherwise his options are as Scottish Equitable explained in its letter to him. 
Whilst Mr T cannot access this money now with Scottish Equitable he will be able to do so in 
the future.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman