DRN-1065139
The complaint
G complains that National Westminster Bank Plc recorded a CIFAS marker against its name 
and wont remove it. 
G is a limited company and the complaint is brought on its behalf by its director, who Ill refer 
to as Ms O.
CIFAS is one of the UKs fraud alert services.
What happened
The bank closed Gs account in September 2017. The following year, when Ms O was 
applying for a loan, she discovered that NatWest had recorded a CIFAS marker against her 
name and against G.
The complaint about the CIFAS marker recorded against Ms O has been considered 
separately by this service and I wont comment on it further here  this decision is only about 
the marker recorded against G.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied 
that NatWest had done enough to show that the CIFAS marker had been recorded correctly.
G did not agree. Ms O said, on Gs behalf and in summary, that:
G had no knowledge of any fraudulent transactions in or out of the account.
G was not operating at the time and the account was not in use.
G has been affected by a directors personal circumstances and this has impacted on 
its trading.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator explained why this service cant share with Ms O the detail of everything 
NatWest has told us. NatWest says it was put on notice, by a third party bank, that Gs 
account was due to receive a fraudulent credit; the account holder hadnt given authorisation 
for the payment to be made. 
The banks were able to stop the transaction, so G did not actually receive the payment. But 
I find NatWest had enough information to close Gs account and to record the CIFAS 
marker.
Ive taken into account that there were two directors of G when the fraudulent transaction 
was identified and that Ms O is now the sole director. But G is a separate legal entity and it 
was its account that was due to receive the fraudulent transaction.
Ive also considered that G wasnt operating at the time and that the account wasnt in use. 
But this doesnt change my conclusion  if the banks hadnt identified and stopped the 
transaction, it would have credited Gs account.
I understand Ms O feels G is being unfairly affected by an ex-directors personal 
circumstances. But I've found that the CIFAS marker is factually correct, so I cant ask HSBC
to remove it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O, as a director 
of G, to accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman