DRN-3251141
The complaint
M, a sole trader, complains that Mercer Limited provided it with misleading information when 
it took out a group private medical insurance policy.
What happened
M held a group private medical insurance policy with an insurer Ill call B. The policy was due 
to renew in February 2017. In December 2016, Mercer contacted M to let it know that B was 
changing its pricing structure. So Mercer recommended that M should enter the JLT 
Enhanced Medical Insurance Scheme. This policy was underwritten by an insurer Ill call A. 
Mercer told M that the premiums in the JLT scheme would be 15% lower than what it was 
paying to B and that cover would be like-for-like. It also said that if M claimed less than 75% 
of the net premium it paid, its premiums were guaranteed not to rise more than 8.5% at 
renewal, or that if M claimed more than 75% of the net premium it paid, the premium 
increase would be capped at 25%. M chose to take-up Mercers recommendation.
At renewal in February 2018, M benefited from the application of these caps when A 
calculated its new annual premium. However, in December 2019, M got in touch with Mercer 
as its renewal price exceeded the 25% cap amount. Mercer told M that A only offered the 
25% cap at the first renewal. M confirmed it wished to renew the policy. It raised further 
concerns about the renewal price directly with A in January 2020. A told M at this point that 
both caps would only apply for the first two years of a policy and as M was now entering its 
third policy year, no such caps would apply. M opted to renew the policy.
Subsequently, M had further concerns about the February 2021 renewal price. It complained 
that Mercer had misled it in December 2016 when itd recommended the policy, as M had 
understood that the price cap would apply indefinitely. 
Mercer didnt agree that itd misled M when it recommended the JLT scheme. It said the 
information itd provided didnt suggest that the price cap would be indefinite.
M wasnt happy with Mercers decision and it asked us to look into its complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Ms complaint should be upheld. He explained that private 
medical insurance policies are annual contracts which provide cover for one year at a time. 
He didnt think hed seen any evidence which suggested M had been told that the caps 
would continue indefinitely. And he noted that M had continued to renew the policy each 
year, despite being aware that the caps wouldnt apply after the first two years. So he didnt 
think Mercer needed to take any action.
M disagreed. In summary, it said that the 2016 mailing had referred to premiums rather 
than premium, which suggested it would apply to all future renewals. It also referred to the 
fact that the mailing referred didnt specifically state that the caps would only apply to the 
next renewal. It felt that at some point, the agreement regarding caps between A and Mercer 
had changed and that Mercer hadnt made M aware of this. The change to the caps was a 
significant change to the terms of Ms policy, but Mercer hadnt highlighted this. In 2020, 
Mercer had suggested the caps were previously intended to be applied indefinitely, but that 
thered been a contract change between Mercer and A. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint M, I dont think Mercer has acted unfairly and 
Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure M that while Ive summarised the background to this complaint and 
the detailed submissions its made, Ive carefully considered all its said and sent us. In 
making my decision though, I havent commented on each and every point its raised and 
nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
Theres no dispute that Mercer recommended that M should enter the JLT scheme. This 
means it needed to make sure that its advice was suitable for M. Ive looked closely at the 
email Mercer sent to M on 19 December 2019. The recommendation Mercer gave M within 
this email was for a new policy with A which was 15% cheaper than the cover M would have 
with B and which included like-for-like cover. The scheme also included enhanced dental 
and cashback benefits, together with the initial cap Ive outlined above. Given the policy was 
cheaper than Ms existing cover with B and provided additional benefits, it seems to me that 
the recommendation was broadly suitable for Ms needs.
Mercer also needed to ensure it gave M enough clear, fair and not misleading information 
about the policy to allow M to make an informed choice about whether or not to enter the 
scheme. M says that Mercer provided misleading information, which suggested that the 
premium increase caps would apply indefinitely. Ive thought about this carefully and Ive 
considered what Mercers email said about the cap. Ive set out this below:
Future Premium Stability: If the amount you claim as a company is less than 75% of the 
net premium paid, your premiums are guaranteed not to rise by more than 8.5% at renewal 
(based on the same membership as at the previous renewal). If you claim above 75% of 
your net premium, then the increase will be capped at 25% (premium caps subject to 
fluctuations in IPT and membership changes).
In my view, this paragraph doesnt state that the premium increase caps will apply to all 
future renewals and will apply indefinitely. Neither does it suggest that this was a commercial 
agreement Mercer had come to with A which would apply on an indefinite basis within the 
JLT scheme. I think the reference to at renewal makes it clear that Mercer is only referring 
to the next renewal here  especially as the explanation clause immediately afterwards 
refers to the previous renewal.
As the investigator explained and M accepts, private medical insurance policies are annual 
contracts of insurance. At each renewal, an insurer (in this case, A) is entitled to reassess 
the risk of claims being made and to decide whether or not it still wishes to provide cover 
and if so, at what price. A is commercially entitled to change its terms and underwriting at 
each renewal and as a broker, Mercer isnt in any way responsible for As underwriting and 
pricing decisions. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mercer and A entered into any form 
of binding contract which stated that A would offer such caps to Mercers commercial 
customers indefinitely.
On this basis then, I dont think Mercer gave M misleading information in December 2016 about the caps which led it to enter the JLT scheme when it wouldnt otherwise have done 
so. Id add that given the JLT scheme not only provided enhanced cover but was also 15% 
cheaper than the premium for a new policy with B wouldve been, I think its more likely than 
not that M wouldve opted to enter the JLT scheme in any event.
Mercer was responsible for the administration of Ms policy at each renewal. Ive seen a 
renewal email Mercer sent to M in December 2017. This says:
Please note that should we not hear back from you prior to the renewal date then the policy 
will automatically renew on the 01/02/18 as per the original renewal quote. It then becomes a 
12 month contract as it does each year so the premiums and benefits will not change within 
that time.
Im satisfied that this email made it sufficiently clear that the 2018 policy terms would apply 
for the duration of that 12-month contract. It also specifically states that premiums and 
benefits wouldnt change during that time. I think this clearly suggests that once the term of 
the contract was up, the premiums and benefits of the policy could change.
From the information Ive seen, it seems that M did initially benefit from the price caps 
Mercer had set out in its December 2016 email. I say that because Ive seen a copy of an 
email Mercer sent M in December 2018, shortly before renewal was due. This includes the 
following:
As part of the enhanced arrangement you benefit from a maximum price cap at this 
renewal. If the amount you claim as a company is less than 75% of the net premium paid, 
your premiums are guaranteed not to rise by more than 8.5% based on a consistent 
membership. (Emphasis added).
It seems then that for the 2019-20 policy year, M was still entitled to one of the price caps, 
although Mercer later confirmed with A that the 25% cap was no longer available after the 
first year because of Ms claims history. I note that email Mercer sent M regarding the price 
cap specifically refers to this renewal. Theres no suggestion that such a cap will apply at 
the next or any further renewals. And based on the fact that Im satisfied M did benefit from 
the price caps at the point it took out the policy, I dont find it was misled about the 
availability of this benefit in 2016.
M complained again in 2020 following receipt of its renewal price. At this point, A confirmed 
that any price caps would only apply for the first two years of cover with it. I havent seen 
anything from Mercer which suggested that M would be entitled to a price cap at this 
renewal. It seems M was aware that the caps no longer applied and chose to go ahead with 
renewing the policy regardless. Ive seen too Ms schedule for the 2021 year and the email 
chain preceding the renewal. I think Mercer made it clear enough that the caps wouldnt 
apply to the renewal price. Again, M opted to renew the policy in the knowledge that the 
caps wouldnt apply. In the round then, I think Mercer gave M clear and not misleading 
information at each renewal to ensure it could make an informed choice about whether or 
not to renew.
I do accept that in 2020, Mercer wrongly told M that the caps had originally applied to JLT 
policies indefinitely, but that this benefit had ended after an internal change. I dont doubt 
that this was confusing for M. But I need to bear in mind that this incorrect information was 
given to M four years after itd already entered into the JLT scheme and after it was already 
aware that the caps no longer applied. So I dont think this misinformation caused M to lose 
out financially in any way.
Based on the totality of the evidence Ive seen; I dont think Mercer gave M misleading or unclear information about the price caps. I dont find it suggested that M would benefit from 
such caps indefinitely or that it gave M inaccurate information about the way the policy 
worked. Im also satisfied that the recommendation Mercer made in December 2016 was 
suitable for it. 
So while I sympathise with Ms position, as I appreciate one of the policyholders suffers from 
a serious health condition and is unlikely to be able to find equivalent, alternative cover, Im 
not telling Mercer to do anything more.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman