DRN-1544878
 
Complaint
Mrs B has complained on behalf of herself and the estate of the late Mr B. She says Lloyds 
Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a PPI policy with a further advance on their mortgage in 2001. Mr and 
Mrs B paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It 
covered Mrs B, in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided that Mr and Mrs Bs PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Bs further advance application had a section for PPI. It offered them the choice 
to take it out or turn it down. The option to buy PPI was chosen, the option to turn it down 
was left blank, and Mr and Mrs B signed below to confirm what was on the form. They also 
signed and submitted an application specifically for PPI, separately to applying for the loan 
itself. Ive not seen any evidence to show that Mr and Mrs B were put under any unfair 
pressure to buy PPI, nor any wider problems with Lloyds sales process from the time. And 
theyd already been given their mortgage without PPI, which wouldve indicated to Mr and 
Mrs B that they didnt have to buy a policy to get their secured lending. Overall, I think its 
most likely that Lloyds made Mr and Mrs B aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, 
and that they chose to take it at the time.
Lloyds recommended the PPI for Mrs B, so it had to check it was right for her. And based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like 
Mrs B was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or 
limitations.
While Mrs B had benefits through work, she understandably couldnt remember how long 
they wouldve covered her for. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of her work benefits and 
covered her for up to twelve months in any one claim, which was most likely to have offered 
her significantly more comprehensive cover. She also had savings, though those wouldnt 
have lasted that long if needed to cover her full income. And the PPI meant she could 
effectively protect her savings and use them for other things. Ultimately, its worth bearing in 
mind that the loan was a significant, long-term commitment, and if Mr and Mrs B fell behind on the repayments, they risked losing their home. So it looks like the PPI couldve really 
been useful in protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs B about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr and Mrs B chose to take out PPI, which indicates 
they wanted this type of cover. As I explained above, Mrs B wasnt affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for Mr and Mrs B in 
case something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would 
pay out in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs B could 
cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely 
to have put them off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and the 
estate of Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman