DRN-3314567
The complaint
Miss F has complained about the service Lloyds Bank Plc provided when she visited branch to make 
a cash deposit. She feels she was treated in a discriminatory way due to her race. 
What happened
Miss F visited a branch of Lloyds in July 2021 to make a cash deposit. At the time she said a staff 
member from Lloyds was talking to a customer in the doorway of the branch. Due to the pandemic, 
and the fact the other customer wasnt wearing a face mask, Miss F didnt want to wait at the door, in 
close proximity to others. Miss F says she was asked why she had visited the branch and she pointed 
to the ATM machine and then proceeded to it.
While at the ATM machine, Miss F says a member of staff grabbed her arm and said she wasnt 
allowed to enter the branch until permitted. She said the member of staff started pressing buttons on 
the ATM machine to stop the deposit being made. During this period of time Miss F says the other 
customer in the branch was making extremist religious comments to her and when Miss F challenged 
this the branch member accused her of being racist and using unacceptable language. She says she 
was warned that if she continued Lloyds would close her account.
Miss F says she has been a victim of discrimination and after talking to a solicitor and the police she 
wanted to raise a complaint with Lloyds.
Lloyds looked into Miss Fs complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It said at that time the branch had an 
outside queueing system because of the restrictions put in place due to the pandemic. When Miss F 
approached the bank, a staff member was manning the door and assisting another customer. It says 
Miss F barged past the staff member at the door and the other customer. She was asked if she could 
wait until the member of staff had assisted the first customer, but it says that Miss F started to raise 
her voice and began shouting at the member of staff and the customer. Lloyds said Miss F became 
abusive and aggressive and was warned that if she continued, it would close her account. 
In addition, Lloyds said it had to call the police as a result of the altercation in the branch. But it says 
Miss F left the branch when she realised it was on the phone to the police. Lloyds also says it followed 
its internal security processes to have the complaint logged formally. As a result the area manager 
authorised the branch manager to issue notice to close Miss Fs account.
Miss F remained unhappy with Lloyds response, she is frustrated by how she was treated, upset she 
was exposed to bigotry and extremist comments and she says she was discriminated against. She is 
also frustrated that she asked for the CCTV footage to be reviewed by the complaints manager, one 
day after the event occurred. But Lloyds refused to do so. As such, she referred the complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator looked into Miss Fs concerns, but she didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. To 
summarise, she said was persuaded by Lloyds version of events as such she didnt recommend it do 
anything further.
Miss F was unhappy with the investigators opinion. She said the complaint hadnt been investigated 
properly as the investigator hadnt reviewed the CCTV footage and the reason Lloyds hadnt provided 
it was due to it covering up its actions. She said the investigator was choosing to believe Lloyds over 
her. So, she asked for the complaint to be passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've taken into account Miss Fs very detailed submissions about what happened at the time. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to 
comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. 
Miss F says that Lloyds have discriminated against her on the grounds of race. Firstly, I would like to 
highlight that it is not my role to decide if the Equality Act 2010 has been breached as thats for a 
court to decide. However, Ive looked at whether Miss F was treated fairly with the actions Lloyds took 
after the incident took place in branch. 
Secondly, Miss F has made comments about hate crimes being committed in branch by a third party 
and Lloyds. Again, it is not my role to decide on such matters. But Miss F has already stated that she 
has raised this with her local police department. As such, I wont be commenting on this in my 
decision.
While the testimonies of Miss F and Lloyds differ substantially, there are aspects of the complaint 
which are undisputed. But I would like to point out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive 
or contradictory, I make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened given the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Its not in dispute that on the day Miss F visited the branch, Lloyds had an outside queuing system in 
place due to the pandemic. This meant customers had to wait to be served. Both Miss F and Lloyds 
say a member of staff was assisting another customer at the time Miss F approached the branch. As 
such, Miss F proceeded to the ATM machine, without permission from the staff member manning the 
door. 
Given the circumstances at the time, I dont think it is unreasonable that Lloyds had restrictions in 
place to keep its customers safe. So, I can see why the staff member approached Miss F to inform 
her that she wasnt permitted to enter the branch without permission to do so. And I dont think it was 
unfair of Lloyds to ask Miss F to respect the restrictions that were in place to protect its branch staff 
and customers.
Miss F says that she was assaulted in branch when a staff member grabbed her arm. She also states 
that another customer in branch was making bigotry and extremist comments towards her. She has 
said that if Lloyds had reviewed the CCTV footage at the time (like she requested on many occasions) 
it would have proven her version of events.
I have listened to the phone calls Miss F had with Lloyds on the day in question and the days 
following the event. On several occasions, Miss F asked for the CCTV footage and requested that 
Lloyds reviewed it. I have also considered Lloyds comments in regards to this, its system notes and 
its internal policy in regards to CCTV footage. 
I appreciate that Lloyds has said it doesnt usually review CCTV footage unless a criminal offence 
occurs, and that it only holds CCTV footage for a set period of time (in line with its policy). However, 
given both parties version of events, I am disappointed to see that Lloyds didnt think the events that 
occurred met its criteria of when it reviews CCTV footage. Especially given the fact it would have been 
available at the time of the request.
However, I have also considered how useful the CCTV footage would have been in providing clarity 
on what happened. I say that because, CCTV footage doesnt usually record sound. As such the 
comments Miss F says were directed at her by the third party and Lloyds wouldnt have been 
recorded, as such I cant be sure it wouldve shown who was at fault. Lloyds said it was Miss F who 
had made offensive and inappropriate comments, again the CCTV footage wouldnt have provided clarity on this point either. So, while I am disappointed that Lloyds didnt review the CCTV footage, I 
have gone on to consider the events that followed.
I appreciate Miss F has said that if the CCTV footage had been reviewed it would have proven that a 
staff member assaulted her in branch. And I have explained above why this may not be the case. 
However, I have also considered the fact Miss F says when the police were called to the scene, she 
spoke to them and no further action was taken, and I have no reason to disbelieve Miss F. But, given 
a conversation took place after the event occurred, I think its reasonable to conclude Miss F would 
have had sufficient cause to notify the police of the assault that she had experienced in branch, and 
due to the concerning nature of the allegations made, this would have subsequently prompted an 
investigation to be carried out. Miss F hasnt provided a police report or any information on reporting 
the assault to the police.
Again, both parties agree that an altercation occurred in branch after Miss F proceeded to use the 
ATM machine without permission. But how and why the altercation escalated is in dispute. However, 
in circumstances where a customer becomes abusive or threatening in branch (as Lloyds have 
alleged), we expect the business in question, in this case Lloyds, to follow its own internal security 
process. I have reviewed the system notes, internal correspondence and security logs provided by 
Lloyds and I can see Lloyds did raise a security alert. The area manager reviewed the issue raised 
and authorised the branch to close Miss Fs account with notice, which Lloyds is entitled to do. Both 
parties also agree that the police were called to the branch. However, no action was taken by the 
police. 
With his mind I think is reasonable to conclude the altercation that occurred in branch unfortunately 
escalated to the extent that Lloyds felt it was necessary to raise a security alert and contact the police 
to ensure the safety of their staff and other customers. On balance, I think it is unlikely Lloyds would 
have taken these steps if Miss F hadnt demonstrated some degree of unreasonable behaviour. As 
such, I think its fair to conclude that Miss Fs and Lloyds relationship had broken down and therefore 
Lloyds taking the action to close Miss Fs account with notice wasnt unfair or unreasonable.
So, with that in mind, considering the available evidence and the events that followed the incident, I 
cant fairly conclude that Lloyds has treated Miss F unfairly or unreasonably. I understand that Miss F 
will be unhappy with this decision, but I hope my explanation for how I arrived at this outcome gives 
her some assurance her complaint has been considered impartially.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman