DRN-3225157
The complaint
Mr K complains about Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) about its handling of a chargeback 
request and an associated charge for interest. Mr K wants Barclays to refund his charge and 
the interest. 
What happened
Mr K had a Barclaycard which he settled each month. He usually did this by cheque, but also 
had a direct debit set up to make minimum payments. 
In August 2019, Mr K purchased his car insurance using his Barclaycard. He paid for this in 
full at a cost of £595.38. 
Shortly afterwards, Mr Ks car insurer charged a further £82.08 to Mr Ks card. 
Mr K received his statement and queried this charge. He didnt think it should have been 
paid and he requested a chargeback. 
Barclays issued a temporary refund to Mr K of £82.08. 
In October 2019, Barclays then requested evidence from Mr K in line with the scheme rules 
for chargeback. In its letter it said that the evidence was needed by 1 November 2019 or the 
claim would be cancelled. 
Mr K did not provide the evidence in time and the claim was cancelled. The charge of £82.08 
was debited from Mr Ks card again. 
Barclays issued Mr K with his statement. This showed that the balance brought forward from 
his September statement was £881.91. Mr K had paid £809.83 by cheque (being the 
balance, minus the disputed claim) and he had also paid a further £8.81 by direct debit. This 
left a balance of £63.27 on his card.
His October spending was then added to this.
Mr K made a complaint to Barclays. He thought it was unfair that the charge had been taken 
in the first place, and then that it had been re-debited. He also thought that the £63.27 
detailed on his statement was interest on the residual balance. 
Barclays took until June 2020 to respond to his complaint. It responded saying that it had 
acted correctly in respect of the chargeback claim. Barclays apologised for the delay in 
responding and offered Mr K £50 compensation to reflect this delay. 
Mr K did not receive this response and continued writing to Barclays. Further final responses 
were sent to him, and among these Barclays explained that the £63.27 was a residual 
balance. 
Mr K was not happy with this and contacted us. 
There have been other decisions made in respect of this complaint, concluding that the 
whole of Mr Ks complaint is within our jurisdiction for consideration. 
Our investigators did not uphold Mr Ks complaint. They considered that Barclays had acted 
in line with the scheme rules in requiring information and then closing his chargeback claim. 
They also considered that the £63.27 charge was not interest but was left over from the 
previous balance. 
Mr K has not accepted those views and asked for an ombudsman decision. He believes that 
Barclays did not write to him as it has said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ks upset in this matter and it is clear that he believes that the charge should 
not have been allowed to be taken in the first place. I understand that view, but when a 
charge is requested from a bank, appearing to be authorised, it is not unreasonable for a 
bank to make the payment. 
Mr K then challenged the payment and the appropriate step was to initiate a chargeback. 
Barclays did this and made a temporary refund. This was correct. 
Barclays then requested specific evidence to support Mr Ks claim. This was in line with the 
scheme rules of the card issuer. It appears that Mr K may not have received this letter, but I 
accept that it was sent. This letter gave details of what information was needed and gave a 
deadline for this to be provided. 
Understandably, given that he did not receive it, Mr K did not provide the information in time, 
and Barclays closed the claim. I appreciate that this is frustrating, but I cannot say that 
Barclays was wrong to close the claim. At this point the charge was re-debited from Mr Ks 
card. 
There had been a small credit of £10 on Mr Ks account, and so when he made his other 
payments (both by cheque and by direct debit), but left the re-debited charge unpaid, these 
resulted in the unpaid charge being reduced to £63.27 outstanding. 
This caused confusion, as Mr K then thought that this reflected a new charge, rather than the 
disputed charge being left on his account. 
I understand this confusion, but again cannot say that Barclays was wrong to present the 
payments and residual balance this way.
When Barclays then responded to Mr Ks complaint, too much time had passed to make 
another claim and so Barclays advised Mr K to take the dispute further with the car insurer. I 
can appreciate why Mr K is upset at the time taken, but I think that the offer of compensation 
is appropriate to reflect the impact of this. 
Overall, I am satisfied that Barclays has handled the chargeback in line with the scheme 
rules and that the statements appropriately showed the unpaid balance, rather than a new 
charge. I therefore agree with the investigators views and do not uphold Mr Ks complaint.
I realise that this will be disappointing, but I hope it clearly explains my reasons. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint and do not ask Barclays Bank 
Plc to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman