DRN-3390458
The complaint
C complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven) unfairly declined a claim for 
the theft of a van and cancelled the commercial motor insurance policy they held with it.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 8 March 2022. I planned to come to a 
different outcome to our investigator, and so I wanted to give both parties the chance to 
respond with anything additional they wanted me to consider before I reached my final 
decision. Im now in a position to come to my decision.
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision.
What happened
C insured a van they had recently purchased for the sole use of one of the 
company's directors, who for the purpose of this decision are referred to as J.
The policy was bought through a broker with an initial quote been obtained from an 
online comparison site, followed by a call with the broker, where J confirmed the 
details for the policy. The details he confirmed included the address where the van is 
kept overnight, in this call and online he gave an address I refer to as "L". The policy 
began on 18 November 2020. The policy included in overnight parking endorsement 
that said:
"overnight parking. If the vehicle on this insurance is damaged or stolen 
overnight and not kept in the declared locked building or compound, private 
driveway or carport your claim will be declined"
on 28 January 2020, J called Haven to make a claim as the van had been stolen 
overnight, from an address that was different to the one on the policy, I refer to this 
as W. Haven began its validation checks which included a video interview with J to 
understand the circumstances of the theft.
In that video interview J explained that the van is with him at W where he stays for 
work, when asked how often it's there, he said it's around 50% of the time and the 
rest of the time it is kept at L.
Based on this haven declined the claim saying it wasn't covered because of the 
endorsement. It also cancelled C's policy as it said they had misrepresented the risk 
to it when taking out the policy.
C was unhappy with this response and so brought the complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the case and issued various assessments, in the most recent 
she felt that Cs complaint should be upheld, in summary she said:
C hadn't misrepresented the risk when taking out the policy with Haven and 
so Haven should remove the avoidance/cancellation
it was fair for Haven to retain the full premiums of the policy as it had dealt 
with previous claims under the policy
as Haven had provided underwriting evidence showing it would have covered 
the second address for a higher premium (the investigator calculated this to 
be 58%), it should now pay the claim on a proportionate basis and as 8% 
simple interest
C were keen to know what this would mean in terms of valuation for the van, but in 
principle accepted this outcome.
Haven didn't agree with the investigator, it maintained as this was a commercial 
contract it was C's duty under the Insurance Act to ensure they disclosed all the 
material facts straight before entering into the contract, and so the misrepresentation 
was a reckless breach and it was entitled to cancel the policy and declined the claim. 
The matter is now been passed to me to decide.
What I've provisionally decided  and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not intending to uphold this complaint for reasons I'll explain 
below.
Although I've read and considered the whole file, I'll keep my comments to what I 
think is relevant. If I don't comment on the specific point, it's not because I haven't 
considered it but because I don't think I need to comment on it in order to reach the 
right outcome.
In this complaint and only considering the actions of Haven, not the actions of the 
broker.
When C bought this policy, they had a responsibility  under the Insurance Act 2015 
(the Act)  to make a fair presentation of the risk. And for Haven to take any action at 
all it needs to show C didn't do this and that they made what's known as a qualifying 
breach. Under the Act a qualifying breach is a breach for which the insurer has a 
remedy against the customer because they would even not have sold them the policy 
or would have done so on different terms.
J on behalf of C initially completed an online quotation form and was asked is the 
van kept overnight at home or elsewhere?" J chose home (L), J, later confirmed this 
in a call with the broker. Haven is said if C had answered this question correctly, it 
would have charged an additional premium. For the following reasons, I'm satisfied 
that J didn't answer this question correctly:
J confirmed in his video interview with Haven that the van is with him at W 
50% of the time.
J is registered with Companies House as the director of C with his address 
listed as W, and has been so since August 2020, so prior to the inception of 
the policy.During the video interview J confirmed in the two months since owning the 
van he had only driven around a thousand miles. It is approximately 95 miles 
between L and W, so I find it unlikely that the van was being driven between 
the two addresses on a regular basis.
Because of this I don't think C made a fair presentation of the risk to Haven.
For Haven to take any action it needs to show it would have either not insured C or 
done so but on different terms. Haven has provided evidence to show if C had told it 
about the second address, it would have charged an additional premium. I'm 
therefore satisfied C has made a qualifying breach under the Act.
The remedies available to Haven depends on whether the misrepresentation is 
deliberate or reckless, or neither deliberate nor reckless. In the Act a qualifying 
breach is considered deliberate or reckless if the insured:
new that it was in breach of the duty of fair presentation, or
did not care whether or not it was in breach of that duty.
If an insurer shows a qualifying breach to be deliberate or reckless it:
May avoid the contract and refuse all claims, and
need not return any of the premiums paid.
Given that J is insured as the only driver of the van and he confirmed in the video 
interview that he stayed at W when working, alongside the other points mentioned 
above. I believe see new the van was unlikely to be kept at L overnight, when taking 
out the policy, and so new that they were not providing a fair presentation of the risk. 
So, it follows I'm satisfied the breach can be considered deliberate or reckless. As 
such, Haven is entitled declined the claim, avoid the policy and retained the 
premiums, as it has done.
For completeness, I have gone on to consider Sees point where they later said that 
the van was kept at W only 20% of the time, not the 50% that was stated in the video 
interview. But this doesn't change things for me, as when the policy was taken the 
risk was presented as the van being kept at L overnight. So, even if it was only 20% 
of the time it was kept elsewhere this still would have meant that C had not given a 
fair presentation of the risk by saying it was kept at L overnight.
Furthermore, even if I accepted there was no misrepresentation here, which for 
clarity I don't, there is an endorsement on the policy, as quoted above, which means 
the claim would not have been a valid one so, Haven would not have needed to meet 
the claim regardless.
I understand this will be disappointing for C and is not the outcome they were hoping 
for. But I can't fairly say that Haven has acted unfairly when dealing with Cs claim or 
in its decision to cancel Cs policy and so don't require it to do anything differently.
My provisional decision
for the reasons set out above, I've provisionally decided not to uphold C's complaint.
I invited both parties to provide their comments.Haven didn't respond.
J on behalf of C responded by email and also had a conversation over the phone with our 
investigator, which I've listened to. In summary he did not agree with my provisional decision 
for the following reasons:
He was asked a question about where he usually kept the van and he says he 
usually kept it at L. And so, he'd answered that question correctly.
The reason the van had such low mileage is because it is only used by him when his 
employees are on holiday and he has to cover work. He does not normally go out to 
work, he is office based.
As the business is a 24-hour plumbing service the exclusion means that the van 
would never be covered at night. The van was at work when it was stolen and so the 
claim should be covered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've thought about J's comments, but they don't change things for me. However, I do think 
that I can offer him a bit more of an explanation around his points.
J says that he answered the question about where he usually kept the van correctly, but I 
don't agree. J had a responsibility to present a fair reflection of the risk to Haven when 
buying the policy. Even if, as he says, he was limited to choosing one place when he did the 
online quotation, he had the chance to correct that when asked on the phone if the van is 
kept at L overnight. But he didn't do that.
J has told Haven, since the van was stolen, that the van is kept at L 50% of the time and at 
W 50% of the time. He's since changed this to L 80% of time and W 20% of the time. But 
that doesn't correlate with other things he has said. In the video interview he said he was 
talking from his office at W. He said he stays at W when he is working. W is his registered 
address on Companies House. 
J has said that the van isn't regularly used and is only used when his employees are on 
annual leave and he has to cover their jobs. And as a director, he mainly works from the 
office. When J initially took the policy on the phone, he said he would need insurance for 
40,000 miles per year, this doesn't seem right for a van that is not regularly used, and when 
it is its only driven by an office-based director.
All of these things together persuade me that it's more likely than not that the van is kept at 
W at least 50% of the time, as he'd said in the video interview. And so, I can't fairly say that J 
answered that question correctly or gave a fair presentation of the risk to Haven when 
buying the policy.
The exclusion in the policy does not mean the van is never covered overnight, as J 
suggests. But rather when it is not working it has to be parked overnight at the home 
address, L, as declared by J when taking the policy, to be covered.
J has said the van was at work when it was stolen, but that's not true the van was parked 
overnight on a street close to W. If, the van had been stolen while it was on a call out then I 
would agree the van was at work and would have been covered.It follows, that as J's comments haven't changed things for me. I won't be asking Haven to 
do anything differently here.
My final decision
for the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman