DRN-2226930
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say The Chorley and District Building Society mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1996, most likely during a meeting, at the 
same time as Mr and Mrs S applied for their mortgage. They increased the cover under 
the policy when they applied for a further advance in 1998. The PPI gave Mr and Mrs S 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. They paid a monthly amount for the PPI.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint, Mr and Mrs S disagreed so it was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here) Ive based my decision on the 
balance of probabilities. So on what I think is most likely given the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances. 
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive 
followed it here. As a copy of the policy document is no longer available I have based my 
analysis on the likely terms of a PPI policy sold at this time, as well as the terms of the 
policy from the nearest available date.
PPI sale in 1996
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs S say the PPI was sold as part of the mortgage agreement and wasnt 
necessary. I cant know what was said during the meeting and the society no longer has 
the paperwork from the sale. But thats not surprising or unreasonable given how long ago 
it was. 
It has been able to provide sample documentation to show that at this time unemployment 
cover was compulsory. And that this would have been made clear in the mortgage offer. 
But I dont find that the PPI was mis-sold just because unemployment cover was 
compulsory with this mortgage product.
It seems The Chorley and District Building Society was open about its conditions for 
offering this mortgage and it was allowed to decide the terms on which to offer its 
mortgages. If Mr and Mrs S hadnt wanted PPI, they couldve selected a different 
mortgage product, or gone to a different lender. Also, only unemployment cover was 
compulsory and they had accident and sickness cover too. This suggests to me they 
understood some elements were optional and they agreed to take the full PPI package.
The Chorley and District Building Society recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S so it had 
to check if it was right for them. I think it was based on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time. Mrs S was entitled to six months full pay and six months half 
pay if she was sick; Mr S was entitled to just statutory sick pay and they had savings worth 
less than three months salary. The PPI would have paid out in addition to any work 
benefits and for up to 12 months. It also gave them both 12 months redundancy cover. It 
would have allowed them to use any savings to cover other living expenses whilst not 
working, or to keep them intact for their future needs. So I think the PPI would have been 
useful for Mr and Mrs S if they were sick, had an accident or lost their job(s).
The Chorley and District Building Society also had to make sure Mr and Mrs S got the 
information they needed to decide if the PPI was right for them. Its possible the 
information wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But I dont think they would have made a 
different decision with better information. I dont know when they were told about the 
exclusions or the cost. But based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like they would have been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover. I note Mrs S had a pre-existing medical condition but from what shes told us, 
this didnt impact her day-to-day life. So I dont think she wouldve expected to need to 
make a related claim. And the PPI was competitively priced and apparently affordable.
Amend to PPI cover in 1998
Mr and Mrs S increased their cover under the policy when they took out a further advance in 
1998. I have considered this using the same criteria as the main sale.
There is no paperwork available to show how the amend was done, and Mr and Mrs S  
havent provided any recollections from this time. Without stronger evidence, I cant fairly 
conclude that The Chorley and District Building Society didnt make clear that this was 
optional, and Mr and Mrs S didnt agree to it.
There had been no change to Mr Ss circumstances by 1998. Mrs Ss employment had 
changed, and it seems she was working 25 hours in one permanent role, with a six-month 
sick pay entitlement, and around 8 hours in a temporary role. She told us she had £1550 in 
savings. But I think the cover was still suitable for them. I say this for the same reasons as I 
set out above. 
And under the likely terms, whilst it may have been difficult for Mrs S to claim for loss of 
income from her second temporary role, I dont think it would have been any harder for her 
to make a successful claim if she was unable to work in, or lost, her main job. So again I 
dont think with better information they would have made a different decision.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs S lost out because of any problems with the sale in 1996, 
or the amend to their cover in 1998.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs S paid on their policy  and whether The 
Chorley and District Building Society treated them unfairly. 
The Chorley and District Building Society has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ss 
policy was less than half of what they paid for each premium. Weve looked at how The 
Chorley and District Building Society has been working this out and based on what weve 
seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ss commission was less than half the cost of the 
policy. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell them about the commission  so I 
dont think The Chorley and District Building Society treated them unfairly. This means it 
doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs S back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman