DRN-3388206
Complaint
Mrs S has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) rejected her claim against it under Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background 
Mrs S bought solar panels for her home in 2016. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under 
the relevant legislation. In this case, Mrs S alleges that the installer misled Mrs S into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding.
Mrs Ss complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the 
documents from the time of sale (which Mrs S signed) made it clear that the benefits of the 
solar panel system would not cover the purchase price and therefore the system would not 
be immediately self-funding in the way Mrs S says she was led to believe. So, the 
adjudicator did not think a misrepresentation had taken place.
Mrs S disagreed. She said (through her representatives) that she was told not to worry about 
the figures in the documents and instead she relied on verbal representations made by the 
installer. She adds that thered be no reason for her to buy the system if she wasnt going to 
receive anything back from them. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our adjudicator, Ive been asked to make a
decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained
by the adjudicator, I do not uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mrs S was provided with the sales documents, as her representative sent 
us a copy. This document is the installers own sales document (i.e. not a document provided 
by the finance company to cover off details about the finance only) and I think it would likely 
have been part of its own sales process. It seems likely that Mrs S wouldve seen this at the 
time of sale, as she has signed the document.
The contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cash price of the solar panel system 
(£5,195) next to the total estimated year 1 benefit provided by the solar panel system 
(£279.39). Neither of these figures are hidden away in small print, but are, in my view clearly 
visible. It also specifies the solar panels would be bought using a 120-month (i.e. 10-year) 
loan from Ikano. I think its apparent, that an annual benefit amount of around £279 over 10 
years would not amount to anywhere near the purchase price of £5,195. 
And Mrs S has signed directly beneath this section  so, I think she wouldve, at the very 
least, seen this comparison when she signed the document. Overall, I think it would have 
been clear to her that the solar panels would not be self-funding in the way she says she 
was told they would be. 
Although Mrs S says she noticed the above discrepancy, she says she was told not to worry 
about the figures on the form. But given Mrs S was agreeing to a significant purchase, and 
also agreed to take out finance, I dont find that persuasive. At the very least, I would have 
expected her to have questioned why the figures showed so clearly that the estimated 
benefit received would not cover the cost of the panels if the panels were indeed self-
funding. And without an explanation beyond being told to ignore the figures, Im not 
persuaded that this is likely.  
As explained above, Mrs S did sign this document, so I think she likely saw the figures set 
out on it. So, I think its more likely that the figures and the sales document did not contradict 
Mrs Ss understanding at that time  that the panels would not be immediately self-funding in 
the way she now says she was led to believe. 
The document described above, in my view, clearly displays the expected first year benefit 
Mrs S would receive against the cash price  which shows the solar panels would not be 
immediately self-funding. Mrs S then went on to take out finance to fund the purchase of the 
solar panel system, further increasing her cost, as she agreed to pay not only the cash price 
of the solar panels, but also interest on top of the amount borrowed  this was all clearly set 
out in the credit agreement. 
As it was clear the benefit provided by the system would not be sufficient to cover the cash 
price of the solar panels, I think she ought reasonably to have known that the benefit 
provided by the system, would also not be sufficient to fund the monthly finance payments 
which included interest on top of the cost of the solar panels. 
Id like to reassure Mrs S that Ive carefully considered her testimony. But I find the 
documents from the time of sale to be more persuasive in terms of what information she was 
likely given at the time of sale. So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is 
unlikely there was a misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman