DRN-2124794
The complaint
Y is unhappy the service received from British Gas Insurance Limited and its agents under a 
home emergency policy.
Ill refer only to BG rather than its agents or representatives throughout this decision.
What happened
Y paid out for a new boiler but was still having problems with it so contacted BG. BG found 
that the boiler kept draining so there must be a leak somewhere. It arranged for investigation 
of the leak. In trying to fix the leak more damage was caused to the floor and the cellar. In 
the end BG did fix the leak but said as its contractors had caused the damage, theyd need 
to fix it. BG concluded by saying its contractors needed a chance to put things right. Y was 
unhappy with this and didnt want to deal with contractors any more. Y brought their 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said there had been difficulties with 
communication from both sides. She said Y not having constant access to a telephone 
hadnt helped matters. But she understood Ys frustration at being told the contractors had 
never spoken to Y when the evidence clearly showed they had. Our investigator felt the offer 
from BG to send back the contractor to fix any damage to the ceiling was a fair outcome. Our 
investigator accepted that the floor wouldnt be in need of repair as BG said this had dried 
out. But she said If Y sent in evidence to show there was still damage, she would ask for this 
damage to be repaired too. Y didnt accept this and asked for the complaint to be passed to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand the frustration Y feels in this case. The home emergency cover is with BG 
and Y expects BG to deal with any problems that come from that.
But BG has offered to send the contractors to deal with the required ceiling repairs and thats 
a reasonable request. Although I understand Y doesnt want the contractors back at the 
property, this is a remedy this service thinks is a fair and reasonable option. If the insurer 
wasnt offering such an option, we would be requiring it to, certainly in the first instance.
The difficulties with communication havent helped matters move along as quickly as they 
shouldve done. I accept Y isnt happy for the contractor to come back to fix the damage or 
be in contact, but I can only say that I think BG has made a fair and reasonable offer here. Y 
has been clear that the damage needs to be fixed and BG has confirmed its willing to get 
that arranged.
I dont think I can find BG entirely to blame for the problems getting in contact with Y. Its 
clear that attempts to get in touch were made. I think Y can either get in touch with the 
contractors to give options regarding times and dates when a repair can be carried out. If Y 
would rather be contacted, then Y will need to provide details of how they can be contacted 
or be available via the means used before to make the arrangements. Our investigator also 
suggested Y might prefer to put forward a representative to deal with matters on their behalf.
I think what BG said about the floor having dried out seems reasonable, but as our 
investigator suggested, if Y has evidence to show this work still needs to be done BG need 
to see it so it can arrange for this repair too.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against British Gas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman