DRN-3090652
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Ramsdens Financial Limited (Ramsdens) treated him unfairly 
when he pawned an item with them.
What happened
In the second half of 2018, Mr H pawned an item of jewellery with Ramsdens.  Ramsdens 
lent him £200.  The loan agreement was for a period of six months and expired in February 
2019.
Mr H didnt redeem the jewellery during the six months period or at the end.  So, under the 
terms of the agreement, Ramsdens became entitled to sell it to recoup what theyd lent him, 
and the interest that had built up.
Ramsdens wrote to Mr H, giving him notice of their intention to sell the jewellery and 
explaining how he could avoid that happening.  And they told Mr H the asking price for the 
jewellery would be £420.
Mr H couldnt redeem the jewellery, so Ramsdens decided to sell it.  They had it assessed 
by their centralised jewellery department, which valued the item at £699.  It hadnt sold by 
the time Ramsdens revalued all the jewellery following a rise in the price of gold.  
Ramsdens revalued the jewellery at £779 and it sold for this amount in July 2020.  There 
was a surplus of £49.14 after deducting the accrued interest and sale costs, which 
Ramsdens confirmed is due to Mr H.
Mr H complained to Ramsdens about the amount of the surplus and that interest had 
continued to be added to his debt.  Ramsdens investigated, but didnt accept the complaint.  
They explained to Mr H theyd written to him to let him know they intended to sell his 
jewellery and sent him reminders.  And they said the agreement Mr H had signed when hed 
pawned the jewellery had stated that interest would continue to accrue until the item was 
sold.  So Ramsdens said theyd acted within the terms and conditions of the agreement and 
they werent going to increase the surplus payment.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with Ramsdens response and brought his complaint to us.  In addition 
to what hed raised with Ramsdens, he told us he felt theyd undervalued the jewellery when 
lending him the £200  as well as overvaluing it when they came to sell it.
Our investigator considered it and concluded Ramsdens didnt need to do any more to 
resolve his complaint.  He said Ramsdens had made their intention to sell the jewellery 
clear.  And that interest would continue to accrue until then.
With regard to the value, he said Ramsdens had lent what Mr H had been comfortable to 
borrow  and if hed borrowed more, that wouldve increased the amount of interest payable.  
And he said that wed expect pawnbrokers to get the best possible price for an item  which 
can take time.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint.  But I dont think Ramsdens need to do 
anything more than theyve already offered to resolve his complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the loan agreement Mr H signed.  That set out how much he borrowed, the 
term of the loan and the rate of interest.  It includes a term which says:
if you do not redeem the property on expiry of the duration of this agreement we will
charge you a payment default fee of £0.00 plus interest at the rate stated above until
the amount due under this agreement is discharged in full, either by the passing of
property in pawn, its sale, redemption or other payment, in accordance with
Condition 3 overleaf.
Im satisfied from this that Mr H was told interest would continue to be added to the loan until 
the jewellery was sold.
Mr H has told us he felt the jewellery was undervalued when he pawned it.  I can see why he 
would draw that conclusion, as it was eventually sold for much more than he borrowed.  But 
Ramsdens werent buying the jewellery  they were valuing it to check it offered security for 
what they were willing to lend him, plus the interest that would build up.  
That totalled £318.80  which was more than the £235 Mr H says Ramsdens had offered 
him to buy the item.  Ive not seen any evidence that Mr H wanted to borrow more than £200.  
So I cant say that hes been disadvantaged by the way Ramsdens valued the item when Mr 
H pawned it.
Mr H also raised concerns about the valuation of the jewellery by Ramsdens when they 
came to sell it.  Ive thought about this.
Our investigator asked Ramsdens how why theyd offered the jewellery for sale at £699, 
when theyd told Mr H the asking price would be £420.  Ramsdens explained the £420 was 
an estimate made in the branch.  But the final assessment is made by their centralised 
jewellery department, which also arranges for cleaning and repairs before finally deciding the 
asking price.
So, while I understand why Mr H has questioned the difference in the two figures, Im 
satisfied by Ramsdens explanation for this.  Despite Mr Hs concerns, Ive seen no evidence 
that the jewellery was overvalued, or that led to a delay in the sale and increased interest.  
And Im satisfied that there was no detriment to Mr H in the sale taking some time because, 
although interest did build up, he didnt have to pay Ramsdens anything more  and, in fact, 
became entitled to the surplus of the final sale price.
Putting things right
Our investigator said in his view that Ramsdens had paid Mr H the £49.14 surplus sale 
proceeds.  Mr H has said hes not received that, as he didnt want to accept it before wed 
investigated his complaint. 
So, although I dont think Ramsdens need to do anything differently to resolve Mr Hs 
complaint, I do think they should pay him the £49.14 surplus from the sale of the jewellery  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint and directing Ramsdens 
Financial Limited to pay Mr H the £49.14 surplus from the sale of the jewellery he pawned 
with them.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman