DRN-2985511
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with how Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) have handled his 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr K first arranged a motor insurance policy with Admiral in November 2017. 
Mr K says he added a second driver in 2018 and in April 2019 he asked for the second 
driver to be removed. Mr K understood he would receive a refund in the policy premium due 
to this change. However, this didnt happen, and Mr K says he followed this up with Admiral 
on several occasions with no success. 
Mr K says he contacted Admiral in November 2019 asking about an extra charge and was 
told it was the renewal price. Mr K says he was told it wasnt possible to cancel the cover as 
14 days had passed since inception, but there would be an adjustment to the premium for 
his loyalty. 
Mr K says he expected a call back about this, but when it didnt happen he continued to call 
Admiral between December 2019 and February 2020. Mr K says he asked for the change to 
the policy to be actioned and learned during this time the policy was not providing 
comprehensive cover, but was limited to Third Party Fire and Theft (TPFT) only  he said 
this was wrong and had understood the cover was comprehensive. Mr K also learned the 
second driver was still on the policy. He says he also requested that his address be updated. 
When the changes Mr K asked for still werent actioned he says he contacted Admiral again 
and was told there were systems problems, so hed have to action the changes online 
himself. Mr K says he attempted to do this, but it didnt work.  
Mr Ks submissions are that around two months after this he contacted Admiral again and 
was told the system was down and nothing could be done. Mr K says at this point he was 
also told he would no longer be covered under the policy as his address was not correct  
despite his request to have his address updated some time ago. 
Matters escalated and Mr K says he cancelled his direct debit mandate (payment for the 
policy premium was being paid for through a credit arrangement). It seems due to non-
payment the policy was cancelled on 2 July 2020, leaving monies owing to Admiral. And    
Mr K says debt collectors contacted him about the outstanding amount. 
In his submissions Mr K has said Admiral were rude to him, he was not being provided with 
cover because his address had not been updated, and other changes to the policy had not 
been made  such as removing the second driver and adjusting the premium. Against this 
backdrop Mr K said Admiral had also unfairly increased his policy premium. He also told us 
that for some time the car had not been on the road anyway. 
During the course of these events Mr K raised complaints with Admiral. 
On 4 May 2020 Admiral issued Mr K with a response to his concerns about the auto-renewal 
of his policy in November 2019. They explained documents had been sent to Mr K prior to 
the renewal date and they had no records of Mr K requesting that he cancel the policy. 
Admirals response also noted Mr Ks concerns raised with a separate arm of the business, 
but as that was a separate issue they did not comment on this further. 
Mr Ks policy was cancelled on 2 July 2020. 
Admiral says Mr K emailed them in September 2020 and January 2021 saying that his 
complaint hadnt been dealt with properly. On 1 February 2021 Admiral responded to Mr Ks 
other concerns about making changes to the policy and the premium increase, and 
apologised for difficulties accessing services during the pandemic. Admiral noted it was not 
possible to properly investigate all of Mr Ks queries due to a lack of records on their part. No 
referral rights were given to our service in this response. 
As a resolution wasnt reached Mr K brought his complaint to our service on 23 February 
2021. Our investigator explained that under the rules this service follows, Mr K had brought 
his complaint about the auto-renewal and cancellation of the policy too late for our service to 
consider, but we could look at Mr Ks concerns about the difficulties he had experienced 
making changes to the policy and about the premium price increase to his policy. Mr K 
accepted this and so did Admiral, therefore our investigator went on to consider the parts of 
the complaint our service could look into. 
The investigator did not uphold Mr Ks complaint. They explained insurers were able to 
decide how much they would charge for their policies and it wasnt something our service 
could get involved with. The investigator let Mr K know theyd seen information from Admiral 
that supported he had not been treated differently to any other Admiral customers in terms of 
how they had approached working out the cost of his premium. The investigator also noted 
Admiral had explained the impact the pandemic had on their ability to provide their services 
which seemingly had contributed to the challenge Mr K had raised about being able to make 
changes to his policy. That said, the investigator noted there were different ways of 
contacting Admiral during this time and he could have kept trying the systems to update the 
changes to the policy he wanted to make.
Mr K strongly disagreed with the investigator  he said his policy had always been fully 
comprehensive and that he had proof of this. Mr K said he was unable to make policy 
changes for six months, not a few days. Mr K also questioned what information the 
investigator had relied on in order to reach their conclusions  he did not believe that Admiral 
was unable to provide any evidence of phone calls that had taken place. 
As a resolution could not be reached, the case has been referred to me to decide. Before 
reaching this decision I asked both parties for further submissions, including asking Mr K for 
details about when his car was off the road, when he moved address and any evidence to 
show his attempts to contact Admiral. Copies of Mr Ks policy schedules since 2017 were 
also sent to Mr K. And Admiral was asked for clarification around some of the submissions 
theyd already sent to our service and to search their records once more for any further 
records associated with Mr Ks policy. 
Admiral confirmed there was a call on 23 November 2018 in which there was a request to 
remove the commuting part of the cover from the policy. But no other records were made 
available. Admiral clarified that despite Mr Ks submissions he was told his cover was no 
longer in place because his address had not been updated, Admiral was still insuring him 
until the policy was cancelled on 2 July 2020. Admiral explained having the wrong address 
did not automatically invalidate the policy, but the policy information explained any failure to notify of changes to the policy could mean a claim may not be paid  and so if a claim was 
submitted, it would have been investigated into why the address had not been updated. 
Mr K didnt provide any further submissions or evidence.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, my considerations are limited to Mr Ks concerns about making changes to the 
policy and the cost of his policy premium. This decision does not deal with any concerns    
Mr K may have about debt collecting. 
Having reviewed everything, my conclusions are broadly in line with those reached by our 
investigator. 
Ive first looked at Mr Ks concerns around the changes he wanted to make to the policy. 
Unfortunately, given the limited information available to me Ive therefore had to take 
everything into account to decide what most likely happened on the balance of probability. 
I would note that the copies of the policy schedules shared with Mr K mentioned above show 
that from 13 November 2017 when the policy was incepted until the time the policy was 
cancelled on 2 July 2020, Mr Ks level of cover had always been TPFT. Theres nothing to 
support Mr K ever had comprehensive cover in place as he has suggested. The policy 
schedules also show Mr K and Ms C were both insured to drive the car throughout this time 
as well  so it doesnt appear Ms C was added at a later date. 
Mr K has said he wanted to remove Ms C as a named driver. While I understand Mr K feels 
strongly about his attempts to make this change to the policy  and then the later change of 
address - there is limited evidence available to show what happened. 
My conclusions arent to discount Mr Ks submissions of his attempts to make changes to his 
policy but Im mindful the renewal documents were issued to Mr K on 18 October 2019, 
before the policy was due to end in November 2019 and before the pandemic had started. 
Admirals system notes show the renewal cover letter was emailed to Mr K on 18 October 
2019 and the associated paperwork was available through the portal. So I think its more 
likely than not Mr K had this information available to him  and theres no record of him 
querying the details of the policy before the pandemic began to change them.
As Admiral have explained, the pandemic brought with it a challenge for many organisations 
in creating a need to adapt quickly with staff and systems to continue providing a service for 
customers. Admiral notes they experienced problems during this time so their records are 
limited, but theyve also said their systems were soon up and running for their customers. In 
the circumstances I dont think its unreasonable to suggest Mr K could have used one of the 
other avenues  email or webchat  or continued to try online and by phone where possible. 
Admiral say their records show on 9 April 2020 Mr K requested to change the direct debit 
payment date. There is not much detail around this, so its difficult to know what else may 
have been mentioned in this exchange. But theres nothing to suggest Mr K asked for any 
other changes to the policy at that time either. 
While disappointing that there is not more detail around some of the chronology of these 
events, on balance Ive not seen enough to say that Admiral purposefully prevented Mr K 
from being able to make changes to his policy. The notes Admiral does have available do not support what Mr K has said about contacting Admiral. And unfortunately Mr K has been 
unable to provide any more evidence around his attempts to engage with Admiral about 
these matters. So at this time and based on the balance of evidence and submissions 
available to me, there is not enough for me to say Admiral has done something wrong. 
And while Ive noted what Mr K has said about not being covered because hed changed 
address, Admiral have clarified this would not automatically have cancelled Mr Ks cover  
rather, they wouldve investigated any claim if one had been made before deciding whether it 
would be successful or not. As Mr K did not make a claim during this time, I cant say what 
wouldve happened, but Im satisfied Mr Ks policy was still in place until 2 July 2020 when it 
was cancelled. 
Ive also considered Mr Ks concerns about the pricing of his policy. It is not for this service 
to interfere with the commercial decision making of the insurer  that is, our service cannot 
tell the insurer how much to charge a customer for their insurance policy. Our role is to see 
whether the insurer has treated their customer fairly and again, while there is limited 
information available, Ive not seen anything to make me think Admiral have treated Mr K 
any differently to other customers. The changes in his policy pricing were largely due to 
claims incidents. And as our investigator noted, Mr Ks policy premium did go down slightly 
in 2019. So overall, theres not enough for me to say Mr K has been treated unfairly here. 
I recognise Mr Ks frustrations about this matter. And it may help to remind him our service is 
an informal dispute resolution service, set up to decide complaints based on what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of each individual case. Our service is not the regulator, so 
we do not interfere with a businesss processes or commercial decision making and we do 
not fine or punish businesses. So, in this case while I realise Mr K will be unhappy with the 
outcome of this decision, based on the evidence and submissions available Ive not seen 
enough to say that Admiral has done something wrong here with regards to the parts of the 
complaint that I have been able to look at. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman