DRN-3702402
The complaint
Miss Ts complaint concerns how Aviva Insurance Limited handled a legal expenses claim.
References to Aviva include the actions of its agent that handled the claim on its behalf.
References to Miss T include the actions of her appointed representative.
What happened
The factual circumstances of the background to Miss Ts complaint are detailed and with a 
history of around nine years. A summary of the background is as follows:
Miss T had a commercial policy in 2013 underwritten by a different company (not 
Aviva), which ended in 2014.
In 2015 she started a new commercial policy underwritten by Aviva.
A legal dispute was apparently being dealt with under the 2013 policy and an issue 
arose in 2021  Miss T set out the nature of the dispute in a claim form giving details 
of the 2013 policy.
Aviva initially rejected the claim on the basis that it related to the 2013 policy but then 
decided to look at it under its 2015 policy. And Aviva rejected it saying the 2015 
policy didnt cover contract disputes, which the proposed claim concerned.
Miss T complained that the claim should be looked at as a continuation of the 2013 
policy to which Aviva offered Miss T £250 compensation for the confusion. 
Our investigator explained why he thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld and 
why the compensation offered was fair.
He also said that a new complaint regarding the 2013 policy would need to be set-up 
and offered to do that, but Avivas agent had caused confusion and thought £250 
compensation was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss T has been adamant from the start that her claim is a continuance of the matter being 
dealt with under the 2013 policy. Like the investigator I agree with that, meaning the 
underwriter of the 2013 policy will need to assess her claim and give her a response so 
Miss T can consider her next steps. 
It's not in dispute that Avivas policy is irrelevant here  it doesnt cover the type of dispute 
that Miss T has, and the handling of the claim lacked clarity, caused confusion, and didnt 
clearly address the issue Miss T raised. Im satisfied the compensation offered of £250 fairly 
reflects the inconvenience caused to her in having to consistently point out Avivas error and 
delay in dealing with matter clearly and promptly.
My final decision
I am aware that Aviva Insurance Limited has made an offer to pay £250. I conclude that 
such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that Aviva should 
pay Miss T £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman