DRN-3714566
The complaint
Mr I complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct (first direct) declined his 
transaction twice on 11 March 2022.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. first direct has accepted our Investigators opinion, but Mr I disagreed. Other than the 
reason for the declined transaction, and the amount of compensation being offered, the facts 
are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for these reasons:
On the evidence, Im satisfied first direct have demonstrated there was no block on 
Mr Is card at the time, and that no authorisation presented to first direct on its 
systems, so it could not have actively declined the payments. 
first direct have speculated that the card was either damaged or that there was a 
signal issue with the terminal used at the time. 
Im not persuaded that that the card itself was damaged - there is evidence which 
shows Mr I used his card before and after the event successfully.
I dont doubt Mr I was able to complete the transaction using another card held with 
another bank, but this fact cant eliminate the possibility that there was a signal issue 
with the terminal at the time of the attempted payments. There is no evidence 
available to me that suggests the reason for the failed transactions was an error 
made by first direct.
As a goodwill gesture first direct have paid Mr I £15 for the inconvenience and 
distress he experienced by the transaction failing twice. 
As Im not persuaded first direct have made an error, I think in the circumstance this 
offer is a fair one  Mr I has confirmed there was no financial loss and he was able to 
make the payment with an alternative card immediately after. Without an error on first 
directs part, it wouldnt be reasonable to expect it to compensate Mr I for any 
distress or inconvenience he suffered.
I conclude that first direct do not have to do any more to resolve the complaint.
For these reasons, I am not upholding Mr Is complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should not be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman