DRN-3363051
The complaint
Mr T complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) unfairly invoiced him for 
£7,500 in connection with its recommendation that he maintain safeguarded benefits in his 
former employers defined benefits pension scheme (DB scheme). 
What happened
Mr T had built up safeguarded benefits in his former employers DB scheme. The cash 
equivalent transfer value of those benefits was about £675,000. He was interested in 
transferring this to a private pension arrangement so that he could convert them into flexible 
benefits to achieve several financial planning objectives. In addition to his safeguarded 
benefits, Mr T had a personal pension plan (PPP) and income drawdown plan with other 
providers. Since the transfer value of Mr Ts safeguarded benefits was greater than £30,000, 
he was legally required to obtain appropriate independent advice. This led to him contacting 
Aviva for advice. 
Avivas advice process
Aviva told Mr T its default starting position is a pension transfer is unlikely to be suitable and 
that it had a two-stage advice process: abridged advice and, if he chose it, full advice. It 
explained the aim of its abridged advice service was to identify those clients for whom a 
pension transfer was clearly not suitable and so they would avoid paying the higher charge 
for full advice. Alternatively, it explained its abridged advice service may conclude, based on 
the limited information and analysis carried out, its unclear whether he would benefit from a 
pension transfer and that further detailed analysis conducted under the full advice service 
would be required to determine this  where the outcome would be a recommendation to 
either transfer or remain in the DB scheme.
The abridged advice charge was £800. The full advice charge was £7,500. The abridged 
advice charge wouldnt be payable if Mr T chose the full advice service. Mr T signed a form 
confirming that he understood and accepted Avivas two-stage advice process and the 
associated advice charges.
Avivas advice to Mr T
Aviva completed a fact find meeting with Mr T during which it recorded details of his personal 
and financial circumstances. It then went on to provide its abridged advice service to him. 
Aviva concluded it was unclear whether Mr T would benefit from a pension transfer and that 
further detailed analysis conducted under the full advice service would be required to 
determine this. It explained to Mr T that he had the option to proceed to full advice if he 
wanted a personal recommendation to either transfer or remain in the DB scheme. Mr T 
agreed to proceed with the full advice service. This led to Aviva issuing a suitability report to 
him in which it recommended that he do the following:
Maintain his safeguarded benefits in the DB scheme with a view to drawing an 
annual scheme pension of £16,558 from 63 together with a tax-free cash lump sum 
of £110,390; and
In the meantime, transfer the value of his PPP and income drawdown plan with other 
providers, which had a combined transfer value of about £341,000, to a new Aviva 
pension portfolio plan with a view to taking the maximum tax-free cash lump sum 
available of about £18,500 and monthly income of £1,041.66 payable immediately 
and to be cancelled when he would start to draw the annual scheme pension of 
£16,558 from the DB scheme at 63.
In summary, Aviva advised Mr T to maintain his safeguarded benefits in the DB scheme 
because it determined that the scheme pension and tax-free cash lump sum payable would 
meet his recorded retirement income and capital needs without taking the risks associated 
with a pension transfer. In Avivas opinion, there wasnt a clear financial advantage in Mr T 
relinquishing his safeguarded benefits to achieve his objectives.
This complaint 
Mr T was very unhappy about Avivas recommendation to maintain his safeguarded benefits 
in the DB scheme. He said it wasnt the outcome he expected or had been led to believe 
during verbal discussions with Aviva. He believed his personal and financial circumstances 
strongly indicated that a pension transfer was in his best interests, so was shocked when 
Aviva advised against it. In his view, he believed that Aviva knew all along that it would 
advise against the pension transfer because of the high regulatory risk attached to such 
transactions and so it acted unfairly when it put him through its full advice process and 
invoiced him for £7,500. 
Mr T didnt accept Avivas recommendation to transfer the value of his PPP and income 
drawdown plan with other providers to a new Aviva pension portfolio plan. And as at the date 
of this decision, Mr T hasnt settled Avivas invoice of £7,500. To put things right, he wants 
this service to tell Aviva to change its approach to providing pension transfer advice.
Aviva didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. It was satisfied it had provided the appropriate 
information to him at the relevant points in the advice process including its default starting 
position, an explanation of how its two-stage advice process worked and the costs 
associated with this. Notwithstanding this, it remained satisfied that the recommendation to 
remain in the DB scheme was suitable.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said, in 
summary, the following:
She was satisfied that Aviva had made Mr T aware of its default starting position that 
a pension transfer was unlikely to be suitable;
The information and analysis available at the time of the abridged advice service 
didnt suggest to her that a pension transfer was clearly unsuitable for Mr T. On the 
contrary, his personal and financial circumstances suggested that a pension transfer 
could potentially be suitable but this would only be determined following a full and 
proper analysis;
There was no evidence that Aviva misled Mr T to believe that if he proceeded with 
the full advice process that it would provide a positive recommendation to transfer. 
On the contrary, the evidence showed that the outcome of that process would be a 
recommendation to either transfer or remain in the DB scheme. And Mr T signed 
paperwork at the time confirming that he understood this;There was no evidence to suggest that Aviva had an internal process that prevented 
it from recommending a pension transfer and so she didnt agree it knew all along it 
would advise against the pension transfer, as alleged by Mr T;
She was satisfied that the recommendation to remain in the DB scheme was suitable 
in the circumstances; and
She didnt think Aviva had made an error or treated Mr T unfairly. This was because 
it clearly explained its default starting position, explained how its two-stage process 
worked and the associated costs, and then ultimately provided a suitable 
recommendation that he remain in the DB scheme. So she said that she wouldnt be 
asking Aviva to do anything further. 
Mr T didnt accept our investigators opinion and provided additional comments. He 
maintained his view that Avivas advice model is designed so that it always advises against a 
pension transfer and that its ultimate motive is to charge the full advice fee only. In support 
of his position, he asked this service to establish how many pension transfers Aviva has 
carried out within the past 10 years.
Our investigator considered Mr Ts additional comments but wasnt persuaded to change her 
opinion. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been referred to me for 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single 
point raised by Mr T and Aviva. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I 
dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Ive considered all the evidence 
afresh including Mr Ts comments in response to our investigators assessment. Ive 
separated my findings below under separate headings to make them easier to follow.
Suitability of Avivas recommendation 
The FCA sets the rules and guidance that businesses must follow when advising clients on 
pension transfers. Businesses, like Aviva, are required to adhere to the rules because the 
FCA considers safeguarded benefits to be valuable. The overarching requirement, as set out 
in the FCAs rules, is that a business must take the necessary steps to establish suitability 
and make a recommendation in the clients best interests. Further, based on its regulatory 
guidance, businesses advising on pension transfers must start by assuming that the existing 
DB scheme is suitable and only to recommend a transfer, which converts safeguarded 
benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients best interests. 
The FCAs default starting position means that businesses have a high hurdle to overcome 
to show that a pension transfer is clearly in their clients best interests. 
I understand the reasons why Mr T wanted the ability to access flexible capital sums and 
income during retirement to achieve various objectives, and to leave a capital sum on death to his wife. However, having considered the evidence, Im content that Aviva provided a 
suitable recommendation that he remain in the DB scheme. Ill explain why. 
Mr T was 62 and recorded as being in good health. Other than his pension savings 
mentioned in this decision, he had limited other liquid assets in his name upon which he 
could rely. Avivas detailed analysis showed that his recorded objectives could be met by 
remaining in the DB scheme. He was fully retired and so didnt have the ability to build up 
additional retirement provision. Transferring to a private pension plan wouldve led to him 
relinquishing guaranteed, increasing income for life in exchange for unlimited downside risk 
and concentrated his entire private pension savings on a defined contribution basis where 
the benefits received arent guaranteed but instead based on investment performance. In 
addition, the analysis carried out by Aviva showed that transferring wouldve likely led to a 
significant LTA tax charge being applied to the transferred money at some point in the future. 
In contrast, because of the way scheme pensions are valued, remaining in the DB scheme 
wouldve likely avoided a LTA tax charge.
Avivas recommendation was based on a blended approach  it suggested a course of 
action where Mr T would use the combined value of his defined contribution pension savings 
of about £341,000, his safeguarded benefits and state pension to meet his objectives. This 
diversified approach reduced the overall risk for Mr T. In conclusion, based on the full 
analysis carried out by Aviva, I cannot see that there were any compelling reasons at that 
time for Mr T to relinquish his safeguarded benefits to achieve his objectives.
Was Avivas advice model unfair?
Mr T said that Avivas advice model is designed so that it always advises against a pension 
transfer and that its ultimate motive is to charge the full advice fee only. And so Aviva acted 
unfairly when it put him through its full advice process and invoiced him for £7,500 because 
it knew he wouldnt achieve the outcome he wanted  a positive recommendation to transfer.
I havent seen any evidence that supports Mr Ts assertion. Rather, the evidence indicates 
that Aviva acted openly and honestly throughout its dealings with Mr T. The concept of the 
abridged advice service was to identify early on if a pension transfer was clearly not suitable 
for Mr T and so avoid him having to pay the higher charge for full advice. I think that there 
were some indicators that a pension transfer could potentially be suitable for Mr T. And so I 
dont think it was unreasonable, after he agreed to pay the full advice charge, for Aviva to put 
him through its full advice process. That Aviva ultimately advised against the pension 
transfer doesnt mean it acted unfairly. Theres nothing to suggest to me that it was a pre-
determined outcome that Aviva would ultimately advise against a pension transfer. In my 
view, Avivas advice model didnt lead to an unfair outcome for Mr T.
Mr T signed a form confirming that he understood and accepted Avivas two-stage advice 
process and the associated charges. The information provided to Mr T was clear and so Im 
satisfied he made an informed decision in advance of the advice being provided. I consider 
that this was a legal agreement entered into by both parties and I do not intend to interfere 
with it or ask Aviva to alter or reduce it because Mr T didnt agree with the recommendation. 
I think its worth noting here that the full advice charge wasnt limited to advice on just Mr Ts 
safeguarded benefits. Part of that charge was in connection with providing advice on his 
PPP and income drawdown plan with other providers. 
To put things right, he wants this service to tell Aviva to change its approach to providing 
pension transfer advice. He also asked this service to establish how many pension transfers 
Aviva has carried out within the past 10 years. I must inform Mr T that this service isnt the 
regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes or how they 
operate generally. Thats the job of the FCA. We were set up as an informal and free alternative to the courts to deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. I cannot compel Aviva to provide the information Mr T has requested. In any 
event, the provision of such information wouldnt change my opinion about the suitability of 
the recommendation he received. Any concerns Mr T has about Avivas approach to 
providing pension transfer advice should be referred to the FCA.
Conclusion
As at the date of this decision, Mr T hasnt accepted the recommendation or settled Avivas 
invoice of £7,500. I understand that he was upset and frustrated when Aviva advised against 
a pension transfer because he didnt get outcome he wanted. But this doesnt mean Aviva 
made an error or treated him unfairly simply because he didnt agree with the outcome. For 
the reasons explained above, its my view that Aviva acted in Mr Ts best interests when it 
advised against the pension transfer. Mr T was placed into an informed position regarding 
the charges in advance of the advice being provided. So Im not persuaded that Aviva made 
an error or acted unfairly in this regard either. Because of these reasons, I dont consider it 
would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to direct Aviva to alter or reduce 
its invoice  or to take any further action in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman