DRN-3970325
The complaint
Miss D, represented by a third party, complains that FCE Bank Plc irresponsibly granted her 
hire purchase agreements that she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In November 2017, Miss D acquired a new car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
FCE Bank. Miss D was required to make an initial payment of around £179 followed by 47 
payments of around £169, with a final optional payment of around £3,604 if she wanted to 
own the car at the end of the agreement. Miss D ended this agreement and took out a new 
hire purchase agreement to acquire a new car in February 2020.
The February 2020 agreement required Miss D to make an initial payment of around £254 
followed by 47 payments of around £244 with a final optional payment of around £6,546 if 
she wanted to own the car at the end of the agreement. 
Miss D says that FCE Bank didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, 
it would have seen the agreements werent affordable. FCE Bank didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out thorough assessments which included credit risk and affordability assessments.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought FCE Bank didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreements.
Miss D didnt agree and so this case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
FCE Bank will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
FCE Bank hasnt provided a copy of the credit check it completed. Ive therefore relied on a 
copy of the credit report supplied by Miss D. This credit report is dated November 2022 and 
so while I think this gives a reasonable indication of what FCE Bank would likely have seen 
before the February 2020 hire purchase agreement was provided, it only gives very limited 
information regarding the period prior to the November 2017 application and so is unlikely to 
give a clear picture of what would have been seen at that time. 
At the time of the February 2020 application Miss Ds credit report shows that Miss D had 
defaulted on a credit card account around a year previously and had missed occasional 
payments on some of her other credit commitments. It therefore would have been 
proportionate for FCE Bank to have got a more thorough understanding of Miss Ds financial 
circumstances before lending.
As I do not have the details from FCE Banks checks prior to the finance being provided, Ive 
considered what FCE Bank would likely have found out if it had completed reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks. Weve asked Miss D to provide us with evidence of her 
financial circumstances at the time the lending was taken out. Unfortunately, she hasnt been 
able to provide evidence to fairly determine what proportionate checks would likely have 
shown FCE Bank before the November 2017 agreement was provided. But she has 
provided copies of her bank statements for the months leading up to the 2020 agreement.
I cant be certain what Miss D would have told FCE Bank had it asked about her regular 
expenditure. I dont think FCE Bank needed to request bank statements, but in the absence 
of anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in Miss Ds 
statements as an indication of what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements prior to the February 2020 application. These 
show that Miss D had monthly income in the months leading up to the agreement of around 
£1,440 (although this dropped the month before the agreement was taken out it then 
increased again in subsequent months). Looking at Miss Ds regular committed monthly 
expenditure I can see she had credit commitments (including the payments for the February 
2020 agreement) of around £650. Miss D says she was living at home and paying rent there 
and also had other bills, and costs for food and transport. However, taking this all into 
account it would still leave Miss D with around £250 a month as disposable income. Given 
this I do not find that had further information been gathered about Miss Ds costs, these 
would have shown the agreement to have been unaffordable.
In conclusion, I do not find that I have enough evidence to say that the November 2017 
agreement should have been considered to be unaffordable. I note the payments on this 
agreement were maintained until it was settled. Having looked through evidence provided 
from around the time of the February 2020 agreement, I do not find I can say the required 
checks would have shown the agreement to have been unaffordable. For these reasons, Im 
not persuaded that FCE Bank acted unfairly in approving the finance agreements. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman