DRN-4113815
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt provide enough notice of the amount due 
to settle her loan.
In bringing this complaint Mrs A is represented by her husband. For ease Ive reading, Ive 
simply referred to Mrs A throughout this decision. 
What happened
Mrs A took out a loan with Barclays in October 2019 for £6,800. The loan was taken over 36 
months and was due to end in October 2022. The monthly repayment was £256.28 including 
interest. 
In April 2020 Mrs A took a three-month payment holiday under the temporary covid relief 
guidance set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). When the payment holiday 
ended, Mrs A continued to make her normal contractual payments. But on 11 January 2023 
Barclays wrote to Mrs A to say that a final payment of £948.20 was due on 26 January 2023. 
 
Mrs A says she knew that the missed payments would need to be paid back but she thought 
the loan term was being extended and that she was paying the additional interest over the 
full term. And she was shocked that Barclays only provided two weeks notice of the final 
payment amount due given it was significantly higher than her normal monthly payment. 
So, she complained to Barclays about the short notice it provided. Barclays didnt uphold the 
complaint. It said it wrote Mrs A in July 2020 to say that the final payment would be more 
than normal. 
Unhappy with the response, Mrs A referred the complaint to this service. At this point she 
added that she was unhappy with the service she had received from Barclays since 
contacting it about the matter and that Barclays had not explained what options were 
available to her to help her repay the final balance. She explained that the whole matter had 
caused distress and inconvenience at a time when experiencing some health concerns.
 
One of investigators looked into the complaint. He acknowledged that Barclays had told   
Mrs A  in July 2020, that her final payment would be more than the normal amount. But he 
thought Barclays should have provided Mrs A with more notice of the final payment given the 
amount of it. And, in not doing so, he thought Mrs A had been caused distress and 
inconvenience in having to find the funds at short notice. So, he recommended that Barclays 
should pay Mrs A £150 compensation.
Mrs A accepted the outcome. But Barclays disagreed with it. It didnt think that the final 
amount should have come as a surprise to Mrs A as it had told her  when the payment 
holiday ended, that the loan term was being extended and the final payment would be higher 
than the normal payment. Barclays asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. So, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.      
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A hasnt disputed that she was required to pay the three payments she missed in 2020 
following a covid payment holiday. Nor has she disputed the final amount needed to settle 
the loan. Rather the crux of her complaint is that Barclays didnt provide enough notice of the 
final amount due which caused distress and inconvenience given it was over three times her 
normal monthly payment.  
I understand that since the complaint has been with this service, Mrs A has been able to 
repay what was owed. And Barclays has confirmed that Mrs As credit file has not been 
negatively impacted due to this matter. So, what I need to decide is whether Barclays treated 
Mrs A fairly by providing sufficient notice of the final payment amount given the individual 
circumstances of this complaint. 
When introducing the temporary covid guidance (and subsequent updates) the FCA set out 
some general principles that a lender needed to take into account.  Under the section 
Customers able to resume full payments the FCA said:
If the firm permits the customer to repay the deferred amounts over a longer term, it should 
give the customer adequate information that explains they could pay more over the lifetime 
of the agreement.    
 
Barclays has provided a copy of the letter it sent to Mrs A when the covid payment holiday 
ended in July 2020. This says:
When your monthly loan payments restart, we wont increase them to cover that additional 
amount, so there will be a one-off sum to be repaid at the end of the loan, once all of your 
monthly payments are complete, including interest that will have been charged on it as 
normal.  
So, while Mrs A may have forgotten receiving the letter, Im satisfied that Barclays did 
explain that there would be a higher monthly payment at the end of the extended term. That 
said, the letter doesnt give any indication of how much that final payment would be. And I 
havent seen anything else that would have made Mrs A adequately aware of what the final 
payment would be. 
Having thought about this carefully. I think the important factor here is the amount of the final 
payment that was due in Mrs As situation and the length of time that had passed since     
Mrs As payment holiday ended. The final payment was more three times the normal 
monthly payment and well over a year since the payment holiday ended. And Im persuaded 
that finding out the amount of the final payment with only two weeks notice and then having 
to raise the funds to cover the payment in that short timeframe would have been distressing 
and inconvenient for Mrs A. So, I find that Barclays could have done more than it did to put  
Mrs A on notice of the amount she would need to pay sooner than it did. In not doing so it 
didnt treat her fairly given the individual circumstances of this matter. 
Our investigator recommended that Barclays should pay Mrs A £150, and for the reasons 
given above I think this amount is fair.   
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs As complaint.Barclays Bank UK PLC should now pay Mrs A £150 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman