DRN-4189742
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc wont partially refund him for flights he 
bought using his credit card.
What happened
In May 2022, Mr L bought flights for him and his family with an airline (E) through a travel 
agent (M). There were two flights. The first was on 23 December 2022 and the second on 
31 December 2022. Both flights were originally due to be operated by E. Mr L used his 
National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) credit card to pay for these flights at a cost of 
£3,397.99.
M sent Mr L an e-mail on 12 November 2022 saying that E had rescheduled the first flight 
and that theyd asked M to offer him a choice of either an alternative flight with a different 
operator or the possibility of a refund. If E approved the refund, M would deduct a service fee 
of £13 per person.
Mr L accepted the first option although that was mainly because the second option wasnt 
viable as he had already booked hotels and excursions for him and his family. Mr L and his 
family then undertook both flights.
Mr L contacted M as he wasnt happy but was told they didnt have a complaints team and 
that he needed to contact E about what had happened. Mr L then complained to Natwest 
stating that the alternative flight had been provided by a budget airline and the standard was 
not what he had originally anticipated and expected. In particular, there was no 
entertainment system on board, the seating was uncomfortable and the food was very basic. 
Mr L asked Natwest to refund him £1,699 of the total cost of £3,397.99.
Natwest replied saying, in summary, that they werent able to raise a chargeback for the 
refund and that Mr L didnt meet the necessary criteria to raise a claim under Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). So, Mr L referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. He said, in summary, that the necessary 
criteria for Section 75 hadnt been met and that there were no chargeback rules applicable to 
what had happened to Mr L.
Mr L didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 24 May 2023, in which I said the following:
This complaint is about Natwest, as Mr Ls credit card provider. Its not about M, who arent 
a financial services provider and, as such, doesnt fall within my remit.
Mr L essentially complains about the standard of service that he anticipated when he booked 
both flights, which werent provided in the first flight because it was provided by a budget 
airline.
There are typically two avenues here that Natwest as the provider of credit could have 
considered.
Chargeback
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute with a merchant, as Mr L does 
here, Natwest (as the card issuer) can attempt a chargeback. The process involves the card 
issuer disputing payments made on the card through a dispute resolution scheme operated 
by the companies which run the card networks, which in this case is Mastercard. I would 
normally expect a credit card issuer to attempt a chargeback if there was a reasonable 
prospect of this achieving a successful outcome.
Natwest didnt attempt a chargeback in this instance and says this was because there were 
no chargeback rights for the standard of service Mr L received in respect of the first flight.
Its clear that there was a change to the schedule of the first flight as E could no longer 
provide that to Mr L. However, that service was still provided to Mr L and on the originally 
agreed date and at the originally agreed time. Es terms and conditions, as set out on their 
website, also allowed for changes in aircraft and for them to supplement their fleet with 
aircraft operated for them by another airline. In addition, their terms and conditions state that 
they will try to ensure that passengers receive the same level of in-flight entertainment as 
had been advertised for their flight but couldnt guarantee that this would be possible. This 
seems likely to have been a fairly common term for such airlines. But ultimately E was able 
to fulfil the contract as promised. E also ensured, via M, that Mr L was offered the option of 
not accepting the flight change in the e-mail he received in November 2022.
So, with all this in mind, I dont think it was unreasonable for Natwest to have declined to 
raise a chargeback as, in my view, there wasnt a reasonable prospect of success. As such, 
I am satisfied that Natwest dealt with Mr Ls chargeback claim reasonably.
Section 75
In deciding what I think is fair and reasonable I need to have regard to, amongst other 
things, any relevant law. In this case, the relevant law is Section 75 which says that, in 
certain circumstances, if Mr L paid for goods and services, in part or whole, on his Natwest 
credit card, and there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier, Natwest 
can be held responsible.
For a valid claim under Section 75 there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) 
relationship in place. This normally means the person who owns the credit card account 
needs to have a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a company they 
have paid using their credit card.
With that in mind, Mr Ls complaint about the first flight being changed and the standard of 
the alternative flight being unreasonable is a claim against E for a breach of contract and not 
M. But Mr L cant make a claim against Natwest for this because he didnt pay E. Mr L paid 
M for the flights. So, there isnt a valid DCS relationship in place with E.
However, I do think there is a DCS relationship in place for the services provided by M. So, if 
I find that M breached their contract with Mr L or misrepresented this, then Mr L would 
potentially be entitled to compensation.
Ive looked at Ms terms and conditions as set out on their website. These set out that M acts 
as an intermediary in which they mediate travel services (which in Mr Ls case were the 
flights he booked) and that they would contact their customers if these change. Crucially, the terms and conditions also set out that they dont assume any responsibility for the travel 
services or make any representations about the suitability or quality of those services. And 
that any claim in respect of that has to be directed to the service provider, which in this case 
was E. Additionally, clause 3.4.2 of Ms terms and conditions states: we have no control 
over airlines schedule changes.
Ms terms and conditions also state that they would contact their customer in case of any 
change to the schedule, which is what they did when they e-mailed Mr L about this.
So, Im satisfied that M contracted to provide a booking service for Mr L and that they 
provided that service to him. As such, I dont think M breached their contract with Mr L. And I 
dont think M misrepresented any of the services they provided bearing in mind they were 
not responsible, and didnt assume liability for, the change to the carrier who provided the 
first flight.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, my provisional decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I invited Mr L and Natwest to provide any further evidence or submissions to me. 
Natwest replied saying that they agreed with my provisional decision.  Mr L didnt agree. He 
said, in summary, that 
he had no choice but to accept the change to the carrier as it was too short notice to 
consider changing his holiday itinerary and that doing so would come at a high cost
M didnt mention the changes to the in-flight services and had a duty to make him 
aware of this
M should have adjusted the ticket price because of the difference to the in-flight 
services
if this type of issue wasnt investigated and resolved, any airline could charge 
extortionate prices and then change this at the last minute.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand the points Mr L has made in response to my provisional decision. And I 
appreciate why he felt he had no choice but to accept the change of carrier. However, I dont 
agree that M had a duty to explain any changes to the in-flight services to him or that they 
should have adjusted the price. I doubt M would have been aware of anything specific that 
had changed bearing in mind the flight dates and time hadnt changed.  And I havent seen 
anything from E to M that set out any such changes. 
Mr L was obviously aware that the carrier had changed from E and so could have asked M 
to enquire on his behalf about any changes or anything that he wanted clarifying that he felt 
was important to him. M could potentially have contacted E at that point and perhaps an 
agreement could have been reached. Thats not to say that this would have happened, but I 
think Mr L had the opportunity to ask M about this. 
Having considered Mr Ls further submissions, and the submissions sent to us prior to my 
provisional decision, Im not persuaded that M breached their contract with Mr L or 
misrepresented anything to him. So, it follows Mr Ls complaint against Natwest in respect of 
Section 75 wont succeed. I also am still of the view that it wasnt unreasonable for Natwest 
not to raise a chargeback. I would just add, bearing in mind Mr Ls comment about how airlines could potentially treat their customers as set out in the last bullet point above, that he 
is entitled to pursue this issue with E if he wishes.
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I wont be upholding Mr Ls 
complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman