DRN-2361751
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card in 2007. Mr R says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him the PPI.
Ill refer mainly to Halifax for consistency.
background
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the mis-sale complaint. However, they thought 
Halifaxs subsequent offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-
disclosure of high commission and profit share, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Rs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Rs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Rs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive too decided Halifax should have disclosed 
the commission it received - but that Halifaxs subsequent offer to refund some of the cost of 
PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised 
my reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
Halifax says its records show the PPI was sold to Mr R over the internet. I have been made 
aware of the type of web-based form Halifax thinks Mr R would have used during the online 
credit card application back in 2007. It says he would have been presented with a yes / no 
choice about having PPI with his new card and he would have had to choose one of the two 
options to be able to continue his way through to the next stage of the application. It says he 
must have chosen the yes option on the screen for PPI to be added.
Theres no dispute Mr R was sold PPI. So I think hed have selected the yes option on the 
screen. I also note he was sent written confirmation of this and he confirmed his consent 
again, this time on a paper form, which said, I wish to purchase card repayment protection. 
Mr R ticked and also signed, next to this option.
So, Mr R asked for the cover to be added and would have been able to see it was optional. 
This wasnt an advised sale as Mr R would have completed the application himself and in 
his own time. And so it was for Mr R to decide for himself what he wanted to do. Halifax had 
a responsibility to provide clear enough information to allow him to make that decision.
Its certainly possible Halifax could have explained the policy in more detail than it did, 
although I think there were probably some links about the price and other key features of the 
PPI. So I think Mr R probably had enough information to decide what he wanted to do. Even 
if I accept more could have been explained by Halifax, I dont think this makes any difference 
to my decision.
This is because the cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr R. For example, the policy 
wasnt too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he 
was most likely given at the point of sale. I note his representative said hed suffered from 
some medical conditions in the 1990s. But it gave very few details about these and no 
evidence, and they pre-dated the PPI sale by many years. I have no evidence these would 
have either been relevant or made Mr R change what he went on to do i.e. buy the policy. It 
also said he had sick pay and other benefits with his job, but as Ive said, as a non-advised 
sale, the decision about buying it was his Im afraid.
I see there were some additional policy rules about the cover for back problems and mental 
health issues, but I have seen nothing to suggest that these would have mattered too much 
to Mr R in his situation as of 2007. I also doubt he would have expected to claim for a back 
problem, for instance, without first providing at least some evidence, which is what the rules 
required. Overall, I think Mr R was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the main 
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. The cost of the cover seems affordable 
for him and the PPI would have paid off 10% of his outstanding credit card balance each 
month for up to a year if hed needed to claim. Looking at Mr Rs job and general 
circumstances, I think this would have been useful.
Mr Rs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Rs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of his individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Rs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
non-disclosure of commissionAs I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Halifaxs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Halifax didnt tell Mr R about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So taking into account: 
The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Halifax and Mr R was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Halifax didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this 
case 
I dont think Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr R because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Rs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint. In summary they have said Mr R should get back all the money 
he paid for the policy because: Halifax failed to tell Mr R about the high commission and 
profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. 
Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr R wouldnt 
have taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and he should 
receive a refund of all the premiums he paid. 
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipA court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mr R 
in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Halifax not disclosing the high level of 
commission to him before he purchased the policy. So, taking into account: 
The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus 
interest in order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level 
of commission;
refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in 
my view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of 
the Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
I am not, as Mr Rs representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Halifaxs failure to disclose the level of commission for 
the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Halifax to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr R paid for his PPI policy. I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr R with the policy Ive concluded above 
he would still have taken out if Halifax had done everything it should have done  but with 
lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Halifaxs offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
my decision
I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Rs complaint or make any award in favour of him 
for this part.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Bank of 
Scotland plc should pay Mr R an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid 
in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). I understand 
this was paid in 2019.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Michael CampbellOmbudsman