DRN-2822751
The complaint
Mr M complains that NewDay Ltd irresponsibly allowed him to open two credit card accounts 
which were unaffordable.
What happened
Mr M says he opened the two NewDay credit card accounts in 2015 and says appropriate 
credit checks were not carried out. He says he was in financial difficulties but NewDay 
increased the credit limits on both accounts. Mr M says he didnt receive letters from 
NewDay about a default and would like the interest he was charged refunded as well as 
adverse information removed from his credit file.
NewDay says both applications and later credit limit increases were appropriately checked. It 
says Mr M was in employment with a declared income of £25,000 which increased to 
£52,000 for the second application. And didnt have any recent adverse information on his 
credit file. NewDay says Mr M managed his accounts appropriately for some years after they 
were opened and after the credit limits were approved. It says it sold the accounts in 2017 
and 2019 when the accounts were in arrears.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and told us his home had been fire damaged and as a 
result didnt receive the default letters. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and 
thought NewDay had carried out appropriate checks on the credit card applications as well 
as on the later credit limit increases. The investigator thought Mr M made regular payments 
and also managed other credit accounts appropriately.
Mr M doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
lending application. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type of borrowing 
and the amount involved. This complaint is about a credit facility rather than for example a 
mortgage or loan and so I wouldnt expect NewDay to have carried out such detailed checks 
as for those types of borrowing.
I have looked at NewDays records and the information supplied by Mr M and Im satisfied 
that Mr M didnt have any recent adverse information recorded on his credit file. Im satisfied 
that NewDay checked both credit card applications in 2015 and carried out affordability 
checks on both. I can see that Mr M was in employment with a declared income of between 
£25,000 and £52,000. So, I dont think NewDay made a mistake in providing Mr M with the 
accounts and Im satisfied that the accounts were affordable. Im also satisfied that 
reasonable and proportionate checks were carried out on the applications by NewDay and 
that the initial credit limits on both accounts were relatively modest.
I have looked at NewDays records and can see that further credit checks were carried out 
on Mr Ms financial position before the credit limit increases were approved. I can see that 
Mr M managed his accounts appropriately and made regular payments. Im satisfied that 
NewDay was reasonably entitled to consider that account management before increasing 
the credit limits and that Mr M could have rejected them if he wished.
I can see that Mr M managed the credit card accounts appropriately for some time after they 
were opened and after the credit limit increases. I think that provides further evidence that 
the accounts were affordable. I also think it likely on balance that Mr Ms financial position 
deteriorated from 2017 onwards which I dont think NewDay could reasonably have known 
about or anticipated when the accounts were opened or when the credit limits were 
increased.
I appreciate Mr Ms home was damaged by fire and that he didnt receive his mail about the 
default. But I cant fairly order NewDay removed any adverse information from Mr Ms credit 
file for that reason and think Mr M ought reasonably to have been aware of the account 
position and if he was making required repayments.
Overall, Im satisfied NewDays lending was not irresponsible or unaffordable and so I cant 
fairly order it to refund interest or remove adverse information from Mr Ms credit file which I 
think was correctly registered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman