DRN-3459673
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way a Capital One (Europe) plc adviser spoke to him during a 
phone call, and the issues he encountered when he asked for a copy of the call.
What happened
In May 2021, Mr S called Capital One to ask for an update on a credit card application hed 
made. During the call, Mr S was told the application had been cancelled. Mr S was unhappy 
about this and pointed out that hed seen hard searches on his credit file which he thought 
should be removed. As the call continued, matters escalated and the adviser ultimately 
made reference to Mr Ss ethnicity, followed by an offensive remark. Mr S was very unhappy 
about how he had been spoken to, so he complained to Capital One. He also asked for a 
copy of the call to be sent to him.
Capital One reviewed Mr Ss complaint. It apologised for the service he received and said it 
fell far below its expected standards. Capital One said it provided feedback to the adviser 
and team involved, which led to the subsequent dismissal of the adviser Mr S spoke with. 
Capital One paid Mr S £250 compensation in recognition of the distress caused to him. 
In relation to the copy of the call, Capital One initially agreed to send Mr S a copy. But it later 
decided to instead send him a transcript, as it thought this was enough to meet its 
obligations under the Data Protection Act when sending data to a customer. Capital One 
later also clarified that it had concerns about sending a call that included a third-partys 
information on it, as Mr S had said he intended to share the call more widely.
Mr S was unhappy with Capital Ones response, and that it had gone back on its agreement 
to send him a copy of the call. He also explained the lasting impact that the call had on him 
and said Capital Ones offer didnt do enough to put matters right. So, he brought his 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators reviewed matters and thought Capital One should do more to put 
things right for Mr S. He recommended it increased its offer to £500. He also appreciated 
Capital Ones concern about personal data of a third-party being shared, but thought it could 
still provide a copy of the call whilst ensuring the third-partys details were redacted.
In relation to Mr Ss credit application  which was the initial reason Mr S called Capital One 
in May 2021  the investigator explained that Capital One was able to cancel an application 
using its own commercial judgement. And, he said that any credit file searches recorded as 
part of the application shouldnt be removed.
Capital One didnt dispute our investigators findings. Mr S disagreed with the findings in 
relation to how the call was handled. He thought the offer of compensation should be higher 
and said he would consider a total compensation amount of £1,000, as well as a copy of the 
call, in settlement of his complaint. Capital One agreed to process this in November 2021.
In January 2022, Mr S contacted this service to explain he still hadnt received a copy of the 
call as agreed. So, he asked for his complaint to be re-investigated. He also explained that 
the matter had continued to have an impact on his health. Additionally, Mr S said that he 
wasnt in the right frame of mind when he accepted the previous settlement offer as he had 
been unwell with the Covid-19 virus at the time. 
Capital One said it had paid Mr S the additional £750 compensation and had also sent him a 
copy of the call in December 2021. However, it came to light that the key parts of the call, 
which Mr S had complained about, had been redacted. Following further correspondence 
with our service, Capital One apologised for its error, agreed to send Mr S another copy of 
the call without the redaction and offered Mr S £200 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused. Mr S remained unhappy and thought Capital One should increase its offer to 
£4,000, excluding previous payments made, write off his credit card and end its relationship 
with him.
In April 2022, Mr S let this service know that Capital One still hadnt sent him a copy of the 
call and had sent a different call to him instead. Capital One again apologised for the error 
and sent the correct call later that month. Our investigator ultimately reviewed matters again. 
In summary, he thought Capital Ones overall offer  £1,000 for how the call was handled, 
and an additional £200 for the issues with sending the call  was a fair resolution to the 
complaint.
Capital One accepted our investigators findings. Mr S remained unhappy and, in summary, 
mostly repeated his earlier points. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has come 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has provided lots of detail about his complaint, and Id like to thank him for taking the 
time to do so. Its important I explain, however, that my findings will only address those 
matters I consider central to the outcome of this complaint. So, while I have considered all 
the evidence provided by both parties, I wont address each and every point that has been 
raised. I trust this wont be taken as a discourtesy, but this reflects the informal nature of our 
service. And, to be clear, I consider the crux of this complaint to be about the conduct of the 
adviser on the call with Mr S, and the issues with sending the call thereafter.
The advisers conduct on the call with Mr S
Mr S says that the adviser on the call used racist language. I need to clarify that this service 
is unable to make findings on whether something constitutes discrimination on the grounds 
of race as per the Equality Act 2010. This is because we are an informal, free alternative to 
the courts and only a court of law can make a legal finding based on the definitions set out 
within the Act. However, I can consider whether a business has acted in a fair and 
reasonable manner. And in order to do that I will take a number of things, including the 
Equality Act 2010, into consideration.
Its not in dispute that the service Mr S received on the call fell far below the standard I would 
expect. Ive listened to the call, and Im persuaded that the adviser handled the call 
unprofessionally, particularly when matters began to escalate. I also find that the mention of 
Mr Ss ethnicity  and the comments made thereafter  were, without question, wholly 
inappropriate and offensive. 
Mr S has been clear and detailed about how the call affected him. In summary, he said the 
comments made on the call have had a lasting impact on him. He said he questions whether Capital One advisers will treat him fairly in interactions moving forward, or whether he will be 
treated differently due to his ethnicity. He also details the lasting impact of the matter on his 
mental health, explaining that he will be reminded of the phone call each time he sees 
Capital One adverts in the future.
I think Mr Ss testimony shows he has been caused avoidable distress as a result of the 
advisers conduct on the call. So, I think its right that Capital One should compensate him. 
Awarding compensation where there hasnt been a financial loss can be challenging. And, I 
can appreciate that no financial compensation may ever completely put things right for 
Mr S, given how matters have impacted him. However, having carefully considered all the 
information Ive been provided with, I think £1,000 compensation represents a fair and 
reasonable amount in the circumstances. 
Sending the call to Mr S
As I understand it, Capital One initially told Mr S it would send him a copy of the call that 
took place in May 2021. However, it then decided to send Mr S a transcript instead, which it 
thought still met the obligations set out in the Data Protection Act. 
Following further correspondence with this service, Capital One then agreed to send the call 
to Mr S, however there were various issues associated with doing so. Capital One initially 
redacted the relevant parts of the conversation, which Mr S had complained about. It then 
attempted to resend a full version of the call but instead, sent another call to Mr S in error.
Since the complaint has been with this service, Mr S has been sent a copy of the call as 
requested, with the key parts of the conversation not redacted. However, this was several 
months after hed originally requested it. And, this was in addition to the distress Mr S had 
already been caused as a result of the call itself. Capital One has recognised that the service 
here could have been better and has offered £200 compensation. Having thought carefully 
about this, I think the £200 Capital One offered fairly recognises the additional distress and 
inconvenience caused by the subsequent issues with sending the call.
Overall, I think Mr S has been caused avoidable distress and inconvenience by Capital One. 
However, I think a total compensation award of £1,200 is a fair and reasonable resolution to 
this complaint in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Capital One (Europe) plc to pay Mr S £200 compensation, 
in addition to the £1,000 it has already paid, for the distress and inconvenience it caused 
him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman