DRN-4452331
The complaint
K, a company, complains about a claim it made on its Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) business 
protection policy for business interruption, which Lloyds declined.
K says this was unfair.
Mrs B has brought this complaint on behalf of K, but I shall refer to all submissions as being 
Ks own for ease of reference.
What happened
K made a claim on the business interruption section of its business protection policy to 
Lloyds. The claim related to reduced footfall to its shop as a consequence of urgent work 
required to a third-party property situated 3 meters away in order to make it safe, which K 
says had a significant impact on its sales. 
The effect of the work was that the road in front of Ks shop was closed from mid-October 
2022 to vehicle traffic at all times. Signage was erected at the end of one entrance saying 
Road Ahead Closed with cones and additional signage partially blocking the highway. 
Scaffolding was erected on the building subject to the work which partially obscured the view 
of Ks shop and K says this reduced the passable street space from 6.8 meters to 1.2 meters 
for pedestrians. K says the scaffolding only came down at the end of July 2023 so the 
interruption to its business lasted for around 9 months.
Lloyds considered the claim and decided that the policy didnt engage because it couldnt be 
shown the issues K was complaining of caused a hindrance of access to the use of Ks 
business premises in accordance with the relevant term set out in its policy. Lloyds said this 
was because the road in question is usually pedestrianised for the majority of the day and 
notices were posted at its entrances to make clear that businesses were open as usual. In 
addition, they said no parking was normally available on the street, such that it would deter 
customers that might usually park there from accessing Ks shop. Unhappy, K referred its 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.  
Our investigator considered Ks complaint and concluded it should be upheld. She said the 
scaffolding caused an obstruction which limited people from walking down the road and as a 
result accessing Ks shop. She also thought K had shown enough evidence to support that 
there had been an impact on its sales as a result of this and therefore asked Lloyds to 
reconsider Ks claim.
Lloyds didnt agree. They made a number of detailed assertions. Ive summarised them as 
follows:
Theres been no change in access to Ks shop. This was only access by pedestrians as 
the road was previously closed to vehicles during business hours.
The reason for footfall decreasing could be down to a number of reasons and isnt 
causative. Given that K sells high end jewellery, the cost of living crisis, must play a 
factor in its revenue reducing.
The narrowing of the street wouldnt to any reasonable person mean theyre hindered 
from accessing it. 
Bottlenecking as a result of the narrowing of the street also cant be considered a 
hindrance in the same way that inclement weather or noise cant be considered to 
amount to this.
The policy requires the hindrance needs to be caused by the actions of the civil authority 
closing the road to vehicle access or the erection of the scaffolding and theres nothing to 
support this.
The reduction in the width of the street amounts to about half the width and not the 1.2 
meters referred to by K.
They have a legal opinion that supports their position.
Their loss adjusters report supports that there are many people on the street passing 
through or shopping so it cant be any more difficult to access.
Because of this the matter has been passed to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Ks complaint for broadly the same reasons set out by the 
investigator. These are my reasons.
The starting point is the policy terms. The prevention of access extension under the business 
interruption section of the policy says:
It is hereby agreed that subject to the terms and conditions of this insurance loss as
insured by Item 1 of this Section resulting in prevention or hindrance of access to or
the use of the premises solely in consequence of:
a) Damage (as defined herein) to property in the immediate vicinity of the premises,
b) Restriction imposed by order of a Civil Authority consequent upon any other
sudden and unforeseen emergency which is likely to endanger life or property in the
vicinity of such premises shall be deemed to be lost resulting from damage to
property insured by the Insured at the premises.
Theres no dispute that the work to the third-party property prevented access to Ks shop. 
The relevant term here is whether there was a hindrance of access to Ks shop as a result of 
a restriction imposed by an order of a civil authority consequent upon any other sudden and 
unforeseen emergency which is likely to endanger life or property in the vicinity of such 
premises. In this case there were traffic restrictions, signage and cones imposed by the local 
authority and the emergency scaffolding erected by the third party which would most likely 
have been put in place subject to an emergency application for permission from the local 
authority. This was because the third-party property was considered an immediate safety 
concern. So, what remains is for me to determine is whether the restrictions in place 
amounted to a hindrance.Hindrance is not defined by the policy, so Ive applied the ordinary dictionary definition 
which states a thing that provides resistance, delay, or obstruction to something or 
someone. 
Ive thought carefully about what both parties have said and considered the images provided 
by K of the various restrictions in place, including the narrowing of the road, the scaffolding 
and the signs pointing out that the road is closed. And whilst I take on board that the road 
was never open to vehicles during business hours and that the signs do show pedestrians 
can pass, taken together, I think that they do obstruct or provide resistance to foot flow.
The scaffolding itself obstructs a walking view of Ks shop unless you pass directly in front of 
it and in order to do that, one must walk through the considerably narrowed part of the street 
on one side. The parties have both made submissions about this being a particularly busy 
area.  So, at times when the street is busier I can quite appreciate why pedestrians might 
seek to avoid that part of the street given its narrowing, which appears to be over half of the 
street itself. And given the signage and scaffolding, its also quite possible that pedestrians 
might be put off accessing the street when viewing it from a distance despite signage 
showing that businesses are open as usual. As such I can quite understand why K says that 
this has impacted on its sales. And I think this is enough to amount or obstruction to Ks 
business premises.
Lloyds loss adjuster who considered the position on the ground says: 
Certainly, at the time of our visit to the shop pedestrians appeared to be walking
in both directions past the shop without hinderance and in significant numbers. However, we
cannot state the presence of the signs partly across the highway have not put off a number 
of tourist/visitors who may have elected to take an alternative route. We therefore consider it
will be somewhat difficult to refute the Insured's contention the trading of the business has
been impacted by the hindrance brought about by the actions of the Local Authority.
He also says that the belief by K and other business owners is that many pedestrians 
simply take the view they cannot traverse the road and simply go another route.  
Given the above, Im persuaded that that the restrictions to the road in terms of signage, with 
cones and scaffolding significantly reducing the width of the road 3 meters away from Ks 
shop has hindered access to its shop. And the summary provided by Lloyds legal adviser of 
its view of the claim doesnt change my mind. Because of this I think it was unfair for Lloyds 
to decline Ks claim. Ive set out what they need to do to put things right below. 
Putting things right
Lloyds should now:
Reconsider Ks claim subject to the remaining policy terms.
If payment is made to K, Lloyds should pay interest on that amount at 8% per year 
simple one month from the date of the claim until payment is made. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Ks complaint and direct Society of Lloyd's to put 
things right as Ive set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman