DRN-4076134
The complaint
T, a limited company, complains about what happened when an application was made on its 
behalf to Fleet Mortgages Ltd. 
Mr I complains on behalf of T.
What happened
Mr I said he applied to Fleet, for a mortgage for T. He said Fleet turned T down after hed 
paid the application fee, because of credit rating issues. But Mr I said Fleet knew all about 
his credit rating before it accepted payment for the application, and could have said no 
before the fees were paid. So Mr I thought Fleet should give T back the fee it had paid.
Mr I also said hed checked the fees Fleet is supposed to charge, and its only supposed to 
charge £600 for valuing a property worth up to £200,000. Fleet had valued his property at 
£180,000. But it charged him £745 for the valuation. So Mr I said Fleet had overcharged.
Mr F said this had been enormously stressful, and had affected his health. Mr I said he 
thought Fleet was just raising money from the fees it charged, and then not actually lending. 
He said that this was some sort of scam. Mr I said T was charged £944 in fees, and in 
addition Fleets own solicitor had charged T £381.44. Because he thought Fleet should have 
known from the start that it wouldnt lend to him, Mr I said Fleet should pay that all back. 
Fleet didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it understood Mr Is own credit score 
was poor before it considered his application. But it said it needed to consider a number of 
factors, including the overall position of his business, before it made a decision on lending to 
him. It said once it had full information on the financial position of the business, that, 
combined with Mr Is own financial position, meant that Fleet decided not to lend. 
Fleet said Mr I had signed to say that he understood the basis of the application, which 
included that it might be turned down. And the documentation also explained that the fees T 
paid werent refundable. Fleet said the fees it charges are worked out to cover the costs it 
incurs, and it said it isnt making a profit from these. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Fleets underwriter 
had considered Ts application, and could see that the business had an average balance of 
£5,000 overdrawn. So with the large unsecured debt showing on Mr Is credit report, and his 
income, B decided not to agree to the lending. But our investigator didnt think Fleet had all 
this information at the outset. 
Our investigator said Mr I agreed to pay non-refundable fees when he applied. Its not 
unusual for a lender to charge a non-refundable fee for an application, and this is a risk a 
borrower takes, knowing their application might be declined. Our investigator said she hadnt 
seen anything to make her think that Fleet was just charging fees, knowing it would be 
declining an application. 
Mr I didnt agree. He said we hadnt looked at the poor service levels Fleet had offered, and 
that it had ignored a complaint completely. He said we hadnt looked at how long his 
application took, or that hed been overcharged on his valuation. Mr I wanted this complaint 
to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr I thought Fleet would always have rejected his application, and he felt Fleet knew this 
from the start, because it had seen his financial position then. So he didnt think he should 
have been asked to pay an application fee. 
But Fleet said it doesnt just make its decision on the basis of the personal financial position 
of a business owner. This was lending to a limited company, and Fleet told us it takes 
account of the financial position of the company too. Ive asked Fleet some further questions 
about this, and it has told me about a considerable number of applications where the 
personal financial position of the business owner was similar to Mr Is, but where the 
financial position of the business was stronger. In those instances, Fleet did agree to lend. 
What Fleet has said about this, makes me think that Fleet couldnt have known, before Mr I 
paid his fee, whether it would be able to lend to him or not. I think it made its decision on the 
basis of the additional information that it received after it produced a decision in principle in 
this case, and after T paid the fee. So I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Fleet to 
charge for this application, and I dont think it has to return that money now. 
Like our investigator, I havent seen anything here to make me think that Fleet is just 
charging fees on applications it doesnt intend to approve.
Mr I said he was overcharged for the valuation he received, and hes sent us documentation 
from Fleet which says that, for a property valued up to £200,000 the charge would be less 
than he paid. But Fleet has sent us the application form it received from Mr I, and that says 
that the estimated value of this property is over £200,000. So I think that Mr I was charged 
the right valuation fee, based on the application he made. I dont think Fleet has to pay some 
of that money back, because the property was then valued at less than Mr I anticipated. 
Mr I says Fleet ignored his earlier complaint. I can see in his emails to Fleet, he refers to a 
complaint made about a year earlier. But our service can only consider here the complaint 
which has been referred to us, which is the complaint about the application Mr I made in 
January 2023. Mr I can ask us to look into other issues if he would like. 
Mr I also said he received no response to his query about the cost of this valuation. I think 
this issue was always likely to have been referred to our service, as Fleet says it did apply 
the correct fee. And, although I understand Mr I may be disappointed by the response, Im 
pleased that our service has now been able to resolve this for Mr I. 
Mr I has referred to poor service from Fleet, he said he waited significantly longer than Fleet 
suggested he would, for a valuation and for an eventual decision. I think its worth noting 
here that it has been an extremely difficult period for mortgage lenders, as borrowers rush to 
secure deals before rates rise. I appreciate that Mr I was expecting Fleet to be able to meet 
the very stretching targets he says it sets for itself on its website, and I understand he would be disappointed if what hed understood to be the targets, werent met. But, having looked at 
Fleets website, its not clear to me that Fleet had committed to completing the whole of the 
valuation process, or the whole of the review and decision on offer, within this timescale. 
And even if it had, I would still have said that its not unreasonable for Fleet to have taken 
ten days to produce a valuation report on Mr Is property, and then two weeks for a decision 
on whether to make an offer to T.
Ive considered everything that Mr I said about Ts mortgage application. I think that Fleet did 
charge the appropriate valuation fee, and for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Fleet 
has to repay the fees it has charged. And, although I understand Mr I considers Fleet has 
fallen short of his expectations, I dont think that Fleets service overall has been so poor that 
it would be fair and reasonable to tell it to pay T compensation in this case.
I know that Mr I will be disappointed, but for the reasons set out above, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman