DRN-4305653
The complaint
Mrs P complained about the service provided by IG Markets Limited. She said it delayed 
arranging for additional shares to be added to her ISA account from a rights issue. Mrs P 
said whilst she was trying to chase this up and sort it out, IG provided poor service. She said 
she was also looking to sell her parent holding shares sooner but couldnt until the rights 
issues shares had been added. She said it had caused her distress and inconvenience 
along with investment losses.
What happened
In September 2021, Mrs P arranged to transfer her stocks and shares ISA from a third 
party to IG Markets. Mrs P could see that one of the companies she had invested in, 
had raised a rights issue and she wanted to take them up. Mrs P said she contacted IG 
Markets on several occasions to arrange for this to happen.
IG Markets said it needed to discuss with the previous ISA provider when the shares 
were bought so that it knew what Mrs P was entitled to. It said it discussed this with Mrs 
P and suggested she pay a sum of money into a separate investment account, whilst 
the transfer of her ISA was completing. Mrs P did this. 
On 22 September 2021, an entry appeared on Mrs Ps investment account that stated 
the rights were taken up for the company in question. Then shortly after this, the entry 
was removed. This left the cash that Mrs P transferred into the account, sitting as the 
balance. 
Mrs P didnt hear from IG Markets after this point or said she saw anything in her 
account or account statement about the rights issue. Mrs P at this stage was expecting 
to see the money being taken out of her account in exchange for the rights issue shares. 
This didnt happen so on 20 and 27 October 2021, Mrs P sent emails to IG Markets 
asking where the additional shares were. Mrs P didnt get a reply to her messages so on 
8 November 2021, Mrs P made a complaint to IG Markets about what had happened. 
IG Markets replied in March 2022 and said it upheld Mrs Ps complaint. It said sorry for the 
error and inconvenience it had caused. It initially offered £150 as a gesture of goodwill (and 
then latterly raised this to £350). It said it agreed that Mrs P was entitled to receive shares 
from the rights issue. It confirmed that the shares she had taken up had been booked on the 
account. On the same day, IG Markets arranged for Mrs P to have the rights shares on her 
investment account.  
Mrs P wasnt happy with IG Markets response. She said if the shares had been booked onto 
her investment account when they should have been, she would have sold her parent 
shares a lot sooner.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2023. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
I uphold Mrs Ps complaint. I currently think £350 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience is a fair and reasonable amount for IG Markets to pay. But I dont currently 
think it needs to do anything further. 
These are my findings that explain why:
Mrs P wanted to take up a rights issue for one of the shareholdings in her stocks 
and shares ISA. She was also in the process of transferring her ISA to a new 
provider: IG Markets.
I can see that IG Markets and Mrs P discussed the rights issue. IG Markets said 
to Mrs P that it would be best for her to transfer money to an investment account, 
so that it could then arrange taking up the rights issue shares on her behalf 
through this, whilst the transfer of her ISA was also taking place. 
Mrs P transferred the correct amount of money into an investment account set up 
for this purpose. IG Markets says it discussed what Mrs P was entitled to with the 
previous ISA provider. Also, on a statement for the investment account, dated 23 
September 2021, I can see that IG Markets had done some initial work regarding 
the rights issue, as an entry appeared about it. The entry listed the shareholding 
and stated that the rights had been taken. 
This leads me to conclude that on balance, IG Markets did take up the rights that 
Mrs P was entitled to and did at this early stage carry out her instructions to do 
so. If things had gone according to plan, IG Markets says it should have booked 
Mrs Ps shares onto her account and debited the funds on 1st October 2023 at 
the earliest. This is because on the rights issue timetable the date for payment for 
the additional shares was showing as 28 September 2023. IG Markets said it 
would take it 3 working days from this point to do what it needed to make this 
happen. But this isnt in reality what happened. 
Mrs P has provided a statement of her account from 4 October 2021, that shows 
only the money she deposited. There is no other information at this stage about 
the rights issue. I think Mrs P is right to have been apprehensive about this. Even 
though I have concluded that IG Markets did take up the rights for shares on her 
behalf, I think seeing a statement that just showed a balance of cash only, 
mustve been stressful and worrying for Mrs P. I can see why Mrs P would want 
to find out what was going on.
Mrs P contacted IG Markets on 20 and 27 October 2021 to chase things up and 
didnt receive a response. She then made a complaint on 8 November 2021. 
Things didnt get better for her, as there was a long delay caused by IG Markets. 
Then when IG Markets did initially respond, it said she wasnt entitled to the 
rights shares. Again, this would have caused Mrs P distress especially after the 
discussions she had already had with IG Markets and the amount of time and 
effort she had put in to ensure that she took up her rights and bought the shares.IG Markets did then respond properly in March 2022, said sorry and offered to 
pay compensation for distress and inconvenience. Its current offer to Mrs P is 
£350 and for all the reasons I have just outlined, I think this offer is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Mrs P has had to deal with an unnecessary 
amount of distress and worry in trying to ascertain what was going on. I think IG 
Markets should have simply contacted her early on and reassured her that it was 
dealing with her rights shares. But it didnt. It says this was due to a mixture of 
confusion about the transfer of her ISA and poor service. I uphold Mrs Ps 
complaint about all of this and direct it to pay the compensation it has offered of 
£350 to her.
What is left for me to decide is, whether Mrs P wouldve sold her parent shares in 
the company sooner if her rights shares had been booked but for the delay 
caused by IG Markets. This is something Mrs P said she would have done. She 
says this is because she wanted to keep the rights shares at a lower buy in price 
but sell the parent shares when the price was high. She produced some 
information that showed she and her husband had done this in a different 
account with a third party.
I understand what Mrs P is saying regarding what she did about the rights issue 
on another account. But I am not persuaded that this alone would indicate, on 
balance, that she wanted to do the same thing with her parent holding held with 
IG Markets. After all, Mrs P could well have decided to sell her parent holding in 
one account, and not in another.
I would need to see more about her intentions for the parent shares held in this 
account, such as anything stated in an email, call recording or letter to IG 
Markets. I have reviewed all the correspondence between the parties, and I 
havent seen anything from Mrs P where she has said she wanted to sell her 
parent holding once the rights shares were booked. 
It is for the reason I have given, that I currently cannot be sure that Mrs P would 
have wanted to sell her parent holding shares sooner, but for the delay caused 
by IG Markets. I would need to see more evidence about this to conclude 
otherwise. So, it follows, that I dont currently think IG Markets needs to 
compensate Mrs P here for any investment losses. 
Overall, I uphold Mrs Ps complaint and agree that she suffered distress and 
inconvenience by IG Markets due to the delay it caused and for how it responded to her 
requests. But IG Markets do not need to do anything further.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. IG Markets said it had no additional information to add. Mrs P 
did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has anything further to add that I feel I need to comment on or that will 
change the outcome of this complaint. So, because of this, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within my provisional decision. So, I uphold Mrs Ps complaint and IG 
Markets now needs to put things right.
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, IG Markets needs to: 
Pay Mrs P £350 for distress and inconvenience for the delays it caused in booking 
her rights issues shares. This delay was excessively long, and IG Markets did not 
communicate with Mrs P about the rights issue as quickly as it should have done. 
This would have caused Mrs P distress and worry about it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ps complaint about IG Markets Limited. I direct IG 
Markets Limited to put things right as I have described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman