DRN-3458803
The complaint
Mrs and Mr M complain about the advice and service they received from Five Wealth 
Limited, an appointed representative of Sense Network Limited, collectively referred to as 
the business.  
In summary, they say the business:
Failed to monitor their portfolio. 
Gave ongoing unsuitable advice to remain invested in the Woodford Equity Income 
Fund  referred to as the fund or WEIF  which was performing badly for several 
years before its suspension in June 2019. 
Mrs and Mr M say that theyve suffered a financial loss as a result and would like 
compensation for their losses.  
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Mrs and Mr M had been a client of their adviser for many years, before joining the 
business in 2016. 
Their service agreement was on an ongoing advisory basis, with yearly review 
meetings, and six-monthly reports. In reality, they met with their adviser and/or spoke 
to him on the phone more frequently.  
They opted to receive advice on retirement planning, savings and investments, and 
estate planning. 
In 2015, they were initially advised to invest in the WEIF, before they joined the 
business. 
The 2016 reports, the client questionnaire  initially completed in July 2016 (but 
updated)  gives a detailed insight into their financial situation. 
At the time, they were both employed as directors, had a substantial property 
portfolio, and a considerable investment portfolio which included personal pensions, 
stocks and shares ISA, Unit Trust/OEIC funds, Investment bonds, and a Discounted 
Gift Trust (DGT).  
Their attitude to risk (ATR) was assessed to be at the low end of moderate to 
adventurous. 
Their objective was to grow the value of their wealth in order to ensure their standard 
of living in retirement, which was planned for 2018. But they wanted to remain 
invested, post retirement, in order to continue to draw an income from their 
investments, which suggests a long-term strategy for their investments. 
They had access to substantial cash reserves, and enough to cover any 
emergencies. They also had a high capacity for loss. 
They had been investing for some time and had knowledge and experience of 
investing. They were actively involved in their portfolio and they were comfortable 
with a degree of risk. Consequently, they understood the volatility of markets and 
potential loss and gains. 
The WEIF holdings were part of Mrs and Mr Ms DGT, ISAs and OEIC funds. But 
poor performance isnt an indicator of poor advice. 
Their portfolio was made up of a variety funds, with holdings in various sectors, to 
ensure diversification. Some holdings included a higher risk  with higher potential for 
gain  whilst other holdings provided a lower risk  with lower potential for gains. This 
is necessary in order to regulate the risk of the overall portfolio. 
The ISA, OEIC and DGT was diversified, there was no evidence of over exposure in 
any particular fund including WEIF. Overall, the exposure was in line with Mrs and Mr 
Ms attitude to risk. 
The risk profile for the WEIF in 2015 was slightly above average, and its objective 
was to provide a reasonable level of income together with capital growth. Given their 
risk profile and existing portfolio holdings, it was a reasonable addition to their 
portfolio. Theres no evidence that it was unsuitable. 
Having considered the 2016, 2017 and 2018 reports from meetings/reviews, 
recommendations, as well as internal notes, she is unable to agree that the business 
failed to monitor Mrs and Mr Ms portfolio.
Although they had scheduled annual reviews and six-monthly reports, there were a 
number of additional meetings/telephone calls.       
Mrs and Mr M were given recommendations in light of their circumstances, objective 
and risk profile and changing financial climate, so that their portfolio continued to be 
well diversified and theres no risk of over exposure. 
The adviser couldnt have known that the WEIF fund was likely to be suspended. He 
only advised based on the available information at the time.  
In this instance, the WEIF was managed by a fund manager who had a long history 
of investment success and was known as one of the best fund managers in recent 
times. 
The adviser has shown that whilst funds mightve underperformed for a number of 
years, theyre able to achieve exceptional long-term growth. The WEIF itself had 
gone through periods of underperformance and bounced back exceptionally well. 
Whilst past performance isnt a definite indicator of future performance, its 
reasonable that a managers track record is considered. 
Many firms also took the managers reputation into account when they advised their 
clients to weather the storm.   
Recommendations were made shortly after the re-classification of the WEIF in April 
2018  when the fund was reclassified as a UK ALL Companies Fund instead of the 
Equity Income Fund. This was to reflect the changes in investments and the fact that 
it wasnt generating the same income as expected from the Equity Income Fund  
due to the inclusion of unlisted securities which generated less income and increased 
risk. 
The above all shows that the business was closely monitoring the WEIF and portfolio 
and made reasonable recommendations to reduce the exposure and divert 
investments accordingly.     
Mrs and Mr M disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. They had no further points to add. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs and Mr M say, I cant safely 
say that the business behaved unreasonably. 
In other words, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im not persuaded that 
the business failed to monitor Mrs and Mr Ms portfolio or that its advice to remain invested 
in WEIF was unreasonable. Therefore, I dont think the business is responsible for the 
financial loss claimed. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I recognise Mrs
and Mr Ms strength of feeling about this matter. Theyve provided detailed submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope they
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in
as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by Mrs and Mr M and the business, and reach what I think is an
independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats
fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation, and best industry
practice. But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more
likely than not to have happened.
Its fair to say that certain questions were asked of Mrs and Mr M to arrive at the conclusion
that their ATR was at the low end of moderate to adventurous. I note it was out of a set of 
options, which I understand from subsequent reports was akin to a score of seven on the 
business scale. I also note this was lower than their existing portfolio.
I note Mrs and Mr M were willing to take a risk with their investment in order to achieve their 
objective for gain and income  described by the business as follows:
'You are prepared to take a medium degree of risk with your investment in return for the
prospect of improving longer term investment performance. Short term capital protection is
not important to you and you are willing to sacrifice some long-term protection for the
likelihood of greater returns. A typical moderate to adventurous investor will be invested
mainly in equities but with other assets included to provide some diversification. There may
be a small amount of specialised equity within the portfolio. Because you are a low end of
moderate to adventurous investor there will be slightly more invested in fixed interest and
cash.'
Given Mrs and Mr Ms financial circumstances at the time, as set out in the background, I 
dont think that was unreasonable or likely to render their investment (and continued 
investment) in WEIF unsuitable. Im satisfied that they were aware of the general risks 
involved and were content to proceed.  
That notwithstanding, I should make clear that Im not specifically looking at whether Mrs 
and Mr M were low end of moderate to adventurous risk investors, or specifically whether 
WEIF was. Im merely considering whether WEIF was suitable for them, and Im persuaded 
that it was given their aims and objectives.  
Notwithstanding the points made by Mrs and Mr M, its not for us to risk rate the funds. In 
this instance, based on what the business says, the funds were classed as presenting a 
medium risk overall, and suitable for Mrs and Mr M given their ATR. Ive no reason, given 
the business explanation, to think this was incorrect or unsuitable. I understand that the WEIF holdings were part of Mrs and Mr Ms DGT, ISAs and OEIC  
therefore a material part of their portfolio  but their overall portfolio was also made up of a 
variety of funds, with holdings in various sectors, to ensure diversification, which was also 
very important. I note the investigator mentioned a mix of holdings, providing higher and 
lower risk, which Im satisfied was necessary in order to regulate the risk of the overall 
portfolio.
In other words, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im broadly satisfied that their 
portfolio  comprised of ISA, OEIC and DGT  was diversified, without any great exposure to 
any one particular fund, including the WEIF, and was broadly in line with their ATR and 
experience.
 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that they were risk averse, or lower risk, such that they werent 
prepared to take the requisite risk in order to achieve their objective. Given their 
circumstances Im satisfied that they were generally aware of, and understood, the risks 
involved, particularly with market volatility. Based on their answers, Im satisfied that they 
understood the need to monitor an investment if it goes down and see if it improves. 
Im conscious Mrs and Mr M had substantial investment experience, and therefore were 
unlikely to invest in anything, or remain invested, if they were feeling uncomfortable or had 
doubts about the investment. I note within the questionnaire it was recorded that they are:
a very experienced time served investor, exposed to investments which fluctuate in value, 
for over 20 years in a reciprocal client/adviser relationship.
I note that Mrs and Mr M had access to a substantial sum of cash if they needed it, and they 
had capacity for loss. In other words, they could also replace or withstand any losses even 
though they were planning to retire. Ive seen nothing to suggest that they were risk averse 
or lower risk, as they approached retirement, such that they werent prepared to take a risk 
in order to achieve their objective. And given their investment experience  as set out in the 
background above  Im satisfied that they were generally aware of, and understood, the 
risks involved, particularly with market volatility. 
Importantly, there was nothing to suggest that they couldnt ride out any downturn in the 
market if thats what they wanted to do, or that they shouldnt invest because of their age 
and retirement. I acknowledge that they were in a different stage of their lives, looking 
forward to returning to the UK and potentially purchasing a property to live in. 
I understand that the suspension of the fund took investors by surprise, including the 
business, which couldnt have predicted or controlled what was about to happen. In other 
words, it was out of the business hands and isnt something that I can blame the business 
for. It also doesnt mean that the recommendation to remain invested in the fund was 
unsuitable. 
On balance, I dont think the business suspected that there were any serious problems with 
the fund apart from the poor performance and income yield, as mentioned by the 
investigator, which arguably wasnt anything out of the ordinary. 
Im persuaded that the business wouldve acted sooner if it thought that something was 
wrong. In other words, despite what Mrs and Mr M say, I think its unlikely that the business 
would simply do nothing if it thought something was wrong.  
 Without the benefit of hindsight, its virtually impossible to know for sure how WEIF was likely 
to perform. Im mindful that notwithstanding the hope it would do well, and generate an 
income, no guarantees were given about its performance. 
Despite what Mrs and Mr M say, Im unable to safely say that the business didnt review or 
monitor their investments. Im broadly satisfied that it did so, for the reasons set out by the 
investigator. 
I note the adviser was available to discuss any concerns or issues raised by Mrs and Mr M, 
over and above the agreement they had with the business as to the contact they were 
entitled to. He also provided financial reports, which were reasonably detailed, up to date 
and comprehensive, considering their changing circumstances and financial climate. For 
example, by way of a snapshot in reference to what the investigator mentioned, I note the 
following: 
In March the 2017, Mrs and Mr M were given recommendations in relation to their 
ISA contributions based on their decision to maximise their ISA allowances before 
the April 2017 deadline. Amongst other recommendations they were also advised to 
increase their monthly contributions into the WEIF fund. 
Six months later, in September 2017, Mrs and Mr M had an annual review during 
which their future objective and ATR was re-assessed. Their portfolio was also 
discussed in detail. The adviser noted market volatility  given political climates both 
at home and abroad  and made a number of recommendations to offset the effects 
of any adverse market conditions including:
oTaking an annuity from one of their pensions. 
oA bed and breakfast strategy in respect of their OEIC, in order to reduce 
CGT. 
oSwitching funds, to ensure the portfolio remains invested in funds which are 
within the business recommended panels or buy lists.   
A couple of months later, I note they received another strategy which included the 
bed and breakfast strategy and recommendation to sell holdings that showed a 
positive gain- before they moved back to the UK  to crystalize the gains and retain 
funds in WEIF and Artemis, so that they didnt  crystalize any losses.   
In May 2018, Mrs and Mr M were provided with a set of recommendations (based on 
their previous meeting) focused on their upcoming retirement, income withdrawals, 
as well as reinvestment of cash. 
They were advised to reduce their exposure to the WEIF as the fund included a large 
number of unquoted shares, which changed the profile and subsequent expectations. 
They were also advised to redirect 50% of their ISA and GIA holdings to another 
fund. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I agree with the investigator that this shows 
that the business was monitoring and reviewing the portfolio and making recommendations 
in line with Mrs and Mr Ms risk profile and objectives, such that their portfolio continued to 
be diversified. In other words, Im satisfied that the business was providing suitable 
recommendations. Despite what Mrs and Mr M might say, Im unable to say that the 
business hasnt given them what they paid for.  
Given Mrs and Mr M longer term objectives (including post retirement) and that there was 
nothing to suggest that the fund wouldnt recover  Im aware it had in the past  I dont think 
it was unreasonable for the business not to advise them to disinvest in the fund. On balance 
Im satisfied there was nothing to suggest that it would be suspended. Its not a judgement 
on the part of the business that I think was unreasonable.  I note that recommendations were made shortly after the reclassification of the WEIF in April 
2018  when the fund was reclassified as a UK ALL Companies Fund instead of the Equity 
Income Fund. This was to reflect the changes in investments and the fact that it wasnt 
generating the same income as expected from the Equity Income Fund  due to the 
inclusion of unlisted securities which generated less income and increased risk. 
The above all shows that the business was closely monitoring the WEIF and portfolio and 
made reasonable recommendations to reduce the exposure and divert investments 
accordingly.  
I note on 25 May 2018, the adviser recommended the following:
I am also recommending that you reduce your exposure to the Woodford Equity Income 
fund due to the shift we have seen from larger cap exposure within the fund to smaller and 
unquoted companies, which is a change to the original expectations for investment in this 
fund. As a result, this fund has the potential to be more volatile than other UK Equity Income 
funds but will provide sector diversification in terms of investment within the UK market when 
compared to other UK funds you hold. I am therefore looking to re-direct 50% of the holdings 
in Woodford within your Aegon ISAs, and c. 1/3 of the holding in your joint Aegon GIA to an 
alternative fund.
In this instance, I cant say that the poor fund performance and the losses are linked to 
whether or not Mrs and Mr Ms investments were monitored. The fund suspension doesnt 
mean that their investments werent looked after or mismanaged. In this instance their 
adviser clearly considered their goals and attitude to risk and recommended a change in 
their holdings to offset the additional risk they were being exposed to. Again, I cant say that 
this was as a result of anything done by the business.  
Mrs and Mr M couldve been advised to invest in something else, but that doesnt of itself 
mean the recommendations were unsuitable. I make clear that Im not looking at whether or 
not there were more suitable options, Im only looking at whether or not the WEIF was 
suitable, and on balance, Im satisfied that it was for the same reasons as set out in the 
background.  
Ive seen no evidence to suggest that Mrs and Mr M were given any guarantee about the
level of return or that WEIF wont be suspended. And just because they didnt receive a 
better return and the fund was suspended, doesnt mean that the recommendation was 
unsuitable or that the business didnt monitor their portfolio. Im aware the business says that 
suspension of these fund was very unlikely. 
I appreciate Mrs and Mr M will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what they want to hear. But on the face 
of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give them 
what they want. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman