DRN-3302915
The complaint
Mr T complains that Advantage Finance Ltd didnt make him aware that the loan it was 
offering included an acceptance fee of £325 and a final payment of £200.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
Firstly, I should make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award redress where appropriate. I do not perform the role of 
the industry regulator and I do not have the power to make rules for financial businesses or 
to punish them. I have mentioned this since Mr T has suggested any award to him would be 
a form of punishment to the business. As I have said that is not the case.
Mr T says that he wasnt fully informed of the additional costs when he spoke to the brokers. 
The agreement which Mr T signed does set out all the costs including the two disputed 
items. So, if one simply looks at that then there is no basis for upholding this complaint. Mr T 
willingly signed a document which set out what he would have to pay. In that regard I cannot 
say that he was misled. However, he has explained that prior to and during the loan approval 
process he was given misleading information which affected his decision to accept the loan.
I have listened to several phone calls between Mr T and the broker. I am aware there were 
quite a few calls and this service has not been provided with them all. I do not read anything 
sinister into that given the time which has elapsed. However, the calls I have listened to do 
give an indication as to what happened.
The first is between Mr T and the broker. In that call the increased APR is discussed. The 
call handler explains that as Mr T wanted to repay the loan over a shorter period than 
originally suggested the APR increased. He understands this and agrees to proceed. He 
asks about the total cost and is told it is 36 months at £275.70. There is no reference to any 
additional costs. Mr T was keen to have the matter settled as soon as possible and so he 
proceeded.
The following call is subsequent to Mr T filling in the online application form. He had some 
difficulty with supplying a copy of his driving licence and this is discussed with the call 
handler. He also mentioned that there were additional charges. The call handler says that 
this detail is not normally available initially and only at this point is more detail available to 
her. Although there is some talking over each other Mr T says on two occasions that the deal 
is fine. I am satisfied that at that point Mr T was aware of the charges and decided to go 
ahead with the fianc arrangement.
He does spend some time trying to establish if the money will come thought that day of the 
following one. He explains that the dealer has serviced the car and it has been valeted and it 
is clear he is keen to complete the acquisition.
So, I agree he was not given the full picture when he spoke to the broker and the full details 
only came to light when he was completing the online form. But he was able to walk away 
from that offer if he so chose. I appreciate he had paid £200 deposit to the dealer but that 
didnt stop him seeking alternative finance. That said, I do appreciate his desire to complete 
the acquisition quickly.
He also had 14 days after the agreement was signed to end it. He would have had to find 
alternative finance, but this was an option. I consider he was keen to get his hands on the 
car and I doubt if he would have sought alternative finance.
So I dont consider it right that I direct Advantage to forgo the fees, but I do believe sone 
compensation is merited due to the lack of clarity initially.
Putting things right
Advantage should compensate Mr T.
My final decision
My final decision is that I direct Advantage Finance Ltd to pay Mr T £75 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman