DRN-2113959
The complaint
Mr Qs complaint is that Barclays Bank UK, trading as Barclaycard (Barclays), has 
incorrectly calculated the redress he has been paid for a mis-sold PPI policy.
What happened
Mr Q complained to Barclays that he had been mis-sold PPI on his Egg credit card (which 
was later taken over by Barclaycard).
Barclays upheld Mr Qs complaint and in November 2019 it sent him its final response letter 
detailing the breakdown of the payment of £21,524.31 that was due to him.
Mr Q isnt happy with the calculation. He says he is entitled to a full refund of the PPI costs 
plus 8% interest and further interest to compensate for the full debit interest. He says 
returning just the interest payments is insufficient and having to keep up with the credit card 
payments has caused him financial hardship and led to Mr Qs other credit cards and bank 
account being overdrawn as a consequence. 
Our adjudicator who considered the complaint thought that the offer was fair and in-line with 
how we would expect a business to calculate the redress for a PPI mis-sale. 
Mr Q disagreed with the adjudicator. As the complaint remains unresolved it has been 
passed to me for a decision in my role as ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Mr Qs case. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Qs complaint. Ill explain why.  
When we find that a PPI policy has been mis-sold, we expect the business to put the 
consumer in the financial position they would have been in as if they hadnt taken the policy 
 as far as is possible. This means a repayment of all of the premiums charged and any 
additional interest or costs, plus statutory interest at a rate of 8% for the time the consumer 
has been out of pocket. 
Barclays has given us a copy of its redress calculations for the policy which date from        
16 January 2001 to 19 November 2019. This is based on full statement data for the full life of 
the policy and takes into account any over-limit, insufficient funds and late fees that may 
have occurred as a direct result of the PPI premiums and associated interest including any 
cash advances. Barclays has used this data to reconstruct the usage of the credit card each 
month as if PPI hadnt been added. 
The account reconstruction compares what actually happened on Mr Qs account each 
month to what could have happened if the PPI wasnt added each month. It does this by 
removing the PPI premium each month, which in turn shows how much less the monthly 
balance could have been if the PPI wasnt added. It then works out how much extra interest 
was charged because of the PPI, if Mr Q paid any extra in a given month because of the PPI 
and whether any other fees were charged because of the PPI.
Mr Q says he is entitled to compensation on the 20%-plus interest he says he was charged 
on the credit card debit account over the term of the policy. He says the full debit balance of 
the account was PPI payments levied and interest accrued. 
The way Barclays has reconstructed Mr Qs account shows that by May 2008, if the PPI 
hadnt been added and hed made the same repayments that he did, he might have had a 
zero balance by that point. The calculation does suggest Mr Q made other purchases at 
times after this, and again without PPI he might have cleared these purchases relatively 
quickly. But Barclays has taken this into account and has worked out that almost 80% of all 
the interest charged to the account was because of the PPI and has refunded this. 
Barclays has also looked at when Mr Q was out of pocket because of the PPI. The 
reconstruction of the account applies 8% simple interest per annum worked out monthly 
whenever Mr Q paid more in a month because of the PPI. This is worked out up until the 
date of settlement.
After considering the calculations and how Barclays has reconstructed his account, overall, I 
am satisfied that it is how I would expect a business to put right a PPI mis-sale complaint. 
Mr Q has said that he suffered other financial losses on his bank account and other credit 
cards because of this PPI policy. I have considered Mr Qs points, but Barclays has included 
what Id expect it to when compensating a customer for mis-selling a PPI policy. In order to 
hold Barclays responsible for the effect the PPI had on unrelated accounts I need to be 
persuaded that any additional loss was directly caused by this PPI policy. Having reviewed 
everything, I havent been provided with any information to show the PPI policy sold by 
Barclays directly caused any financial loss that Mr Q hasnt been compensated for. 
 
Im aware my decision will be a disappointment to Mr Q. He clearly thinks he should be 
entitled to more compensation than has already been offered by Barclays. But, as explained 
above, I am satisfied that what has been offered and paid by Barclays is fair compensation 
and in line with what we would expect to see when a business has to put right a mis-sold PPI 
policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont uphold Mr Qs complaint, so I dont make any further 
award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman