DRN-2106968
The complaint
Mr N complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax sent a transfer to the wrong 
account. 
What happened
On 6 March 2020 Mr N visited Halifax to transfer £36,000 to an account he holds in Russia. 
Mr N has told us that he took written confirmation of the account he wanted Halifax to 
transfer his funds to with him and gave it to the counter staff. Mr N says the counter staff 
instead used an existing payee on his account and sent the £36,000 there. Halifax says Mr 
N checked the account details before the transfer was sent. 
After a receipt was printed, Mr N advised the payment had been sent to the wrong account. 
The branch staff then started the process of trying to get Mr Ns funds back.
On 26 May 2020 a transfer of £33,231.05 was received back into Mr Ns account. Halifax 
has confirmed the difference was caused by movements in exchange rates between the 
currency conversions. Halifax issued its final response to Mr N on 9 June 2020 and 
apologised for the delay, paying him £150. But Halifax didnt agree to refund the difference 
between transfers and said it had done its best to recover Mr Ns funds. Mr N referred his 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator thought Halifaxs settlement of £150 was fair and didnt ask it to take any 
further action. Mr N asked to appeal and said he hadnt been asked to check the account 
details before the transfer was processed. As Mr N asked to appeal, his complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how distressing this situation was for Mr N. The sums involved were large 
and I can appreciate that not knowing where his money was for over two months was very 
frustrating. In addition, Mr N £2,768.95 less back when the transfer was returned. I need to 
look at the available evidence and decide whether Halifax has done enough to resolve Mr 
Ns complaint and whether it should increase the award to cover Mr Ns loss. 
The issue here is that both parties have provided very different versions of what happened in 
branch on 6 March 2020. There is no CCTV available and no direct record of what was 
discussed or the instructions Mr N gave. Where the circumstances of a complaint are 
disputed, Ill base my decision on the balance of probability. That is, what I consider most 
likely to have happened based on all the available information. 
Mr N has told us that when he visited the branch he took written instructions for the account 
he wanted to send the transfer to. Mr N says the advisor took his written instructions but then 
sent the transfer to an existing payee, linked to his bank account. 
Halifax accepts that Mr N had a document written in Russian with him when he visited the 
branch. But Halifax says that the advisor Mr N dealt with identified an account on its systems 
and specifically asked Mr N to check the details and confirm they were correct. Halifax says 
that because of the size of the transfer, it had to be approved by a branch manager. Halifax 
says that the branch manager asked Mr N whether he had checked the details and to 
confirm they were correct. The branch manager says Mr N confirmed the account details 
used were correct and that the transfer could go. 
Both Mr N and Halifaxs branch staff have given detailed and clear recollections of what 
happened. Im sorry to disappoint Mr N but I havent been persuaded to uphold his 
complaint. On balance, I think Halifax did ask him to check and confirm the account details 
the advisor had input. I say this because, its standard procedure for transfer details to be 
confirmed by a customer when sending funds. And, Halifax says that for large transfers, like 
this one, the branch manager also has to confirm the transaction details with the account 
holder. Here, the branch manager has told us that before the transfer was sent, Mr N 
confirmed he had checked the account details and was happy to proceed. I think its very 
unlikely that both members of staff would have failed to follow Halifaxs standard approach 
when arranging a transfer. I think its more likely than not that the account information was 
checked with Mr N before the transfer was sent. 
I suspect that there was as genuine error in this case that led to the wrong account details 
being used, but Im not persuaded that the error was caused by Halifaxs actions.
On 6 March 2020 Halifax started the process of trying to get Mr Ns funds back from the 
Russian bank. The funds took until 26 May 2020 to come back and Mr N received £2,768.95 
less due to currency differences. I can see that Halifax actively tried to get Mr Ns money 
back and that the return transfer was paid into his account at the earliest opportunity. I 
appreciate that the uncertainty Mr N experienced during that period was very stressful. But 
Im satisfied Halifax did use its best endeavours to try and get Mr Ns money back. 
Halifax paid Mr N £150 for delays in responding to his complaint and I think thats 
reasonable in all the circumstances. For the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied Halifax 
has dealt with Mr Ns complaint fairly, so Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman