DRN-1888262
The complaint
Mr D complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money (MCF) lent to him 
in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr D took one loan from MCF. He borrowed £2,000 in July 2017 and agreed to repay the 
loan in 24 monthly instalments. Around a year after taking the loan Mr D appears to have 
found it difficult to make his repayments and started making token repayments each month. 
At the time he made the complaint Mr D still had a balance outstanding on his loan and 
I understand that MCF has now sold the debt to a third party.
Mr Ds complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that the 
checks MCF had done before agreeing the loan had been sufficient. But he thought that 
even the checks MCF did were enough to show it was unlikely that Mr D would be able to 
sustainably afford the repayments. So he thought the complaint should be upheld and asked 
MCF to pay Mr D some compensation.
MCF didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr D accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Ds complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time MCF gave this loan to Mr D required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so MCF had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr D. In practice this 
meant that MCF had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr D undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for MCF to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr D. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether MCF did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr D.
MCF gathered some information from Mr D before it agreed the loan. It asked him for details 
of his income, and his normal expenditure although this was declared as just £70. It then 
used some industry statistical data to revise Mr Ds declared expenditure upwards. And it 
checked his credit file to assess how much he was repaying to other creditors. And from that 
MCF estimated that Mr Ds true expenditure was around £533 each month.
Mr D was entering into a significant commitment with MCF. He would need to make monthly 
repayments for a period of two years. The information that MCF saw on the credit report and 
from its own industry estimates of expenditure suggested that Mr D had grossly 
underdeclared his expenditure. His credit report showed that hed taken a large number of 
short term loans in the months before his application to MCF  and a number of those loans 
were still outstanding when MCF checked Mr Ds credit file. I think that information should 
have caused great concern to MCF and it should have gone further to build a detailed 
picture of Mr Ds true financial situation. I dont think the checks it did were proportionate.
But even based on the checks that MCF did, I dont think the loan should have been agreed. 
It was apparent from his credit file that Mr D was not managing his finances well. He was 
taking a large number of short term loans repeatedly. I think it is reasonable to conclude that 
he was using new borrowing to help meet his repayments on earlier loans. So he wasnt 
repaying his borrowing in a sustainable manner. 
From MCFs own calculations Mr D would only be left with just over £64 each month after 
repaying his new borrowing. It is unlikely that MCFs calculations fairly took account of all the 
expenditure Mr D was likely to face, and in particular those items that might occur on an 
irregular basis. It would only take an unexpected emergency, or a small change in his 
income, to leave Mr D unable to meet his repayments. And he was committing to repaying 
this loan for a period of two years. I dont think it was reasonable of MCF to conclude that 
Mr D had sufficient disposable income to sustainably repay this new borrowing.
I have considered that MCF says a more recent check of Mr Ds credit file suggests he used 
its loan to consolidate some other borrowing. And Id agree that might have reduced his 
expenditure. But it doesnt seem that Mr D gave MCF any indication, or assurance, that he 
would use the loan for this purpose. And given what MCF could see about the frequency of 
Mr Ds previous borrowing from other lenders I dont think it could have reasonably concluded that any reduction in Mr Ds other borrowing would be anything other than a 
temporary measure.
So I dont think that MCF should have agreed to give this loan to Mr D. MCF needs to pay 
him some compensation.
Putting things right
I dont think MCF should have agreed to lend to Mr D on 27 July 2017. I understand that 
MCF has now sold Mr Ds debt to a third party. If possible MCF should take that debt back 
into its own books and do the following;
remove any interest and charges (including any added by the third party) still 
outstanding on the loan and treat all the payments Mr D made towards this loan 
(including any made to the third party) as payments towards the capital
if reworking Mr Ds loan account as Ive directed results in Mr D effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then MCF should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement. 
If reworking Mr Ds loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
I remind MCF that it should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr D for the revised balance
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ds credit file (including any added 
by the third party) in relation to the loan.
Should MCF be unable, or unwilling, to take the debt back into its own books it should;
make a payment to Mr D equivalent to all the interest and charges added to his loan, 
including any interest and charges added by the third party
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
liaise with the third party to remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ds 
credit file (including any added by the third party) in relation to the loan.
It will then by up to Mr D to decide whether to use this compensation payment to reduce, or 
repay, his debt with the third party.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MCF to take off tax from this interest. MCF must give 
Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint and direct Madison CF UK Limited to put 
things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman