DRN-2866524
The complaint
Mr W complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream didnt carry out proper 
affordability checks before lending to him.
What happened
Mr W was provided with a loan for £200 by Lending Stream in March 2019. The loan was 
repayable over six monthly instalments. Mr W says that the loan was unaffordable and that 
had proper checks taken place Lending Stream wouldnt have lent to him.
Lending Stream issued a final response letter dated 29 April 2020. It says that before the 
loan was provided it gathered information about Mr Ws income and expenses and carried 
out a credit check. It says that based on its checks the loan was affordable for Mr W.
Mr W didnt accept Lending Streams final response and referred his complaint to this 
service. Lending Stream initially said that the complaint was referred more than six months 
after the date of the final response letter but then agreed to the merits of this complaint being 
considered.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. He noted that only one loan was provided to 
Mr W and thought the checks carried out before the loan was provided were adequate. As 
these didnt suggest the loan was unaffordable he didnt think he could say it shouldnt have 
bene provided.
Mr W didnt accept our adjudicators view. He said that although this was his first loan with 
Lending Stream his credit file showed he was making late payments on his other credit 
commitments. He reiterated that he believed adequate checks didnt take place and had they 
happened the loan wouldnt have been provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr W could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr W could sustainably repay his loan - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W was provided with only one loan by Lending Stream. This was for £200 repayable over 
six monthly instalments. As set out above, Lending Stream had to carry out proportionate 
checks and I think the checks of Mr Ws income and expenses were adequate at this stage 
in the lending relationship. 
I have looked through the information that was provided and Mr W declared a monthly 
income of £2,000 and expenses of £850 including credit commitments of £425. It is not 
unusual that a consumer requesting this type of loan will have some adverse information 
recorded on their credit file. Lending Streams credit search recorded that Mr W had no 
defaulted or delinquent accounts in the previous 12 months, and while I note Mr Ws 
comments about late payments on his other accounts, I do not find the results of the credit 
search meant that further investigation was needed.
Overall, while I understand why Mr W feels the loan shouldnt have been provided, having 
considered the size of the repayments compared to Mr Ws declared income and that this 
was only the first loan, I think the checks carried out were proportionate. Had Mr W 
continued to borrow from Lending Stream then further checks would have become 
necessary. However, in this case I find the checks were adequate and as these suggested 
the loan was affordable I do not find I can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman