DRN-2654562
The complaint
Mr F and Miss S complain that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. declined their claim against their travel insurance policy. They also 
complaint about how Mapfre handled their claim. Reference to Mapfre includes reference to 
its agents. 
What happened
In July 2019, Mr F and Miss S began booking a trip. They booked flights and 
accommodation separately. Their intended departure and return dates were                   
20 September 2019 and 4 October 2019 respectively.         
On 4 September 2019, Miss S bought an annual travel insurance policy from Mapfre.   
Mr F was an additional traveller on that policy. He didnt declare any health conditions. 
The policy had a start date of 20 September 2019.
On 9 September 2019, Mr F began suffering from a severe headache which affected his 
normal function. His headache got worse and on 12 September 2019, he sought an 
appointment with his GP. On 19 September 2019, Mr F saw his GP who prescribed 
medication for migraine and said that she would review Mr Fs condition after the trip.   
Mr Fs condition deteriorated later that day and Miss S said that he could do no more 
than lie still. Mr F and Miss S cancelled their trip. Ill refer to the date of cancellation in 
more detail below.  
On 25 September 2019, Mr F was diagnosed with cervicogenic headaches. Mr F and 
Miss S subsequently made a claim against their travel insurance policy. In October 2019, 
Mr F was diagnosed with severe hypothyroidism.
Mapfre declined the claim. It said that the policy start date was 20 September 2019, so 
the policy only covered incidents from that date onwards. In response to Miss S 
complaint, Mapfre said that as Mr Fs symptoms began before the policy start date, the 
claim wasnt covered. It said that it could have handled the claim better and offered 
compensation of £150 in relation to that. 
Mr F and Miss S say that they didnt cancel the trip until 20 September 2019, so after the 
policy start date. They say that Mapfres decision making  and rationale was patronising 
and insulting. Mr F and Miss S want a full apology and compensation.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that Mapfre was 
at fault in declining the claim. That was because before the start date of the policy, it was 
clear that the trip would need to be cancelled. The investigator relied on the medical 
report of 2 October 2019, completed by Mr Fs GP. He said that the compensation 
Mapfre had already offered in relation to its handling of the claim was fair. 
Mr F and Miss S didnt agree with the investigator and said, in summary:
They didnt cancel the trip until 20 September 2019.
Mr Fs GP didnt state that Mr Fs headaches started to deteriorate seriously on 
19 September 2019: she said that she advised that the trip should be cancelled 
on 25 September 2019, after the start date of their policy. 
When Mr F saw his GP on 19 September 2019, his headache was manageable. 
It was only in the early hours of 20 September 2019 that he felt too unwell to 
travel. 
Mr Fs GP has said that the writing on the medical certificate dated                       
2 October 2019 isnt hers.
Mr F and Miss S provided a further report from Mr Fs GP in which she said that she 
didnt advise cancellation of the trip when she saw Mr F in the morning of                      
19 September 2019 and that his condition worsened later that day.
The investigator considered what had been said but didnt change his view. He said that 
it remained the case that cancellation of the trip was a result of a condition which started 
before the start date of the policy.
Mr F and Miss S provided a further report from Mr Fs GP in which she said that when 
she saw him on 19 September 2019 he didnt seem unduly troubled by the headache but 
by the time he went to hospital on 24 September 2019 it was apparently much worse. 
A second investigator reviewed the complaint and came to the same view as the first 
investigator. 
Mr F and Miss S didnt agree with the investigators views and asked that an 
ombudsman consider their complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant part of which says as 
follows: 
Period of Insurance
[]
Cover for cancellation starts from the date you book your trip or pay the insurance premium, 
whichever is the later, unless you have bought an annual multi-trip policy in which case 
cover for cancellation starts at the time you book your trip or the start date shown on your 
validation certificate, whichever is the later. [] 
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Mapfre has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.I  have considerable sympathy for the position Mr F and Miss S found themselves in. 
Through no fault of their own, they had to cancel their trip because of Mr Fs ill-health. But 
Im not upholding Mr F and Miss S complaint because I dont think that Mapfre treated them  
unfairly in declining their claim. And I think that the compensation Mapfre has already offered 
in relation to its handling of Mr F and Miss S claim is fair. I say that because:
Miss S says that she didnt choose the start date of the policy. Mapfre has provided a 
screen shot of the part of the sales process relating to the start date of the policy.    
Mr F and Miss S would have been asked:
When do you want your cover to start? 
Youll be covered for cancellation from the date you choose below. 
There was a drop-down box from which to select the start date. On balance, I think 
its more likely than not that Mr F and Miss S chose the start date of                          
20 September 2019. I see no reason why the start date of the policy would have 
been chosen for them. 
Cancellation cover starts on 20 September 2019, which is the start date of the policy, 
as shown in the certificate. 
I dont think that Mapfre acted unfairly and unreasonably in declining the claim on the 
basis that the events which led to the cancellation of the trip occurred before the start 
date of the policy. In doing so, it relied on what Mr F and Miss S said and provided 
when they made their claim. 
In Miss S covering letter to Mapfre dated 29 September 2019, she said that Mr F 
became unable to travel on 19 September 2019. She said that late on                      
19 September 2019, they decided not to travel and informed Miss S parents of that 
(Miss S father was providing them with a lift to the airport early the next morning). 
In the claim form, in answer to the question Date and time you became aware of the 
need to cancel your holiday, Mr F and Miss S answered 19/09/19 and 23.11pm. 
That was before cover under the policy was in place. 
In the medical certificate dated 2 October 2019 from Mr Fs GP, she said that Mr Fs 
headaches started on 9 September 2019, deteriorated on 19.9.10 (PM) and that it 
first became apparent that the holiday should be cancelled on 19 September 2019.
I dont think that Mapfre acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining the claim on the 
basis that the events which led to the cancellation of the trip occurred before the start 
date of the policy on 20 September 2019.
Mr F and Miss S say that they didnt take steps to cancel the trip until                         
20 September 2019. I dont have any supporting evidence of that as they have 
provided a response from an airline on 20 September 2019 at 12.19 am, but not   
Miss S email to the airline cancelling the flights. In any event, the date on which Mr F 
and Miss S took steps to cancel the flights and accommodation doesnt alter the 
outcome here, as the fact remains that Mr Fs change in health, which led to the 
cancellation, occurred before the start date of the policy. The available information doesnt support Mr F and Miss S assertion that Mr Fs 
condition didnt deteriorate until the early hours of 20 September 2019. In her letter to 
Mapfre of 29 September 2019 in support of her claim, Miss S said that Mr F began 
experiencing severe head pain on 9 September 2019, which gradually got worse. 
She said that Mr Fs condition deteriorated on 19 September 2019 and that they 
decided to cancel their trip late that evening and phoned Miss S parents to advise 
them of that. Miss S said that on some occasions, Mr F was unable to move or 
function due to the pain and that on 19 September 2019, he could do nothing but lie 
still, as the slightest movement caused excruciating pain.  
Miss S says that Mr Fs GP said that the writing on the medical certificate dated        
2 October 2019 isnt hers. We havent heard directly from Mr Fs GP on this point.    
Mr Fs GP signed the medical certificate and is therefore responsible for its contents.   
I dont think that Mapfre acted unfairly or unreasonably in relying on it.  
Ive considered the two further medical reports provided by Mr Fs GP. I dont think 
that those reports change the outcome here, as it remains the case that the events 
which let to cancellation of the trip started before the policy was in force. 
Mapfre acknowledges that it took too long in dealing with the claim and put Miss S to 
the trouble of providing additional information that didnt change the outcome. It also 
acknowledges that on one occasion it used inappropriate terminology. I think that the 
compensation that Mapfre has already offered in relation to these matters is fair. In 
reaching that view, Ive taken into account the nature, extent and effect of the matters 
Mapfre got wrong. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr F and Miss S complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr F and Miss S complaint. If they wish to accept the 
compensation Mapfre has already offered, they should contact it direct.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman