DRN-2801749
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release lifetime mortgage that Mrs W took out in 2015, 
together with her husband. They borrowed the money from Just Retirement Limited. Sadly, 
Mr W died in 2020; Mrs W now wishes to repay the mortgage, and argues that a term in the 
mortgage allows her to do so without incurring an early repayment charge (ERC). Mrs W is 
represented by her daughter, Ms N.
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented, 
using my own words. No discourtesys intended by that; its a reflection of the informal 
service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Mrs W took the mortgage out in 2015, jointly with Mr W. The terms of the mortgage provide 
that no monthly repayments are required. The intention is that the mortgage will not need to 
be repaid until the last surviving borrower goes into full-time nursing care or after their death. 
It can be repaid voluntarily before either of those events has happened, but then an early 
repayment charge (ERC) is payable. 
Interest on the loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance and is compounded until the 
debt is repaid. All of this means that if the loan runs for a number of years, there can be a 
significant balance to be repaid. 
After Mr W died, Mrs W asked to repay the mortgage, and Just told her shed incur an ERC if 
she did so, unless it was because she was leaving the house to moving into care.  Ms N 
doesnt agree; shes referenced a term in the mortgage contract that she believes has the 
effect of allowing the ERC to be waived following Mr Ws death.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld; Ms N asked for the case to be 
referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the specifics of the complaint.
As I said earlier, if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).  We 
deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides 
instructions on how we investigate a complaint, or when we have enough information on file 
to decide it.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms N has argued Mrs Ws case in considerable detail, much of it quite technical, and clearly 
thoroughly-researched. However, this is a case that turns on a rather more straightforward 
point. Ill explain why.
The term Ms N relies on in support of Mrs Ws complaint is in section 13 of the mortgage 
offer, and I reproduce it below.
Circumstances in which early repayment charges do not apply
You will not have to pay an early repayment charge if:
You (or you both) have died or have left your home to move permanently into a care 
home, or to be cared for by relatives
You want to move home and your new property meets our lending conditions at the time, 
provided that you transfer the mortgage to the new property
You have to make a part repayment because you move to a home of lesser value, 
provided that you transfer the mortgage to the new property
The underlining is mine, as this is the key phrase. Ms N says the phrase you (or you both) 
can be interpreted to mean if either Mr W or Mrs W die, the ERC wont apply. I can see why 
she might think that but this phrase has to be taken in context, not in isolation. 
This is a generic contract used for both single and joint borrowers. It envisages that the ERC 
will not be payable when the last of the borrowers (you if single, you both if joint) leaves 
the property. 
Elsewhere in the contract, the word you is defined as The Policyholder and (where 
applicable) the Trustees. 
(The policyholder is the borrower.)
The contract also says:
Except where the context otherwise requires words denoting the singular include the plural 
and vice versa; words denoting any one gender include all genders; words denoting persons 
include firms and corporations and vice versa.
When Mr W was alive, you meant both he and Mrs W collectively; now that Mr W has died, 
the term means Mrs W alone. So, at the time Mrs W made the request to repay the 
mortgage, she was the sole policyholder, because Mr W had already died, making her the 
last surviving borrower. Therefore, for Just to agree to a request that the mortgage be repaid 
without incurring an ERC, it would have to be because Mrs W had died or left her home to 
move permanently into a care home, or to be cared for by relatives.
The inclusion of the words (or you both) merely envisaged a situation where the request to 
repay the mortgage was made whilst Mr W was still alive; for example, because he and 
Mrs W were leaving their home together to move permanently into a care home or to be 
cared for by relatives.So although Ive noted everything Ms N has said, Im afraid I dont agree with her that no 
ERC is payable if Mrs W repays the mortgage voluntarily.
Mrs W doesnt have to accept my conclusions, and if she doesnt, then neither she nor Just 
will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court 
might impose, Mrs Ws right to take legal action against Just over the subject matter of this 
complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman