DRN-1640656
 
Complaint
Mr M complains that he wasnt made aware of the amount of ongoing charges that Standard 
Life Assurance Limited applied to his investments.
Background
In May 2008, on the advice of a financial advisor, Mr M surrendered a Standard Life bond, 
which he had taken out in 2000. He invested the surrender proceeds into a new Standard 
Life single premium capital investment bond. 
In August 2019, Standard Life sent Mr M his annual statement. When reviewing the 
statement Mr M noticed that it detailed a monetary cost of the charges that had been 
deducted from his bond. He complained to Standard Life because he wasnt aware that he 
was being charged each year and he didnt think this was fair. He also raised a complaint 
with the independent financial advisor who sold him the bond. 
Standard Life responded to the complaint. It said the charges were made up of fund 
management charges and additional expenses. It said nothing had changed in terms of the 
charges being applied, it was just the way they were expressed. It referred to changes in 
regulation, meaning it was required to show these charges as a monetary figure  and this is 
why Mr Ms most recent statement was now giving details of a monetary figure for charges. It 
said it wasnt able to provide the monetary amounts for the charges applied in previous 
years to his investments. It also said Mr M would need to contact the advisor who sold him 
the bond if he was concerned how the charges were explained to him when he took it out. 
Mr M remained unhappy with Standard Lifes response, so he brought his complaint to this 
service. One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. She felt that Standard Life had 
acted fairly in how it applied the charges. She explained that it wasnt responsible for the 
advice to take out the bond or the explanation of charges. 
Mr M didnt agree and asked for his case to be passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
At the outset, I think its worth explaining investment products often have ongoing fees and 
charges associated with them. Typical charges will include things like fund management 
charges, which are deducted from the value of the investment in order to cover the costs of 
managing, researching and selecting investments for the fund. These charges are very 
common place with the bonds like the ones Mr M has held with Standard Life. Responsibility 
for telling Mr M about charges lay with the person who advised him to invest in the bond. I note he has made a separate complaint to the independent financial advisor who sold him 
the bond.
Ive looked at the original illustration produced when Mr M received advice in 2008 to take 
out the bond. This document provides information on the charges that are applicable to Mr 
Ms bond. They include details of the fund management charges and other expenses that 
will be deducted and are described as a percentage of the fund value. These are the 
charges that Mr M queried when making his complaint. I havent seen anything to suggest 
these charges have been applied unfairly by Standard Life.  
Ive considered Mr Ms comments about not being aware of exactly how much he was being 
charged until his most recent statement. Standard Life has explained that this is because of 
changes to requirements on businesses made by the regulator of the financial services 
industry  the Financial Conduct Authority. It is correct that regulatory changes came in to 
force in 2018, part of which required businesses to give consumers a full breakdown of all 
fees and charges related to an investment on an ongoing basis. This is why Mr M saw a 
change in the format of how charges were explained in his annual statements. So from his 
2019 annual statement it was now clearer how much in terms of pounds and pence Mr M 
was paying. But Standard Life is correct to say that it wasnt required to breakdown charges 
in this way previously. So I dont think it has done anything wrong in this respect. I 
appreciate that Mr M would like a full monetary breakdown year by year but Standard Life 
wasnt required to keep this information. So, I dont think it is reasonable for me to ask it to 
go back and to try to provide this information. 
In summary, Ive considered Mr Ms view that Standard Life has treated him unfairly by 
deducting charges from his bond but I dont think the balance of evidence supports this to be 
case. These types of charges are very common with investments and from what Ive seen, 
Standard Life has fairly applied them in line with the terms of the bond. The difference in how 
this information is now communicated to Mr M was as a result of a change in regulation, so I 
dont think Standard Life did anything wrong by not using this format sooner. I know that this 
will disappoint Mr M but I dont think Standard Life needs to do anything further.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Daniel Little
Ombudsman