DRN-3587972
The complaint
Mr M complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out sufficient checks before it 
granted loans which he couldnt afford to repay. 
Mr M went on to say, that at the time these loans were granted he was subject to a Debt 
Management Plan (DMP) and had three defaults on his credit file.
 
What happened
Mr M took two loans from Morses between January 2014 and July 2014. Ive summarised 
some of the information provided from Morses about these loans in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £400.00 21/01/2014 13/01/2015 50 £14.00
2 £300.00 30/07/2014 21/07/2015 50 £10.50
The weekly repayment column is the cost per week per loan. These loans were running at 
the same time which meant Mr Ms largest weekly contractual repayment to Morses 
wouldve been £24.50.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator and she didnt uphold it. She said Morses 
had to carry out a proportionate check before it approved these loans. But she went on to 
explain that due to the amount of time that has passed since the loans were granted there 
was limit information, so she couldnt say, for example what Mr M declared to Morses before 
these loans were granted. 
She also couldnt say whether Mr M had declared to Morses he was in a DMP (and she 
didnt know whether Morses was or likely aware of this). In addition, Mr M wasnt able to 
provide bank statements from 2014 and therefore she wasnt able to determine whether 
Morses was right or wrong to have approved these loans. 
The adjudicator explained the repayment history for the loans (both before and while they 
overlapped) didnt indicate that Mr M was having financial difficulties. 
Morses didnt respond to or acknowledge the adjudicators assessment. 
Mr M didnt agree with the outcome, in response he said (verbatim): 
So now I want an ombudsman to look at my original complaint as in the final 
response from morses [sic] club state "adequate checks were made" which is vague, 
and because as a consumer I'm exercising my option for an ombudsman to review 
the case.
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been referred for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr M could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. Morsess checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ms income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors include:
Mr M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr M.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr M was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ms complaint.
As part of his referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, Mr M made further comments 
around the issuing of the final response letter, the address it was sent to and the time that he 
has spent chasing and dealing with Morses. 
The adjudicator explained that a new complaint will be set up, and I can see from our 
records that a new complaint (and reference number) has been set up to deal with those 
points. So, I say no more about those issues in this decision. 
This decision will solely deal with the unaffordable lending complaint about Mr Ms two loans. Having considered everything, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint and Ive explained my 
reasons for doing so below. 
To begin with it may be helpful if I explain that any decision I come to is based on firstly what 
evidence both parties are able to provide and secondly if information is contradictory or 
missing than I would make a finding on what I think is most likely to have happened. This is 
consistent within the fair and reasonable remint that I must follow. 
This is important because in this case there isnt very much information available for me to 
consider about the checks that Morses may (or may not) have carried out before the loans 
were carried out. 
From my experience, of working these cases, I think its likely that before both of these loans 
were approved Morses wouldve asked Mr M what his weekly income was as well as what 
his weekly expenditure was. This wouldve given Morses an idea as to whether Mr M could 
afford these loans repayments. 
Its worth saying here that given the value of these loans and it was the start of the lending 
relationship, Morses wouldve been entitled to have relied upon the information Mr M gave 
except where there was something that obviously couldnt be correct. For example, 
Mr M may have declared that he was in rented accommodation and yet declared that he 
didnt pay rent. In that situation (and I am not saying it applies here) Id have expected 
Morses to have made further enquires.
But in this case, due to the passage of time, Morses hasnt been able to provide the 
Financial Ombudsman Service with the detail that it likely took at the time. This isnt unusual 
in as much as the final loans were repaid over seven years ago. 
Mr M was asked to provide bank statements from around the time these loans were 
approved, in order to understand what his income and expenditure was at the time. 
However, Mr M hasnt been able to provide details of his statements, so I dont know from 
this what his financial position was likely to have been at the time. So, this means I dont 
know what Mr M likely declared to Morses and I cant say what Mr Ms actual situation was 
at the time either, as there is no evidence. 
It also isnt clear whether Morses did carry out a credit search before these loans were 
granted. If one was carried out, then the results arent available, so I dont know exactly what 
it wouldve received from the credit reference agencies. 
It is worth saying here that although Morses may have carried out a credit search there isnt 
a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. So, Morses may 
have only asked about specific questions around for example the number of outstanding 
credit accounts. So, I wont know for example, whether this check (that may not have been 
done) wouldve highlighted that Mr M was subject to a DMP.  
If Morses hadnt carried out a credit check, as there was no regulatory requirement to carry 
out one than I wouldnt be able to say that was a reasons to lead me to either uphold the 
complaint or conclude that Morses needed to carry out further or more in-depth checks. 
It also isnt clear, as the adjudicator pointed out, that Mr M declared to Morses that he was 
subject to a DMP and its not clear whether this wouldve been discovered by a proportionate 
check. So, I cant uphold Mr Ms complaint solely because he was subject to a DMP at the 
time.Indeed, even if Morses was aware of the DMP, that alone may not have been enough to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint, it may have been an aggravating factor that ought to have led 
Morses to carry out further checks. 
Finally, looking at the statement of account that I have been provided, there is nothing in the 
repayment of loan 1 which wouldve prompted Morses to have carried out further checks 
before it approved loan 2. 
Its also clear from the statement of account that these loans ran concurrently. This meant 
that loan 2 wasnt used to settle loan 1.
Overall, Ive not seen enough to say the checks Morses carried out werent proportionate 
and / or highlighted that Mr M couldnt afford his contractual repayments. I also havent seen 
enough to make me think Morses was aware of Mr Ms DMP. Therefore, based on the limit 
information I have to hand I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by the outcome but I hope my explanation as 
provided to be useful for him. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman