DRN-4025866
The complaint
T, a limited company, complains that Metro Bank PLC wont refund money its director lost to 
a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Ts director, Mr R, made some payments from his own personal account with a third-party 
bank (subject of a separate complaint) to what he believed to be a legitimate investment 
company. He then made payments from Ts business banking account to what he believed 
was another company who said they could help Mr R get back the funds hed initially lost. 
Unbeknown to Mr R at the time, he was actually dealing with fraudsters.
Metro has declined to offer Mr R a refund of the payments that left Ts business account. 
Mr R complained and the matter was referred to our service. One of our Investigators looked 
into things, but they didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. They said they 
werent persuaded that T had suffered a loss in these circumstances. 
Mr R, on behalf of T, disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to make a decision. So, the 
complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is solely in relation to the payments that left Ts business account. In these 
circumstances, T is the eligible complainant. As the director, Mr R can represent T, but 
personally he is considered a separate legal entity, distinct from T. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr R made the payments from Ts business account that went to the 
fraudsters. Mr R had authority to make these payments, on behalf of T. So, the starting 
position here is that Metro ought to have followed the instructions it was provided with and 
processed the payments. 
Based on everything Ive seen; the money being paid from Ts account was to try and 
recover funds for a personal investment Mr R had made. The initial scam payments were 
made from his own personal account with another bank and Mr R hasnt provided any 
evidence to demonstrate or suggest that the investment or its recovery was being made by T 
in its own capacity. Based on this, Im satisfied that, on balance, the spending on Ts account 
was for the purposes of Mr Rs own personal gain, rather than for any business-related 
purposes. 
Broadly speaking there are two potential scenarios in relation to the debt created by the 
spending on Ts account. Firstly, that this was, in effect, T lending money to Mr R personally. 
If Mr R had borrowed money in this way from T for personal gain, then he would be liable to 
repay that debt to the company. In this situation T cant fairly be considered to have suffered 
a loss, as it is still owed the money by Mr R as the debtor in these circumstances. 
The second potential scenario is that by spending on Ts account in this way, T was 
discharging some debt owed to Mr T. Be that a dividend payment, wages or similar. But in 
this situation, again, T hasnt suffered a loss. The debt has been discharged and Mr R was 
provided with what he was owed (which he then paid to the fraudulent companies). 
Metro do have obligations to be alert to fraud and scams. But setting all those obligations 
aside, I dont think the fair and reasonable outcome here is to tell Metro it needs to do more. 
Whichever approach I take to the spending on Ts account, Im not persuaded that T itself 
has suffered a loss. So even if I were to conclude that there had been a clear and obvious 
failing by Metro in its handling of matters, it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to ask it 
to do more. This is because any failures that might have occurred didnt cause a loss to T. 
As such, Im not directing Metro to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman