DRN-2183717
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy with Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd.s handling of the insurance renewal for 
her buildings and contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs P received a renewal quote from Triton in April 2019, to renew her buildings and 
contents insurance policy. To ensure her policy remained in force, Mrs P paid the full 
premium before the renewal date. The amount paid was £396.48.
When her policy reached its renewal date in April 2020, Mrs P hadnt heard from Triton or 
received her renewal quote. She tried to contact Triton to find out why, but she was unable 
to get through to anyone. Mrs P made some enquiries and found out her insurer had 
stopped working with Triton at the end of January 2019, and the policy Mrs P paid for in 
April 2019 hadnt been renewed. Nor had her renewal payment been passed onto the 
insurer.
As Mrs P had been unable to speak to Triton previously, she brought her complaint straight 
to our service. 
Our investigator asked Triton to provide their response. They didnt so the investigator 
upheld the complaint for Mrs P. He asked Triton to refund the premium of £396.48, pay 
interest on that amount and pay Mrs P £100 compensation for the upset the matter had 
caused her.
As Triton didnt respond to our investigators opinion, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information is incomplete, Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities, 
or whats most likely to have happened. In this case, Triton havent provided our service with 
any information, so my decision is based solely on what Mrs P has provided. I find her 
information plausible and persuasive.
Mrs P paid Triton before her policy renewed in April 2019 to ensure her policy remained 
active. And, once she was aware that she didnt have any insurance cover in force, she 
made sure she sought cover with an alternative insurer.
Mrs Ps original insurer cancelled their agreement with Triton in January 2019. Unfortunately, 
Triton havent responded to our request for information so I cant provide Mrs P with an 
explanation as to why the error occurred. But Im satisfied Triton shouldnt have offered 
Mrs P any insurance cover with the original insurer. And they should have refunded the 
money Mrs P paid to them.
Given this, its reasonable for Triton to refund the premium paid by Mrs P. Mrs P has also 
confirmed that she tried to speak to Triton several times, and she wasnt able to get through 
to anyone. Because of this upset, its also reasonable for Triton to pay Mrs P £100 
compensation. I think this amount fairly recognises the inconvenience and upset caused in 
this case.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd must:
Pay Mrs P her premium of £396.48;
Pay interest at eight per cent simple on the amount due from the date Mrs P paid for 
her insurance policy to the date this amount is paid; *
Pay Mrs P £100 compensation for the upset shes been caused.
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd deducts 
income tax from the interest it should tell Mrs P how much has been taken off. Triton 
Insurance Brokers Ltd should give Mrs P a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so 
she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman