DRN-3783744
The complaint
Ms G is complaining that Barclays Bank UK PLC is asking her to repay debts that she says it 
previously wrote off.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to all parties, so I wont set them out in detail. But, 
in summary, Ms G is complaining Barclays are chasing her for a number of debts that she 
says it told her it had written off. Barclays disputes that it told her it had written these debts 
off as it says she still owes this money and says the debts had been passed to its recovery 
team.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint as he said he hadnt seen anything to show 
Barclays had written the debts off. He acknowledged Ms G had provided detailed testimony 
and call recordings. But he said a lot of the information Ms G had provided was in regard to 
her mortgage account which wasnt subject to this complaint. However, he said, even if 
Barclays had incorrectly told Ms G the debts were written off, it doesnt mean that it cant 
require her to repay the money as she does owe what it was asking her to pay. He said our 
role is to put things right where things go wrong  i.e. put Ms G in the position shed be in if 
Barclays hadnt said the debts were written off (if it had actually said this). And he thought 
Ms G would still have owed this money had it not given her incorrect information.
Ms G didnt agree with the investigator and provided a detailed response about why. In 
summary, she said shed provided a lot of evidence to show that shed been told the debts 
were written off and she thought the investigator had ignored this. She maintained that 
Barclays had clearly told her it had written off all of her debts and that it would clear her 
credit file of records of the debts. She provided detailed testimony about when and how she 
believes she was told this. So she maintains it shouldnt be chasing her for them now.
As Ms G didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Ms G feels strongly about whats happened and that Barclays shouldnt be 
chasing her for the debts. Shes provided a lot of information and testimony in support of 
this. I assure her that Ive read and considered everything shes provided  including 
listening to the call recordings shes provided. However, in this decision Ive not commented 
on everything shes provided, but my decision focuses on what I consider to be the key 
points. Our rules entitle me to do this and it simply reflects the informal nature of this service.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why:
As the investigator set out, this services role is to assess whether a business has done 
what it should, or, where it hasnt, to see if its taken reasonable steps to put things right. 
We wouldnt expect a business to honour an incorrect statement, but we would expect it 
to put the consumer in the position theyd be in if they hadnt been told something wrong.
Barclays internal records show it hasnt written off the debts in question, but have 
referred them to its recovery department. Im satisfied Ms G does still owe the money 
Barclays is asking her to repay.
Ms G feels strongly she was told the debts were written off. I dont dispute she feels they 
were and I have considered her detailed testimony regarding this. But, other than her 
testimony, I havent seen anything to support this. Ive listened to the telephone calls that 
shes provided, but this doesnt support that all her debts were written off. I understand 
she was given certain assurances regarding her mortgage debt. But I havent seen 
anything to show Barclays have written off the debts in question or told her it had done 
so.
Ms G has provided a text message showing one of the debts were paid off. I agree that 
this was misleading, but it was an automated message which was sent when the account 
was transferred over to Barclays recovery department. The alleged payment was for 
over £17,000 and Im satisfied Ms G would reasonably have known this payment wasnt 
made. So I think she should have been reasonably aware that this was sent in error and 
didnt mean the debt didnt exist any longer.
Even if I was to accept that Barclays did tell her the debt was written off, which I dont, 
this would have been incorrect information. I need to think about what the situation would 
be had she not been told this. Ms G owes this money and would owe it whether Barclays 
told her it was written off or not. So, even if she was provided with misleading 
information, Barclays isnt bound by this and can require Ms G to repay the money.
I recognise Ms G feels strongly about whats happened. But I havent seen enough to show 
that she was told she would never have to pay these debts back. If she was told anything, 
its possible she may have been told there would be a pause in chasing her for the money, 
although I havent seen anything to support this either. But, ultimately, Im not persuaded Ive 
seen enough for me to say Barclays had written the debts off or told her that they were.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman