DRN-4119536
The complaint
Miss W complains about the settlement shes been offered by Great Lakes Insurance SE for 
a claim she made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Miss W took out a single trip travel insurance policy through a broker. The policy was 
designed to provide cover for a skiing holiday. Miss W travelled abroad, but her baggage 
didnt arrive at her destination as planned. 
So Miss W called Great Lakes to check what cover she held. She specifically wanted to 
know whether shed be covered for ski equipment hire and clothing. The claims handler set 
out the applicable policy cover, including ski hire and ski equipment cover, along with 
baggage cover. However, they didnt tell Miss W that clothing wasnt included in ski 
equipment cover and neither did they explain that if Miss Ws baggage was found, shed only 
be entitled to baggage delay benefit.
Based on the call, Miss W understood that her clothing purchases would be covered in line 
with the policy limits. So she purchased clothing which would enable her to ski, along with 
hiring ski equipment. A few days into Miss Ws trip, her baggage was found and sent on to 
her. Miss W made a claim for the costs shed incurred.
Great Lakes made a partial offer of settlement. It agreed to pay Miss W baggage delay 
benefit and ski hire benefit in line with the policy terms. However, it didnt agree to settle the 
costs of Miss Ws ski clothes or other purchases.
Miss W was unhappy with Great Lakes offer and she asked us to look into her complaint. 
She said shed relied on the information shed been given by the claims handler and that she 
wouldnt have bought the clothing if shed known it wasnt covered.
Our investigator thought Miss Ws complaint should be upheld. She felt Great Lakes policy 
terms had been clear as to the cover provided by the contract. But she thought that Miss W 
had asked the claims handler specific questions about what cover she held. And she didnt 
think the claims handler had explained how baggage delay cover or ski equipment cover 
worked as clearly as they should have done, leaving Miss W in a position where she 
believed shed be covered for her clothing purchases up to a limit of £2000. So she 
recommended that in addition to the baggage delay and ski hire settlement, Great Lakes 
should pay Miss W £500 compensation. This represented the difference between baggage 
delay and ski equipment cover, along with an amount for Miss Ws trouble and upset.
Great Lakes disagreed and so the complaint was referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
Subsequently, Great Lakes offered to pay Miss W £350 compensation, together with the 
settlement it had already offered for Miss Ws baggage delay and ski hire benefits.
The investigator explained Great Lakes offer to Miss W and also let Miss W know that she 
thought Id be likely to conclude that this offer was fair and reasonable. However, Miss W 
disagreed. In brief, she felt the investigators award of £500 was a more suitable 
recommendation. So I now need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Miss W, I think Great Lakes offer of 
settlement is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they must provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim. So Ive 
considered, amongst other things, the terms of Miss Ws policy and the call she had with 
Great Lakes, to decide whether I think Great Lakes treated her fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the contract 
between Miss W and Great Lakes. Section 10 sets out Personal Belongings cover. This 
says that Great Lakes will cover personal baggage items that are lost, stolen or damaged 
during a trip, In Miss Ws case, the personal baggage limit was £2000.
Section 10 also includes baggage delay cover. This says that Great Lakes will pay up to the 
sum insured (in Miss Ws case, £50 benefit per day up to a limit of £200) to contribute 
towards the purchase or hire of essential items if a policyholders baggage is delayed for 
more than 24 hours. 
Miss W opted to add a winter sports upgrade to her policy, so Ive gone on to look at the 
relevant available cover under that section of the policy too. The policy provides cover of up 
to £500 for ski equipment which is lost, stolen, destroyed or damaged during a trip. Ski 
equipment is defined as: skis, including bindings, ski boots, ski poles and snowboards.
And the policy also provides cover for the hire of ski equipment if, amongst other things, a 
policyholders ski equipment is delayed in reaching them for more than 12 hours. The policy 
provides cover of £25 per day, up to a total limit of £250.
In my view, the policy is clear and unambiguous as to the cover Great Lakes provides if a 
policyholders baggage is delayed or permanently lost. Im also satisfied that Great Lakes 
has clearly defined what it means by ski equipment and that this definition doesnt include 
ski clothing. As Miss Ws baggage was ultimately delayed by more than 24 hours for a 
further three days, I think Great Lakes original settlement offer was technically correct  it 
offered Miss W settlement in line with the baggage delay and ski hire sections of the policy.
Im mindful that Miss W told the broker that shed looked at the policy terms before calling 
Great Lakes. So I think she ought reasonably to have been put on notice that if her bag was 
found, any settlement would be limited to baggage delay and ski hire benefits. However, Ive 
listened carefully to the call of 31 January 2023 between Miss W and Great Lakes. It seems 
clear to me that Miss W called Great Lakes because she wanted to check what she was 
covered for before buying specialist clothing to allow her to ski on her skiing holiday. So I 
think she took reasonable steps to ensure that her purchases were in line with the policy 
terms. The claims handler did go through the applicable policy limits with Miss W. But I don't 
think he was as clear as he could and should have been, as the 'insurance expert' in this 
situation. Miss W asked specifically about buying ski clothing - and the claims handler 
referred to a cover limit of £500 for lost or stolen ski equipment. He also referred Miss W to 
the policy limit of £25 per day for ski hire. So I think, based on that information, Miss W had a 
reasonable expectation that she was entitled to cover under for both ski equipment and ski 
hire. But, as Ive explained above, the definition of ski equipment doesn't include clothing. So Miss W wouldn't have been entitled to claim for replacement ski clothing under that particular 
heading. This means the purchases she explicitly stated she wanted to make wouldn't have 
been covered under her add-on ski cover regardless, even if her baggage had been 
permanently lost. On that basis, I think she was given unclear information about her cover.
The claims handler referred to baggage delay cover too. But Miss W asked specifically what 
the impact would be on her if her bag was found and returned to her. So I think the claims 
handler ought reasonably to have clarified with Miss W that if her bag was returned to her, 
she'd be entitled to baggage delay cover and ski hire cover only. Or, that if her bag was 
permanently lost, she'd been entitled to settlement under the personal baggage cover in line 
with the policy terms (less any settlement paid for baggage delay), together with a payment 
for ski hire. I think this would have made it very clear to Miss W that settlement she received 
for clothing purchases could be limited  potentially to delayed baggage and ski hire cover.
Miss W says had she been aware that she might not be covered for the clothing, she'd 
wouldn't have bought any and simply wouldn't have skied. It seems to me that given Miss 
Ws baggage appears to have been lost, its likely she would always have needed to buy 
some essential items. But on balance, given Miss W did take steps to call Great Lakes to 
check her cover before buying ski clothing, I find it most likely that she wouldnt have 
purchased specialist sportswear. So I think she likely spent money she wouldn't otherwise 
have done had the claims handler given her clear and accurate information about the cover 
she actually had and could be entitled to. Therefore, I find that Miss W did lose out as a 
result of Great Lakes service failing on this point.
It seems to me that as Great Lakes has now offered to pay Miss W £350 compensation, in 
addition to the original settlement it offered, it accepts that it didnt handle Miss Ws call as 
well as it could and should have done. I was pleased to note Great Lakes offer of 
settlement. I consider that this amount represents fair compensation for Miss Ws trouble 
and upset. In my view, its a reasonable and proportionate award which takes into account 
Miss Ws financial loss in terms of the difference between the ski equipment cover limit of 
£500 and the baggage delay limit of £200 and the time and inconvenience shes been put to. 
I dont think I could fairly or proportionately direct Great Lakes to pay a higher award of 
compensation in these circumstances. So I now direct Great Lakes to pay Miss W £350 
compensation.
In July 2022, Great Lakes offered to pay Miss W £150 under the baggage delay section 
(three 24 hour periods of delay), together with £37.50, representing the costs of the ski 
equipment Miss W hired. I understand that at that point, Miss W didnt want to accept this 
settlement, given her unhappiness with Great Lakes handling of her claim. Great Lakes 
must now also settle Miss Ws baggage delay and ski hire claims in line with the policy terms 
and the settlement offer it made in July 2022, irrespective of whether Miss W decides to 
accept my findings regarding compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Great Lakes has now made a fair 
and reasonable offer of compensation to reflect its service errors.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay Miss W £350 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Lisa BarhamOmbudsman