DRN-3071279
The complaint
Mr E complains that Hartley Pensions Limited has failed to treat him fairly in the 
administration of his self-invested personal pension (SIPP). In particular he complains that;
Hartley has failed to respond to his queries and problems in a timely manner
The fees that Hartley is charging for transfers to another party in order to purchase 
an annuity are not in line with its published charges. 
Hartley has made unauthorised withdrawals from his pension savings to both cover 
its annual charges and to provide a cash balance in Mr Es account
What happened
Mr E has held this SIPP since 2015. When he opened the SIPP it was provided, and 
administered, by a company I will call G. In 2018 G entered administration and Hartley took 
over as the operator and administrator of the SIPP. At that time Hartley wrote to affected 
clients informing them of the change and advising that the change would not have any 
impact on the investments, day to day administration, and fees of the SIPP.
In May 2019 Hartley wrote to Mr E advising him of some changes to the key features of the 
SIPP. In so far as is relevant to this complaint, the letter and revised key features document 
explained that invoices would no longer be automatically issued before annual fees were 
taken (but could be provided on request). It also explained that consumers needed to hold at 
least £2,000 in cash or readily realisable assets in their linked bank account. And it said that 
fees would be reviewed regularly with 30 days notice of any changes being provided.
Over the following months there was extensive correspondence between Mr E and Hartley 
about the administration of the SIPP, and the fees that would be payable should he wish to 
withdraw funds from the SIPP. I will deal with the answers Hartley gave to those questions 
as part of my findings in this decision.
Later in 2019 Hartley tried to take its annual administration fee but Mr E held insufficient 
funds in his SIPP bank account to pay the charge. So Hartley disinvested £418.89 to pay the 
administration fee, and a further £2,000 in order that Mr E met the requirement to maintain a 
balance of £2,000 in his cash account. Mr E says that he didnt agree that transaction, and 
that Hartley should have sought his permission before it was carried out.
Unhappy with how he had been treated by Hartley, Mr E made a formal complaint. In 
response Hartley thought that it had acted in line with its terms and conditions. It apologised 
that it hadnt always responded to Mr Es queries as quickly as it would have hoped. And, as 
a gesture of goodwill, it offered to allow Mr E to pay the fee of £175+VAT for an annuity 
purchase that he thought applied to his account. Mr E didnt accept Hartleys response so 
brought his complaint to this Service.  
One of our investigators has looked at Mr Es complaint. He noted that Hartley had 
apologised for the delays in responding to Mr Es queries and thought that apology to be 
sufficient. He thought that Hartley had acted in line with the SIPP terms and conditions when 
it liquidated some of Mr Es assets to pay its administration fee, and ensure he had the 
minimum balance in his cash account. And he thought that the offer Hartley had made, to 
waive some of the charges it thought were applicable to an annuity purchase, was fair. So 
he didnt think that the complaint should be upheld  or that Hartley needed to do anything 
further.
Mr E didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr E and by Hartley. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I think there are some over-arching matters that I need to consider first in this complaint. 
Mr E has provided us with extensive evidence of his dealings with Hartley (and the previous 
SIPP administrator) and commentary about all aspects of his complaint. I think, at the start of 
this decision, I have reasonably set out a summary of the key matters being complained 
about. I have read, and considered, everything that Mr E has sent to us. And although 
I might not comment in this decision on all that evidence it has formed part of my 
considerations.
When Hartley took on the administration of the SIPP, it did not take any liability for any errors 
or omissions by the previous administrator. So, in this decision, it would not be appropriate 
for me to look at what Mr E was told at the time the SIPP was originally opened. I accept that 
Hartley told Mr E that his terms and conditions remained unchanged as a result of the 
transfer. But here, where there is some dispute about the specific meaning of some of the 
terms and conditions, I cannot hold Hartley responsible for information he might previously 
have been given before it took over the administration. Instead I think a fair approach would 
be for me to consider whether Hartleys interpretation of the terms and conditions (and any 
revisions that have been made) is reasonable.
In saying that I think I should first touch on those terms and conditions and the changes that 
Hartley made in 2019. I dont think Mr E was ever given any assurance that the terms and 
conditions he originally agreed to would apply for the entire time that he held the SIPP. It 
would be unreasonable to expect that sort of assurance given the numerous changes that might apply in the markets. So I dont think it unreasonable for Hartley to have varied the 
terms and conditions in its letter to Mr E in 2019. 
I am satisfied that it is likely that letter was safely received by Mr E, and so I think its 
contents should apply to his relationship with Hartley. And I also note those terms provide for 
Hartley to vary any fees applicable to the SIPP by providing 30 days notice. So even if 
I were to find that Hartley was not applying the fee structure as it should, it would be entirely 
reasonable for the firm to alter the description of those fees so that the future implementation 
would match its current understanding. So any redress I might suggest in terms of the fee 
structure couldnt have any significant forward impact.
Hartley accepts that its communication with Mr E has been, at times, less prompt than it 
might have expected. I can understand why that would have been frustrating for Mr E. But it 
seems to me that, at that time, his enquires were of a more general nature. I havent seen 
anything to make me think that the delayed responses from Hartley meant that Mr E was 
prevented from implementing transactions that he intended  or that any delays meant that 
he has lost out, either in terms of investment returns or by being delayed in taking income 
from his pension savings.
Turning now to the fees that Hartley says would be payable for taking an annuity. Mr E says 
that he discussed the fees with the original SIPP administrator and was told that a single fee 
of £175+VAT would apply if he used some of his pension savings to purchase an annuity. 
He says that G, like Hartley, didnt offer annuities so the cost he was quoted would have 
been inclusive of any fees to transfer the funds to another provider. Hartley says that those 
fees would be additional to the quoted annuity cost.
I can understand, given what he says he had been told by G, why Mr E was disappointed 
when Hartley told him its interpretation of the fee structure. But I dont need to decide 
whether that interpretation is reasonable. As I said earlier, Hartley has agreed, as a gesture 
of goodwill, to only charge the fee that Mr E thought was applicable for an annuity purchase. 
And I think that it is reasonable to conclude that Mr E is now aware of the fee that Hartley 
would seek to charge for any future annuity purchases. Even if I were to conclude that 
wasnt a fair interpretation of the charges the terms and conditions suggest Mr E should pay, 
then I think Hartley has now given Mr E sufficient notice of a revision to the fee structure to 
reflect the fee it is saying applies.
The revisions to the terms and conditions that were sent to Mr E in May 2019 set out that he 
needed to hold a minimum of £2,000 either in cash, or readily realisable assets. I assume 
that Hartley made that stipulation so that it could easily collect any charges that were due. 
And the same letter told Mr E that invoices wouldnt be routinely issued before charges were 
collected in the future. So I think that it was reasonable both for Hartley to take its annual 
fees without issuing an invoice, and to ensure that Mr E met its requirements to hold a 
minimum of £2,000 in his SIPP bank account. So I dont think it did anything wrong in the 
transaction it effected in November 2019.
I appreciate how disappointing my decision will be for Mr E. It is clear that he feels that 
Hartley has not managed in SIPP in the same spirit as the previous provider. And that might 
well be the case  but it isnt for me to dictate how a business should operate, providing it is 
within the bounds of a reasonable commercial approach. I dont think that I should require 
Hartley to do anything more than it already has offered. I think that any possible 
misunderstanding about the annuity fee structure is mitigated by Hartleys offer to progress 
Mr Es transfer at the rate he understood was applicable. And I think that Hartley acted within 
its terms and conditions when it ensured Mr E held at least £2,000 in his SIPP bank account.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Hartley Pensions Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman