The complaint
Mr M has complained about a number of loans he took from Western Circle Limited trading 
as Cashfloat. Mr M says Cashfloat lent to him irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mr M was given a total of 8 loans by Cashfloat between May 2016 and February 2018. The 
loans were all repayable in instalments of between one and three months.  The 
principal sum borrowed varied from £200 to £500.   I understand loans 1 to 7 are closed but 
loan 8 remains outstanding.
A summary of Mr M's borrowing is as follows: 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 09/05/2016 27/05/2016 3 £300.00
2 13/06/2016 30/06/2016 1 £200.00
3 10/07/2016 30/09/2016 3 £500.00
4 18/10/2016 28/10/2016 2 £200.00
5 15/10/2017 30/10/2017 2 £400.00
6 04/11/2017 15/11/2017 3 £400.00
7 16/12/2017 21/12/2017 2 £250.00
8 21/02/2018 Outstanding 3 £400.00
When Mr M first complained to Cashfloat, the lender didnt agree to uphold his complaint. 
But it did offer to remove the additional interest that loan 8 has attracted due to the length of 
time that the debt has been outstanding. Mr M didnt accept this offer and brought his 
complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ms complaint. He didn't think Cashfloat had been 
wrong to provide Mr M with any of the loans.  Mr M didn't agree with the adjudicators 
assessment, and so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision about the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
DRN-1779340Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. This 
means that it had to carry out proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M could repay the 
loans sustainably. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such 
as the loan amount, the repayment amounts and Mr Ms income and expenditure. But there 
was no set list of checks Cashfloat had to do.
 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But I've also considered if there were any other factors that 
might indicate that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish 
whether continued lending was sustainable for Mr M.
 Such factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,  
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Mr M took 8 loans in approximately two years. There was a gap of around 12 months 
between the fourth and fifth loans. Ive thought about the length of this gap and when it 
occurred in the lending relationship. I think the length of the gap was such that Cashfloat 
might reasonably have considered that any problems that had led Mr M to take the previous 
loans had now been resolved. So I think this gap was long enough to represent a clean 
break in lending and I have looked at Mr Ms loans as 2 separate chains of lending: loans 1 
to 4 and loans 5 to 8. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what it means for Mr Ms complaint.
 
Loans 1 to 4
Cashfloat has told us it carried out some checks before lending to Mr M. It asked him for 
details of his income and normal monthly expenditure,  his expenditure on other short term 
loans and any other credit commitments. Cashfloat has explained that it analyses the 
information given by borrowers about their expenditure. It says that it compares this 
information to other data sources such as average expenditure information for similar 
households. And it verifies the credit information using data provided by credit reference agencies. From this Cashfloat says it estimates the disposable income that a borrower has 
available to repay any lending. 
From what Ive seen, I think the checks Cashfloat did before agreeing to the first four loans 
were reasonable and proportionate.  The amounts that Mr M borrowed appeared to be 
reasonable given the income hed declared to Cashfloat. And each of the repayments he 
needed to make was adequately covered by the disposable income Cashfloat had calculated 
from the information Mr M provided and its own checks.
 
Mr M has told us that if Cashfloat had carried out better checks when he applied for his 
loans, the lender would have discovered that he was in a debt management plan at the time. 
Mr M has provided a credit search and also statements from his debt management plan. 
However, generally, the information a consumer might see, when they request a copy of 
their credit file, might be very different to that seen by a lender. A lender might only see a 
small portion of the credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised, or the data 
might not be up to date. So, this may explain any differences between the information 
provided by the lenders credit check and the information Mr M says it should have seen.
Given the amount Cashfloat was lending to Mr M each time, what Mr M had told the lender 
about his circumstances and the number of loans agreed, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Cashfloat to ask Mr M for the amount of information that would be needed 
to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first four loans.
Mr M also thinks that taking four consecutive loans from Cashfloat should have indicated to 
the lender that he was in financial difficulties.
I have considered that Mr M borrowed regularly from Cashfloat, taking loans 1 to 4 in the 
space of six months. He generally repaid each loan ahead of schedule, leaving a short gap 
before borrowing again. I dont think Mr Ms borrowing and repayment behaviour indicated 
any significant signs that might suggest he was facing serious problems managing his 
money. And I dont think, in this chain of loans, that it had reached the point where I think the 
lender ought to have been independently verifying the information Mr M was providing about 
his finances by, for example, asking to see copies of his bank statements. 
I appreciate that Mr W says his financial situation was much worse, and that he was 
borrowing from several other short term lenders. But this doesnt appear to be something he 
shared with the lender at that time, or something that proportionate checks would have 
uncovered. So I dont think Cashfloat did anything wrong in providing loans 1 to 4 to Mr M.
 
Loans 5 to 8
As Ive explained above, I think the 12 months gap between loans 4 and 5 was such that 
Cashfloat might reasonably have considered that any problems that had led Mr M to take the 
earlier loans had been resolved. So it was reasonable for the lender to treat Mr M as it would 
a new customer, with a new cycle of lending.  
I think the checks Cashfloat did before agreeing to loans 5 to 8 were also reasonable and 
proportionate.  I have again considered Mr Ms borrowing and repayment behaviour. Had its 
relationship with Mr M progressed, Cashfloat might have become increasingly concerned 
that he was becoming dependent on its lending. But as with the first chain of loans, I dont 
think the lending relationship had reached the point where I think Cashfloat should have been carrying out more in depth checks when it agreed to the lending. And there doesnt 
appear to have been any reason for Cashfloat to doubt the accuracy of what Mr M said 
about his financial situation when he applied for these loans. 
I appreciate that it might have been difficult for Mr M to repay the loans from Cashfloat. But 
as Ive explained above, I have not seen anything to suggest he told Cashfloat about his 
debt management plan or his financial difficulties at the time. And I dont think it was 
something that proportionate checks would have uncovered. So I dont think Cashfloat did 
anything wrong in giving loans 5 to 8 to Mr M.
I understand loan 8 is still outstanding. Cashfloat has already offered to remove the 
additional interest that loan 8 has attracted due to the length of time that the debt has been 
outstanding. The lender should also try to agree a reasonable repayment plan with Mr M, 
bearing in mind the need to treat him positively and sympathetically.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July  2020.
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman