DRN-3109804
The complaint
Ms D has complained that 1st Stop Personal Loans Limited (This was a trading name used 
at the time by a business called Oplo PL Ltd) provided her with an unaffordable loan.
What happened
1st Stop provided Ms D with a personal loan of £10,000.00 in July 2019. This loan had a 36-
month term with a monthly repayment amount of £400.78. This all meant the total amount 
repayable of £14,428 was due to be repaid.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and didnt uphold Ms Ds complaint. She 
concluded that 1st Stop carried out proportionate checks and made a fair lending decision 
based on what it had in front of it. 
Ms D disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Ms Ds complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are overarching questions that I 
need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Ms Ds complaint. These questions 
are:
Did 1st Stop complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms D 
would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Ms D wouldve been able to do so?
1st Stop provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required 1st Stop to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of Ms Ds ability to make the
repayments under this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so 1st Stop had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Ms D. In practice this meant that 
1st Stop had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Ms D undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for 1st Stop to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms D. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is likely to be 
greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
what checks did 1st Stop do?
1st Stop gathered some information from Ms D before it agreed the loan. It asked her for 
details of her income. Ms D said this was £4200 and 1st Stop verified this by looking at an 
online income verification tool. 
1st Stop then used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to assess Ms Ds monthly 
general living expenses and it worked this out to be £590. It then ran a credit search and 
could see that Ms D had credit commitments of around £1491 a month.
1st Stop worked out that this left Ms D with disposable income which meant that the monthly 
contractual instalments of around £401 that she had signed up to make on this loan should 
have been comfortably affordable for her. It also made notes on her credit search results and 
says it didnt see anything that it felt demonstrated that Ms D was having any financial 
problems.
did 1st Stop do proportionate checks?
Ive carefully considered whether the information that 1st Stop gathered at the time should 
reasonably have triggered further checks. On balance, I dont think that the information 1st 
Stop had collected about Ms Ds financial situation was enough to prompt a reasonable 
lender to think it needed to do further or more in-depth checking. The credit report that 1st Stop acquired showed very little credit impairment at that time. 
There were some accounts that had been in arrears, but Ms D had settled these. On 
balance, I think based on the checks it carried out that there wasnt anything that would have 
alerted it to wanting to find out more. So, I think the checks it carried out were proportionate.
did 1st Stop make a fair lending decision?
Taking things as a whole, I think it would have been reasonable for 1st Stop to consider that 
the monthly repayments on its loan were affordable for Ms D  allowing for the amount it had 
assessed to be her disposal income. 
Ive needed to see whether 1st Stop made a fair lending decision based on what it had in 
front of it, and from what I have seen, I think it did.
Overall, I think the checks that 1st Stop carried out before lending to Ms D were reasonable 
and proportionate. I think it was reasonable in the circumstances for 1st Stop to have relied 
on the information that Ms D provided and what it found in its checks - and this was enough 
to enable 1st Stop to gain a reasonable understanding of his financial situation and see that 
Ms D appeared to be managing her money without any significant payment problems. I dont 
think more in-depth checks  such as requesting bank statements were required.
So, I havent seen enough to be able to uphold Ms Ds irresponsible lending complaint.
In conclusion, I do not uphold Ms Ds complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against
Oplo PL Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman