DRN-3612883
The complaint
Mrs F complains through her representative that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118
Money lent her money on high cost loans that she was unable to afford to repay.
What happened
118 118 Money provided Mrs F with the following loans:
Date Amount Term Instalments* When repaid
Loan 1 9/6/2019 £2,000 24 Months £123 2/3/2020
Loan 2 29/9/2020 £2,000 24 Months £132 Outstanding
* rounded up
Mrs F says she took out the borrowing to consolidate some debts but couldnt afford the 
repayments. She ended up getting into difficulties with her utility payments which went 
onto a debt management plan, and she had to borrow money from her family to make 
ends meet. Her representative has provided bank statements around the period of the 
application for both loans
118 118 Money said it considered Mrs Fs application in detail and carried out the usual 
verification checks, of her income and credit record. It assessed that both loans were 
affordable.
Our adjudicator said that for loan 1 Mrs F had several credit cards that were near their limit
and had very recently taken out a large loan, indicating that she would struggle with the
repayments. For loan 2 Mrs F had increased her credit debts and had taken out a large high
purchase loan, so the checks would have shown that she wouldnt be able to afford the
repayments.
118 118 Money said it disagreed with the view concerning loan 1. It said it was struggling to
understand the adjudicators logic around the disposable income (which had been assessed
at £2,186) and it also confirmed that the customer was spending less than 25% of her 
income on unsecured debt repayments. There was nothing on the credit file that would have
triggered it to complete more checks.
I issued a provisional decision, confirming that I assumed that 118 118 Money agreed with 
the adjudicators view concerning loan 2. In respect of loan 1, I proposed not to uphold the 
complaint concerning it. I said from the evidence supplied that it was reasonable to assess 
that loan as being affordable.
118 118 Money accepted my provisional findings. Neither Mrs F nor her representative have 
made any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings:
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mrs F would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs F would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required 118 118 Money to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mrs Fs ability to make the repayments under the 
agreements. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so 118 118 Money had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that 118 118 Money had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mrs F undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, 
without failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to 
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial 
situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for 118 118 Money to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs F. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan 
application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more
thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which 
a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).loan 1
As regards 118 118 Moneys checks, I take issue here with the assessment of Mrs Fs 
outgoings. These were assessed at being just £100 rent, and no other expenses. If it was 
assumed that Mrs F had a partner to pay the bills, none of that was recorded, nor was any 
attempt made to establish whether the bills were in Mrs Fs name. She refers in her 
complaint to having to pay various utility bills, but I dont know what information 118 118 
Money had about that at the time. With Mrs Fs monthly income being assessed at £2,286, 
I dont think the figure of £2,186 for Mrs Fs disposable income at the time was realistic.
Without any other information concerning her outgoings I think it fair to apply ONS (Office for 
National Statistics) data which says that the average outgoings of a householder are about 
35% of their income. In Mrs Fs case that produces a figure of £800. However, adding that to 
her credit commitments and the new loan instalment this still would have left a monthly 
disposable income figure of over £1,000, which does indicate that the loan was affordable.
The other figure to consider is the proportion of Mrs Fs income she would have spent on 
credit commitments after the loan was issued. This would have been about 20% of her 
monthly income, again a figure which indicated that the new loan was affordable.
I have considered the point that Mrs F had a lot of credit card debt. She did have five credit 
cards, but the total credit card debt was around £1,635, which wasnt in my view 
particularly high.
I dont think that the checks 118 118 Money did would have alerted it to carry out any further 
investigation of Mrs Fs finances. But if it had decided to do this and considered her bank 
statements, I dont think the statements Mrs F has produced from around the time of the loan 
revealed any particular concerns. She didnt appear to be overdrawn nor were her outgoings 
unusually high.
So, I think that this loan was fairly assessed as being affordable and that 118 118 Money 
made a fair lending decision.
loan 2
118 118 Money has accepted the adjudicators view in respect of this loan. I wont make any 
detailed comment except to say that I agree with the adjudicators approach in respect of this 
loan. Mrs Fs credit commitments had increased considerably without any increase in 
income.
As neither party has made any further comments, my provisional findings are now final and 
form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
Mrs F has had the capital sum for loan 2 and its fair that she repays this. So I will require
118 118 Money to do the following:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan.
Treat any payments made by Mrs F as payments towards the capital amount.
If Mrs F has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 8% 
simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.But if theres still an outstanding balance, 118 118 Money should come to 
a reasonable repayment plan with Mrs F.
Remove any adverse information about loan 2 from Mrs Fs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to deduct tax from this interest. It should
give Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint concerning loan 1.
I uphold the complaint concerning loan 2 and require Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 
118 Money to provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman