DRN-3804316
The complaint
Mrs D complains about Santander UK Plcs actions following a fraudulent transaction. 
What happened
In March 2022 Mrs D contacted Santander to query a pending payment to a retailer Ill call 
E. Mrs D explained she didnt recognise the transaction and believed it to be fraudulent. 
The agent Mrs D spoke with dissuaded her from registering a fraud claim and claimed it 
could lead to her phone being blacklisted and account closed. A new card was ordered for 
Mrs D and she was referred to E. 
Mrs D complained and spoke with another member of staff on the following day. Santanders 
agent apologised and upheld Mrs Ds complaint, paying her £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Mrs Ds account was also switched to a new provider on 21 March 2022. The compensation 
payment was forwarded to Mrs Ds new account. The agent also agreed to monitor Mrs Ds 
account and take action to forward the refunds funds to her new bank. 
On the same day, the payment to E debited Mrs Ds account. Santander says there was 
insufficient time to transfer the disputed payment into Mrs Ds bank account before the 
switch process completed and it was closed. 
Around three weeks later, Mrs D spoke with Santander again. Santanders agent explained a 
cheque for the disputed funds shouldve been issued but wasnt. A transfer was arranged 
and Santander also transferred a further £40 to apologise for the service provided and 
delays forwarding Mrs Ds funds. 
Mrs D referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an adjudicator. They 
thought Santander had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to increase the level of 
compensation paid. Mrs D asked to appeal and explained the delays in receiving a refund 
meant she had to borrow money. Mrs D also said the compensation paid didnt recognise 
the time taken dealing with the issues raised. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background above as all parties broadly agree 
about the overall timeline. I agree with Mrs D that there were service issues and 
unnecessary delays. And I can understand why Mrs D was upset that the complaint wasnt 
initially resolve as promised. 
Ive listened to the available calls between Mrs D and Santander. I agree the service 
provided during the initial call was poor. When Mrs D complained and spoke with another 
agent on the following day they confirmed the correct information wasnt provided. The agent 
apologised and I agree it was appropriate for Santander to pay Mrs D compensation for the 
way her call was handled.
Its a shame the agent didnt go on to resolve the disputed payment issues as offered. That 
caused Mrs D to make a further set of calls in April 2022, before Santander arranged to 
transfer the missing funds. I agree that caused Mr D some unnecessary inconvenience, after 
already raising the issue on two occasions. 
Ultimately, the disputed funds were returned to Mrs D following her call in April 2022. Mrs D 
has explained that in addition to the inconvenience caused by having to call Santander 
again, she also had to borrow money due to the delay. I can see this point was disputed by 
Santander, but I see no reason to doubt what Mrs D has told us. Ive taken this into account.
I need to decide how to fairly resolve Mrs Ds complaint. As Ive noted above, I agree there 
were several instances where Santanders service caused delays and unnecessary 
inconvenience to Mrs D. Santander refunded the disputed transaction, so theres no financial 
loss to Mrs D. And Santander paid Mrs D a total of £190 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Ive taken an overall approach to the level of compensation paid. I understand the majority 
was received after the first complaint point was raised. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs D but, in 
my view, £190 fairly reflects the time spent dealing with this matter as well as the level of 
inconvenience caused. To put it another way, the settlement is very much in line with what I 
wouldve told Santander to pay had no offer been made. So whilst I agree the service 
provided was poor at time, Im satisfied Santander has already paid a settlement that is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. As Im satisfied Santander dealt with Mrs Ds 
complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that Santander UK Plc has already paid a settlement that is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman