DRN-2967081
The complaint
Mr M is complaining about Santander UK Plc reporting a missed payment on his credit card 
to the credit reference agencies. He says hed set up a direct debit in time for the payment to 
be taken, and it wasnt clear that the payment wouldnt be taken even though hed set up a 
direct debit.
What happened
In December 2020 Mr M applied for a credit card account with Santander and completed a 
balance transfer. He didnt have his bank details to hand at the time, so he didnt set up a 
direct debit to make the monthly payments.
On 18 January 2021 Santander sent Mr M a statement, showing that his minimum payment 
was due by 13 February 2021.
Mr M went online to set up a regular direct debit for his monthly payments. On 28 January 
Santander sent Mr M a letter to say the direct debit had been set up. But Mr Ms payment 
due by 13 February wasnt taken by direct debit, so he missed his payment for that month.
Mr M complained to Santander. He said, in summary, that hed set up the direct debit in 
plenty of time for the minimum payment to be taken by the date it was due. And he didnt 
think it was clear that the payment wouldnt be taken by direct debit for that month.
Santander replied to Mr Ms complaint. They explained that the process for any newly set up 
direct debit was for it to take effect after the next statement had been issued, so they didnt 
think theyd made an error in not taking Februarys payment by direct debit. They explained 
they wouldnt be able to remove any information about the missed payment from Mr Ms 
credit file. However, they refunded the late payment fee of £12. They also said that although 
the wording explaining the process for direct debits was present, they didnt think it was 
particularly clear. They sent Mr M £30 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr M brought his complaint to us. He was unhappy about the impact the missed payment 
had on his credit file. Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint, but he didnt uphold it. 
He said, in summary, that Santander had made it clear that the direct debit wouldnt take 
effect until the next statement was issued, and they hadnt made an error in reporting the 
missed payment to the credit reference agencies.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He said Santanders process was unfair, and the 
wording about paying by direct debit wasnt clear.
Mr Ms complaint has now been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the information Santander gave Mr M about making payments to his credit 
card when he opened the account. I can see that under the payment information section of 
the terms and conditions of Mr Ms credit card it says, in summary, that payments can be 
made by direct debit, which can be set up over the phone or online. It doesnt say here that 
direct debits wont take effect until the next statement period after theyre set up. 
Ive also looked at the how to make a payment section of Mr Ms credit card statement, and 
while it also explains that payments can be made by direct debit, it doesnt specifically 
mention that the direct debit wont take effect until the next statement period after its set up.
So I can understand why, before he went online to set up the direct debit, Mr M may have 
thought it would take effect in time to take the minimum payment due by 13 February.
However, Ive also looked at the screenshots Santanders provided of the online process for 
setting up a direct debit. On the confirmation screen summarising the direct debit details, 
there is a box displayed prominently at the top of the screen which says:
Please note your direct debit will not take effect until the date is confirmed on your credit 
card statement. 
On 28 January Santander sent Mr M a letter confirming the direct debit had been set up. 
Under the section what happens next it explains:
Youll get advance notice before a direct debit is taken from your current account on your 
credit card statement. This will tell you the amount and date your account will be debited.
Please make sure you pay by another payment method until confirmation that your direct 
debit has been set up appears on your statement.
Neither Santander nor Mr M have been able to confirm the exact date Mr M set up the direct 
debit online. Mr M said it was a few days before he received Santanders letter of 
confirmation, which was sent on 28 January. And Santander said they can see Mr M was 
online on 27 January  although they cant confirm what he was doing - and they usually 
send direct debit confirmation letters the day after the direct debits been set up. So I think 
its most likely the direct debit was set up on or around 27 January. And I think this date is 
important because it was after Santander issued Mr Ms statement on 18 January. 
I think the wording Ive set out above is clear enough to explain to Mr M that the direct debit 
wouldnt come into effect until hed had confirmation of this on his next statement. Because 
Mr Ms statement for January had already been issued at the time he set up the direct debit, 
confirmation would have been on the statement issued in February  which meant the direct 
debit wouldnt come into effect in time to take the minimum payment from Januarys 
statement which was due by 13 February.
So, I think Santander did enough to make Mr M aware before the payment in February was 
due that his payment wouldnt be taken by direct debit. I think it should have been clear to Mr 
M hed need to make his payment due in February by another method. 
Mr M didnt make the payment in time, and Santander reported this to the credit reference 
agencies. I dont think Santanders made an error here, or that theyve been unfair in 
reporting the missed payment to the credit reference agencies, because its factual information about Mr Ms payment history.
I appreciate that Mr M thinks Santander had plenty of notice to set up the direct debit to take 
his minimum payment within the same statement period. However, as Santander have 
explained, although the direct debit was set up by 28 January, it didnt take effect until after 
the next statement was issued. This is in line with how Santander operate their payment 
systems, and its for them to decide how they do that. And as Ive explained, theyve been 
clear in explaining this to Mr M when he set up his direct debit. So I dont think Santander 
have treated Mr M unfairly, and Im not going to ask them to do anything else.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint, for the reasons Ive explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2021.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman