DRN-3818238
The complaint
Miss C complains that Adrian Flux Insurance Services Group (Adrian Flux) is responsible 
for poor service in connection with her motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Adrian Flux, I include its claims helpline call-handlers and others insofar as I 
hold Adrian Flux responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
Miss C had a sports utility vehicle, first registered in 2010. Miss C acquired it in or before 
October 2019. In early February 2022, the vehicle passed an MOT test, with a recorded 
mileage of about 130,000.
Adrian Flux acted as an intermediary or broker between Miss C and an insurer. She had a 
comprehensive policy to cover the car for the year from early March 2022.
There was a bank holiday weekend in late April and early May 2022. On the Saturday 
evening, Miss C reported that an unknown driver had caused damage to the car in an 
incident on a roundabout. 
After contacting Adrian Flux and the insurer and having conversations that she found 
unsatisfactory, Miss C arranged some repairs to make the car roadworthy.
Miss C complained to Adrian Flux that it had been unable to verify the policy details to the 
insurer. 
Miss C brought her complaint to us without delay.
In July 2022, Adrian Fluxs claim handlers admitted there were errors.
In early November 2022, Adrian Flux told us it was offering to pay Miss C £75.00.
Our investigator didnt think that Adrian Flux was responsible for dealing with the claim. So 
she couldnt direct them to carry out the full repairs to the vehicle. She was satisfied that 
£75.00 was fair and reasonable compensation for their error.
Miss C disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
As Adrian Flux refused to confirm her policy, the insurer said it couldnt take her 
complaint or claim any further.
Adrian Fluxs incorrect advice caused her to seek repairs herself. She didnt get an 
invoice.
£75.00 isnt enough to cover her cost of the repairs.
Adrian Flux didnt confirm the policy until 9 May.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what the insurer has said, it had given Adrian Flux authority to issue policies in the 
insurers name, without giving the insurer details unless and until a policyholder made a 
claim.
From the insurers file, I see that any claim would be subject to an excess of £200.00.
Also, Miss C had about 12 years no-claims discount (NCD). As her NCD was 
unprotected, any claim would result in the discount being stepped back (and her premium 
increased for following years).
I accept Miss Cs recollection that on 30 April 2022, the insurer said the vehicle would be a 
write-off so it wouldnt provide a courtesy car.
On Tuesday 3 May 2022 Miss C contacted the insurer again. From its file note dated that 
day, I find that Adrian Flux couldnt confirm that Miss C had a policy. Also, Miss C asked 
about her NCD. So the insurer had to refer her back to Adrian Flux. Between Miss C and the 
insurer, matters were left on the basis that she might not wish to claim but would get in touch 
if she did. 
Miss C says that it had become impossible for her to make a claim. However, I dont find that 
the insurer was waiting for Adrian Flux to confirm cover. Rather, I find that Miss C was 
concerned about the consequences of making a claim, including the excess, the writing-off 
of her car and the stepping-back of her NCD. 
On 9 May 2022, Adrian Flux emailed Miss C confirming cover. She replied the same 
afternoon including the following: 
[The insurer] also called you themselves on 3rd May to verify my policy, as they were 
going to arrange the repairs because you had not called me back (as arranged from 
my call to you on 30th April ) and you informed THEM TOO that I do not have a 
policy with you. I have now had to resort to paying for the repairs myself as it has 
taken you over a week to even respond to me and my car was off the road.
So Miss C was saying that the insurer had been going to arrange repairs. I dont think she  
was correct. I consider that she knew that the insurer would write her car off rather than 
repair it. So, without contacting the insurer again, she had already arranged some repairs by 
9 May 2022. 
Miss C contacted the insurer again on about 10 May 2022. She told us the following:
It was at this point I told them I would not continue with a claim that I had already 
part paid for and that I would raise a complaint.
The insurers note of that call also says that Miss C wasnt pursuing a claim.
The investigator told Miss C that she could still make a claim  but she has been reluctant to 
do so. Therefore I conclude that it was Miss Cs decision not to pursue a claim. So I dont 
find Adrian Flux responsible for paying for repairs of the vehicle as Miss C asks.Putting things right
Nevertheless, Adrian Flux caused Miss C irritation by not confirming that she had a policy. I 
agree with the investigator that Adrian Fluxs offer of £75.00 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for this level of distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Adrian Flux Insurance Services Group to pay Miss C (insofar as it hasnt already paid 
her ) £75.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 January 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman