DRN-3825787
The complaint
The estate of the late Mr T has complained about the way in which Barclays Bank UK PLC 
resolved the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Mr H has been 
representing the estate.
What happened
Mr T was in an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). His insolvency practitioner (IP) 
lodged a complaint on his behalf about the sale of PPI.
In the meantime, Mr T unfortunately passed away.
Barclays agreed the PPI had been mis-sold. The IP confirmed they had an interest in the 
PPI compensation, so Barclays paid it to the IP.
The estate of Mr T complained. Its representatives said the IVA had since been finished, so 
they felt the IP were not entitled to the money. They also complained about the way Barclays 
had handled the complaint.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that the IP were eligible complainants and were entitled to the refund even after 
the IVA had closed, as it related to money owed before the IVA.
Mr Ts estate disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaints been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate where the estates representatives are coming from. When Mr Ts IVA 
finished, his debts were written off. I can understand why one might think that meant he 
didnt owe anything anymore.
But even after insolvencies like IVAs or bankruptcy, the debts dont cease to exist  theyre 
still there. It just means that the lenders cant take certain action against Mr T (or his estate) 
to recover those debts anymore, such as court action.
The insolvency effectively draws a line under what happened. So Mr Ts assets from before 
the IVA get used to pay off as much of his debt as possible, in order that his assets from 
after the IVA dont have to get used.
This PPI compensation relates to a policy from before the IVA started. At the point the IVA 
began, Barclays owed Mr T money for mis-selling this PPI  even if neither side had realised 
it yet until the mis-sale complaint was concluded. And so because the PPI compensation 
originates from before the IVA, it forms an asset which can be used to help pay the debts in 
the IVA. And this can still be done after the IVA has finished  the debts still exist, and the IP 
were still able to declare an interest in the refund and ask for it to be paid to them to help 
clear those debts.
Here, the IP confirmed to Barclays that they had an interest in this compensation. So 
Barclays acted correctly by paying it to the IP.
Mr H raised a concern that this meant Mr Ts estate would effectively never be released from 
the IVA. But I hope I can reassure him that, per the above, the IP could only claim assets 
that originate from before the IVA, to pay debts which originate from before the IVA  not 
after. So it does draw a line under what happened.
Mr H felt that Barclays had acted as judge and jury in deciding where to pay the refund. But 
the fact is that Barclays were supposed to pay the IP once the IP confirmed they had an 
interest. At that point, it wasnt really Barclays decision to make, it was really the IPs.
Mr H also felt that Barclays had done this in order to benefit from their own mis-selling. But 
as above, Barclays only did what they were supposed to do  and what wed expect them to 
do  by paying the IP. The IP would usually then spread the funds across all the creditors in 
the IVA, not just Barclays. And in any case, if Mr T owed money to Barclays at the same 
time as Barclays owed money to him  whether for a mis-sale or otherwise  then Id 
normally consider it both fair and pragmatic to use one debt to reduce the other. Again: 
these debts did not cease to exist, and setting off debts is a very normal practice.
I understand that the estates representatives may be unhappy with the way things work 
more generally. For example, they felt that banks should have provisions for bad debts. 
I should explain that were not the regulator  thats the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA for 
short)  and I cannot change the way things work across the board, so Im not best placed to 
comment on points about how the system as a whole should or shouldnt be. I can only 
consider what happened in this individual complaint, based on the law and regulations in 
place at the time. And Ive found that Barclays paid the right party.
I also understand that the estates representatives may be unhappy with things that the IP 
did, such as in accepting a sum to finish the IVA while the PPI complaint was outstanding, 
and in declaring an interest in the PPI refund. But in this complaint about Barclays, I can only 
make findings on what Barclays did. And more generally, we dont have jurisdiction over 
insolvency practitioners  thats the remit of the Insolvency Service. The estate may be able 
to make a separate complaint about the IP directly.
Lastly, I appreciate that the estates representatives are unhappy with the way Barclays 
handled the complaint. Im afraid Im only able to consider complaints about regulated 
activities  such as selling insurance. But handling complaints is not an activity we cover in 
and of itself. So I cant consider those points here. Further, in a complaint brought by Mr Ts 
estate, I wouldve only been able to award compensation for losses to Mr T and his estate  
but not to the representatives. So I would not have been able to award any compensation for 
any trouble or upset the representatives faced in dealing with the complaint in any case.With that said, it may be helpful to explain that the time it took Barclays to deal with this 
complaint was substantially affected by the huge number of cases that needed dealing with 
following the PPI deadline, coupled with a heavily-disruptive global pandemic.
So while I know this will disappoint the estates representatives, and while it is not my 
intention to disappoint them, I find that Barclays acted correctly in paying the IP.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr T 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman