DRN-2775277
The complaint
Mr M complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Trusttwo (ELL) failed to treat him 
fairly when the borrower of a loan he had guaranteed was facing problems making her 
repayments. 
What happened
In July 2017 Mr M agreed to act as guarantor for a loan being taken by a friend. The loan 
was for £5,000 and was due to be repaid in monthly instalments over a period of five years. 
Mr M signed a Guarantee and Indemnity agreement that required him to meet the borrowers 
obligations under her loan agreement if she failed to do so. The borrower appears to have 
successfully made her repayments for around a year before facing difficulties. Ultimately 
Mr M agreed a settlement amount for the loan which he paid to ELL and the loan was closed 
in February 2019.
In this complaint I will not be looking at any of the interactions between ELL and the 
borrower. I will only be looking at ELLs relationship with Mr M. So I will not be commenting 
on whether ELL treated the borrower fairly, either in agreeing the loan or in dealing with her 
debt problems around a year later.
When the borrower started to face problems repaying the loan, ELL got in touch with Mr M. 
Initially it advised him that it was not requesting any payments to be made. But later it told 
him that the debt was due to be passed to a third party and further legal action, such as 
seeking a County Court Judgement (CCJ) or an attachment against his earnings, might be 
taken.  
During the period of the arrears, Mr M maintained contact with ELL. He asked on a number 
of occasions whether he could make a payment to be released from the Guarantee and 
Indemnity agreement. And later he negotiated a reduced settlement figure to allow the loan 
to be fully repaid. It is those discussions that form the substance of the complaint that I am 
considering here  in order words, did ELL treat Mr M fairly and appropriately when it was 
seeking repayment of the lending from him as guarantor.
Mr Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She didnt think that ELL 
had done anything wrong by refusing Mr Ms early requests to be released from the 
Guarantee and Indemnity agreement. She noted that ultimately ELL had provided Mr M with 
a large reduction in the liability he might have had for the loan repayment. But she didnt 
think that ELL had handled its communications with Mr M as well as it should have done. 
She thought this would have caused Mr M some trouble and upset so she asked ELL to pay 
Mr M £150 in compensation.
ELL accepted our investigators findings and offered to pay the suggested compensation to 
Mr M. But Mr M didnt agree with the proposed outcome. So, as the complaint hasnt been 
resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last 
stage of our process.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr M and by ELL. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, 
I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked 
at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what 
I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred. 
I think it would be helpful to set out here the evidence that I have considered when reaching 
my decision. Mr M has provided us with comprehensive records of the written 
communication he received from ELL  I think as a result of a Data Subject Access Request 
(DSAR) that he made. And ELL has additionally provided us recordings of some of the 
phone conversations it had with Mr M. ELL accepts that these recordings are incomplete. It 
has explained that due to systems issues a number of calls were either not recorded or are 
now unavailable. I have no reason to doubt what ELL says, and do not draw any adverse 
conclusions about the missing phone calls.
I can see that Mr M has raised some concerns about the information that he thinks was 
missing from the DSAR. That isnt something I should look into here. The provision of that 
information is regulated by the Information Commissioners Office. It is that office that would 
be the correct place to review any concerns that Mr M might have in relation to his DSAR.
As I explained earlier the Guarantee and Indemnity agreement required Mr M to meet the 
borrowers obligations under her loan agreement if she failed to do so. So I dont think it was 
unreasonable for ELL to keep Mr M informed about the borrowers repayment problems 
since they would most likely impact his finances later on if they persisted for any length of 
time. But I can see that Mr M asked ELL to reduce the amount of contact it was making with 
him  that too was a reasonable request, and something that ELL should have taken on 
board.
The Guarantee and Indemnity agreement would remain in place for the entire time that the 
borrower owed ELL money. ELL took account of the guarantee when assessing whether it 
wished to lend money to the borrower. So I dont think it was unreasonable for ELL to expect 
Mr M to fulfil his obligations under the agreement. Therefore, when Mr M first asked ELL 
whether he could make a payment to be removed from his obligations it was reasonable for 
ELL to exercise its commercial judgement and refuse this request.
But I can see that, some months later, ELL did make an offer to Mr M to remove him from his 
guarantor responsibilities if he paid £3,000. I think that too was a reasonable exercise of 
ELLs commercial judgement. By then the loan had been in arrears for a longer period of 
time. And Mr M had made ELL aware that his financial circumstances might worsen in the 
future. So ELL might have considered it attractive to try and recover at least some of the 
outstanding loan balance.Ultimately Mr M declined the offer that ELL made. But he accepted a different offer and paid 
a much reduced settlement figure for the loan. That extinguished not only his liabilities, but 
also those of the borrower. That was a choice for Mr M to make. I cannot see that ELL 
placed any unfair pressure on Mr M to make that payment at that time. Instead it would have 
been perfectly reasonable for ELL to ask Mr M to continue making the required monthly 
repayments over the entire term of the loan, if the borrower had been unable, or unwilling, to 
meet her obligations.
I have considered that Mr M says that ELL treated the borrower unfairly when it refused to 
accept an offer she made for significantly reduced repayments on the loan. But ELL needed 
to balance that offer against the guarantee that Mr M had provided. It wasnt unreasonable 
for ELL to turn to Mr M for the money, rather than accept the reduced repayments offered by 
the borrower.
So, on balance, I dont think ELL has treated Mr M unfairly in its discussions with him about 
the repayments he would need to make on the loan.
But, getting to the point where Mr M paid the settlement amount was not an easy process. 
As Ive mentioned above, ELL made repetitive contact with Mr M when the borrower first 
started facing problems with her repayments. And it is clear from the calls I have listened to 
that Mr Ms ongoing discussions with ELL about the repayment of the loan were not 
straightforward. Mr M was promised, and failed to receive, returned calls on a number of 
occasions. And as a result he needed to spend increasing amounts of time repeating basic 
information about the history of the situation and ELLs proposals to put things right.
I am pleased to see that ELL has accepted our investigators findings that its communication 
with Mr M fell short of what he might reasonably expect. And I agree with our investigator 
that those failings obviously caused some trouble and upset to Mr M. I think the suggested 
compensation of £150, that ELL has agreed to pay, is fair in the circumstances here. So that 
is the award I am making to Mr M.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr M. But I dont think ELL acted 
unreasonably when it turned to him, the guarantor of the loan, to make the repayments when 
the borrower failed to do so. It was entirely within ELLs commercial judgement whether or 
not to accept any offer from Mr M to either remove his liability as guarantor or to repay the 
loan entirely. And only accepting that offer after a period of months was not unreasonable. 
Putting things right
ELL has accepted that its communications with Mr M fell short of what he might reasonably 
expect. This has caused Mr M some trouble and upset. ELL should pay to Mr M, within 
28 days of his acceptance of this decision, the sum of £150.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Ms complaint and direct Everyday Lending 
Limited to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman