DRN-3786523
The complaint
Mr Ps complaint is about the way FXBFI Broker Financial Invest Ltd (FXBFI) sold contracts 
for difference (CFDs) to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them at length 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
In summary, Mr P saw an advert about buying some shares in an online retailer. He 
expressed his interest and received a telephone call from FXBFI within minutes. Over the 
course of the next month he received numerous phone calls from FXBFI and transferred 
over £125,000 to them. 
Our investigator said FXBFI should refund all of the money Mr P deposited with them, with 
interest. And she said they should pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused. FXBFI didnt 
agree  they said Mr P should have been aware of the risks, which were set out in the terms 
and conditions. And they said hed passed their questionnaire and their assessment to 
become a professional client.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
 FXBFI have said Mr P should have been aware of the risks of trading CFDs because 
they were written in the terms and conditions. Whilst I can see there were warnings in 
the paperwork that Mr P signed, his testimony is that he signed these whilst on the 
phone and under pressure. Ive not heard what was said on the phone so I cant be 
sure what induced him to sign them but its clear that FXBFI suggested Mr Ps money 
would do better invested with them than in his bank account.  
 Chapter 10 of the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) requires a firm to assess 
whether a client has the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks 
involved in a product. Although I can see Mr P completed and passed FXBFIs 
assessment, Mr Ps testimony is that he completed everything over the phone  and 
Im not persuaded that the answers are a true reflection of Mr Ps experience. For 
example, one of the questions asks for: Your annual average trade size (volume) of 
your past 40 leveraged transaction [sic]  but theres no evidence to suggest Mr P had 
undertaken any leveraged transactions prior to dealing with FXBFI.
 Mr P was initially treated as a retail client, and then recategorized as a professional 
client. COBS chapter 3 allows a firm to treat someone as a professional client if they 
meet two of three criteria (the quantitative test). Ive seen no evidence that Mr P met 
two of the three criteria and Im satisfied he should have failed that test and not been 
treated as a professional client. This recategorization meant that Mr P was no longer 
entitled to negative balance protection  which seems to be why he wasnt able to 
close his account at certain times.
 The FCA Principles of Business (6) states A firm must pay due regard to the interests 
of its customers and treat them fairly. Mr Ps told us that FXBFI called him repeatedly, 
wouldnt allow him to close his account when he asked to and told him he needed to 
invest more money. Ive seen Mr Ps call log for 11 days during the time his FXBFI 
account was open and there were over 70 calls during that time. FXBFI havent 
provided any call logs or recordings. So Im persuaded by Mr Ps testimony that FXBFI 
werent treating him fairly and were pressuring him to invest more.  
 Its clear the matter has caused Mr P significant stress and upset as well as the 
financial loss. Its caused divisions in his family and risked his ability to provide for his 
wife and daughter who are both dependent on him.
Putting things right
Im satisfied FXBFI have failed to treat Mr P fairly from the outset. Im persuaded he wouldnt 
have opened the account if hed been fully aware of the risks involved. So Im directing 
FXBFI Broker Financial Invest Ltd to:
 Refund to Mr P all of the amounts he deposited with them (less the £5,000 refund 
already paid)
 Pay to Mr P simple interest at 8% on each deposit  from the date the deposit was 
made to the date its returned; and
 Pay £500 to Mr P for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman