DRN-3940645
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc unreasonably refused to refund him eight 
transactions totally £6,415 which was taken out of his account between March and April 
2022. 
What happened
On 6 April 2022 Mr R complained to Barclays that eight transactions taken out of his account 
were not authorised by him. 
These were as follows: 
28/03/2022 £10
30/03/2022 £480
31/03/2022 £890
31/03/2022 £95
01/04/2022 £1,275
04/04/2022 £1,495
04/04/2022 £185
04/04/2022 £1,985
Which total £6,415. And that he believed they were fraudulent and should be refunded. It 
transpires the transactions were made to a cryptocurrency exchange. 
Mr D is adamant he didnt make these transactions or authorise them. Barclays said the 
payments were made from Mr Ds registered device with the logins to the Barclays app 
being verified by the correct passcode. It also said Mr D hadnt lost his device and that Mr D 
said he hadnt downloaded anything or being contacted by any company, or the police or 
HMRC etc asking him for his banking details. Therefore, Barclays said it couldnt see how 
his device was compromised to allow access to his bank account. Further it explained that 
given the transactions took place over an eight-day period which isnt usual for fraudsters as 
they would try and take as much as they could as quickly as they could. On this basis 
Barclays said there was no reason for it to refund these transactions to Mr D. 
Mr D then brought his complaint to us. The investigator also felt that because there was no 
evidence of any compromise to Mr Ds device, he didnt think Barclays was required under 
the relevant regulations to refund these transactions to Mr D.
 
Mr D disagreed so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill now explain why.
First, I do understand and appreciate how disappointed Mr D will be with my decision. Im 
aware of the extensive information he has sent in and I have looked through all of it. 
The rules under which banks like Barclays operate to include refunding disputed 
transactions like in Mr Ds complaint are called the Payment Service Regulations (PSRs). 
Under these regulations Barclays should refund the transaction if Mr D didnt authorise them.
 
So, the first issue is whether the disputed transactions were authorised. Authorisation under 
the PSRs is very clearly defined. For a payment transaction to be regarded as having been 
authorised, the bank must show that the Mr D consented to the transaction. This notion of 
consent is very specific. Consent is deemed to have been given by the payer, (Mr D) here, if 
the transaction was done using the form and procedure required to make a payment. In Mr 
Ds complaint this means that the app was properly logged into using the correct passcode 
and from a device registered to the account. There is no dispute between Mr D and Barclays 
that Mr Ds device accessed the app correctly when these eight disputed transactions each 
took place over an eight-day period. 
So, under the PSRs the concept of consent is a formal one. I do understand Mr D is clearly 
of the view he never did these transactions or indeed wanted to do these transactions. But 
given how the app was accessed, and given it was in the correct format, I consider consent 
is consequently deemed to have been given under the PSRs.
 
Further the transaction payment must be authenticated under the PSRs. This means that 
the identity or the validity of the use of the procedure was used correctly. This is the case 
here in Mr Ds complaint as it was his registered device who logged into the app using the 
correct passcode and made the transactions.
 
According to Mr D, his device was never lost, stolen, or mislaid at the times these 
transactions occurred. These transactions took place generally early in the day. The app 
was accessed correctly. The audit trails, online banking logs and mobile banking logs all 
confirm there was no failed log in attempts. The IP address used for these transactions is the 
same used for other undisputed transactions which Mr D made.  
Once a request for a transaction is made to Barclays, under PSRs the bank is under an 
absolute duty to make the payment, which is what Barclays did here on the basis the app 
was accessed by the correct passcode. All customers like Mr D have a duty not to disclose 
their passcodes or security details to anyone. And since Mr Ds device was not stolen or 
mislaid, I dont consider its unreasonable for Barclays to conclude the transactions were 
either done by Mr D or someone else on his behalf. 
Also, these transactions were done over a period of eight days and in between these 
disputed transactions Mr D is seen to have accessed his online banking too. Furthermore, 
the cryptocurrency account whilst not using Mr Ds full name, did have the right email 
address and postcode for Mr D too. Sadly, despite efforts to fully identify this crypto account 
that is all the information weve been able to get.
Barclays has also explained to us that in order to set up a new payee on an account, the 
fraudster would have had to provide details of the CVV and expiry date from their debit card 
or their Barclays app 5 digit passcode. The customer will receive one of these options at the 
end of the payment journey and are unable to choose which method they can use to 
complete the transaction. Therefore, the fraudster would have had to have both to hand 
depending on which one was required. Most importantly in my view the transactions start small and then generally get larger in 
value over the eight days. From what this service understands about how fraud and scams 
operate it would seem very unusual for a fraudster with full access to Mr Ds device and 
therefore online banking, to only take a small proportion of the overall balance as in this 
account alone the balance at the time of these disputed transactions was £94,000, plus Mr D 
had other savings accounts with significant balances. So, its odd any fraudster wouldnt 
have helped themselves to some of that too. 
I appreciate that Mr R has gone to an extensive amount of trouble to detail a significant 
amount of information about scams and specifically remote access scams. But again if a 
fraudster gained such remote access (which is difficult when Mr R is also very clear that he 
didnt unwittingly download something unusual or was tricked into giving security 
information) why only take such small amounts (given the overall balance) and over an eight 
period too. That doesnt seem very likely in my view. Lastly Barclays in addition to confirming 
there were no failed logins also saw no third-party access to Mr Rs account, which means 
his account was accessed by his registered device with the passcode which only Mr R knew.
Therefore, on balance I dont consider Barclays did anything wrong in refusing to refund Mr 
R these disputed transactions since theres no evidence other than Mr R or someone on his 
behalf authorised these disputed transactions. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman