DRN-3469765
The complaint
Ms E complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) did not refund several 
payments she made to a company she thought was a legitimate investments trading firm, 
which I will refer to as Company O in this decision.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, in 2019, Ms E made several payments to what she thought was her trading account 
with Company O.  These payments were made using Ms Es RBS Visa debit card.  At the 
time, Ms E says she believed Company O were a legitimate investments trading company.  
However, she says she later discovered they were operating a scam.
Ms E asked RBS to recover the money she lost.  Because this did not happen, she raised a 
complaint which she also referred to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  He said that when 
Ms E made her payments to Company O: they were subject to regulation by the Cyprus 
Securities and Exchange Commission (CySEC); and due to being based in the EEA, this 
regulation was passported for them to operate in the UK.  For this reason, amongst other 
things, the investigator held that he had seen no credible evidence to persuade him that 
Company O were operating a scam at the time.  Therefore, he did not ask RBS to refund Ms 
E her money.
Ms E did not accept the investigators findings.  As an agreement could not be reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
It is common ground that the payments in question were authorised by Ms E for the 
purposes of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time.  
This is because they were made by Ms E using the legitimate security credentials provided 
to her by RBS.  These, therefore, must be regarded as authorised payments.  This is 
important because, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of Ms Es 
bank account, she is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering.  But when simply executing authorised 
payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains or give 
investment advice  and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has confirmed that a fraud 
warning would not constitute unauthorised investment advice.
So, the first question I need to consider is whether Company O operated a scam at the time 
Ms E made her payments to them.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as binary options is in fact a scam.  
Some cases simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in disappointing returns or 
losses.
Certain high-risk investment traders may have promoted these products using sales 
methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading.  However, whilst customers who 
lost out may understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not 
necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud; i.e. dishonestly making 
a false representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a 
gain for himself, or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud 
Act 2006).
In simpler terms, some platforms/merchants may have used sales and promotional methods 
that could be seen to be unfair by consumers considering the losses theyve incurred  but 
this does not always amount to fraud.
When considering this for Ms Es case, Ive paid particular attention to the official 
organisations that publish warnings about merchants that operate in the UK and abroad.  I 
have searched the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that brings together the world's securities 
regulators.  And the FCA (as the UK regulator) also has its own warning list, which is in 
place to share alerts and insight about merchants that have been identified as potentially 
being fraudulent.
Upon checking both, it is my understanding that Company O have no warnings reported 
about them.  Indeed, my own research has not resulted in any credible information to show 
they were fraudulent.  
Rather, from what I have found, when Ms E made her payments, Company O were 
regulated by CySEC; previously passported into the UK as they were an EEA based firm.  
This ended in June 2020 (after Ms Es payments to Company O).
I must therefore take into account that there is strong evidence here  particularly because 
there are no regulator warnings that were published at the material time  that Company O 
had not been identified as a fraudulent company when the payments were made.  
I do not shy away from the fact that there is negative information about Company O online.  
However, whilst I acknowledge this could be seen as circumstantial evidence that helps 
paint an overall picture of Company O  I am not persuaded that it is sufficient evidence of 
fraud.  I say this because I must place weight on credible evidence  for example, warnings 
about companies placed on IOSCOs Alerts Portal and/or those published on the FCA website.  In Ms Es case, there are no such warnings about Company O.  Moreover, as I 
have mentioned, they were regulated by the CySEC  and passported into the UK  at the 
time.
Therefore, I must follow the evidence before me and, essentially, I have seen no credible 
evidence to persuade me with any degree of certainty that Company O were operating a 
scam at the time concerned.  
Finally, some banks may now choose not to allow transactions such as those Ms E made, 
because of the risks involved.  But the fact remains that this was not an illegal activity, and 
many customers now demand faster payments out of their account  which the regulations 
are designed to facilitate. 
RBSs duty is to guard against the risk of fraud and scams; it is not to give investment advice 
or protect consumers from bad bargains.  Ultimately, Ms E paid a legitimate company.  To 
that end, I cannot safely conclude that RBS acted unfairly or unreasonably by not intervening 
to ask questions about Ms Es payments before they were let go  even when taking into 
account Ms Es points about her being vulnerable to scams.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman