DRN-3238554
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (Hitachi) rejected his claim against it 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of some solar 
panels.
Background
Mr D bought solar panels for his home in October 2013. He paid a deposit of £4,000, and the 
balance was funded by a loan from Hitachi, and that business is therefore liable for the acts 
and omissions of the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the 
installer misleading Mr D into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they 
werent.
Mr Ds complaint (in which he is represented by a claims management company) was 
considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of the panels were mis-
represented to Mr D, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be restructured to 
effectively make the panels self-funding during the eight year term of the loan. This 
restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a 
number of assumptions about future performance.
Hitachi accepted that the panels had been mis-sold, but it objected to the recommended 
compensation because Mr D had sold his house a couple of years after buying the panels, 
and so it argued that he had chosen to forego the future benefits of the panels during the 
remainder of the loan term. Hitachi said it would not be fair to make it pay Mr D for the 
panels during a period in which he no longer had them. It proposed that instead, it should 
only have to pay Mr D enough to make the panels self-funding during the period for which he 
had them.
Mr Ds representative asked for more compensation than the adjudicator had recommended, 
because it was likely that if the panels had performed as expected then Mr D would have got 
a better price for the house.
Our adjudicator did not agree with either party, and so the case was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hitachi and Mr Ds representative are familiar with all the rules, regulations and good 
industry practice we consider when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-
established approach. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
It is no longer in dispute that the panels were mis-sold, so I uphold this complaint. The only 
issue left for me to consider is what would be fair compensation on the facts of this case  
specifically, what difference it should make, if any, that Mr D moved house before the end of 
the loan term, leaving the panels behind.
I think the point made on Mr Ds behalf that he might have got a better sale price for the 
house if the panels had been performing better is a bit too speculative. I have no way of 
knowing if the buyers knew how well the panels were performing, or if they realised that the 
panels were not meeting Mr Ds expectations, or if they even cared about the panels at all.
I have considered Hitachis argument, but I am not persuaded by it either. Its true that it was 
Mr Ds choice to sell his house and to forgo the future benefit of the panels, while he still has 
to make his loan payments. But the house sale is not the real reason he will be out of 
pocket. He would never have had the loan and the panels in the first place if the panels had 
not been misrepresented to him at the point of sale (and the house would still have been 
sold). So any financial detriment to him is, first and foremost, the result of the 
misrepresentation, for which Hitachi is liable; the house sale is incidental.
In these circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to ask Hitachi to calculate 
compensation by making allowance only for the actual returns Mr D received whilst he 
owned the property in question. The fact he independently chose to move a couple of years 
after the sale of the solar panels, not to take them with him (which would be impractical and 
expensive), and therefore receive no further return from the panels is not something it would 
be fair to ask Hitachi to take into account in the circumstances.
Putting things right
So, having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ds complaint for Hitachi to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income Mr D would have received from 
the solar panels over the eight year term of the loan if he had not moved house, so that he 
pays no more than that. (This calculation must of course take into account the £4,000 
deposit he paid.)
If the calculation shows that Mr D is paying (or has paid) more than he should have, then 
Hitachi need to reimburse him accordingly. (Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
him by way of explanation.)
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Hitachi to 
restructure the loan. They should recalculate the loan to put Mr D in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost-neutral over the eight year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr Ds monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would have paid more each month than he should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as he would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, 
I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr D 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c) the overpayments are returned to Mr D and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr D and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr D accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr D has settled the loan, Hitachi should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with interest at 8% a 
year.
If Mr D has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Hitachi, and then Hitachi must: 
1. Refund the extra Mr D paid each month with the Hitachi loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr D receives his refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr D paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr D receives his refund.
5. Pay Mr D the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would 
have owed if the system had been self-funding.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr D first 
contacted Hitachi that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Hitachi must 
pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint. Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc  must 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Hitachi must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it that Mr D 
has accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this, then it must also pay simple interest 
on the compensation at 8 percent a year from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment.
If Hitachi considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should also give Mr D a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Mr D should refer back to Hitachi if he is unsure of the approach it has taken, and both 
parties should contact HMRC if they want to know more about the tax treatment of this 
portion of the compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman