DRN-2938335
The complaint
Miss J complains Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) increased her 
credit card limit, without carrying out sufficient affordability checks.
What happened
Miss J says she held a credit card with Barclays and over time her credit limit with them was 
substantially increased from £800 to £4,500. Miss J says she was experiencing financial 
difficulties, but Barclays didnt carry out any affordability checks when increasing her credit 
card limits. Miss J says Barclays have also written to her accepting they shouldnt have 
increased her borrowing and offered her £75 by way of compensation. Miss J feels this has 
led her into considerable debt which is now managed by a debt collection agency and has 
affected her credit rating. In addition, Miss J says  she has suffered with anxiety issues as a 
result and wants Barclays to pay her compensation for the stress this has caused her and 
have her credit file amended accordingly. 
Barclays says they did carry out sufficient checks before issuing the credit card to Miss J. 
Barclays says the letter Miss J refers to, was a generic letter sent to many of its customers 
who they felt may have been affected by a technical fault in their credit assessment model. 
Barclays says having reviewed Miss Js circumstances, like many customers, she wasnt 
impacted by the fault, but offered £75 to apologise for the concern. Barclays feel they acted 
responsibly when providing the credit card facilities to Miss J and were not made aware of 
her suffering from any financial difficulties at the time. Barclays say they are working with a 
debt charity acting on Miss Js behalf and have not charged any interest on her credit card 
since they were informed of her issues. 
Miss J wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld Mis Js complaint. She felt 
while Barclays had undertaken a degree of credit assessment this didnt go far enough, and 
Barclays didnt carry out sufficient further checks on Miss Js outgoings to determine if the 
credit card debt was affordable. The investigator asked Barclays to reverse all interest and 
charges on Miss Js credit card and her credit file to be amended accordingly. 
Barclays were unhappy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been a difficult time for Miss J and I was sorry to learn of the 
anxiety and stress this matter has caused her. When looking at this complaint I will consider 
whether Barclays carried out sufficient, proportionate and appropriate affordability checks 
before providing the level of credit card facilities it did to Miss J. 
Miss J had two credit cards with Barclays the first of which, card 1, had a limit increased 
from £400 to £800 over a 3-year period. From what I have seen this is not the main issue 
surrounding Miss Js complaint, this has more to do with the second credit card, card 2, 
issued in September 2017 when a limit was approved of £4,500. From the information I have 
seen shows the card1 operated well and there were little or no issues with the operation of 
that credit card and Barclays did carry out the level of checks I would have expected to see 
at the time it was issued back in 2014. As I say, Miss Js problems and complaint centres 
around the provision of credit card 2, with a significantly higher level of credit approved in 
September 2017. So, for the purpose of this decision, I will be looking at the actions Barclays 
took when they approved credit card 2 for Miss J. Miss J says she received correspondence 
from Barclays to suggest their own credit assessment model had issues and paid her £75 for 
the problem. I have considered this point but from the information I have seen, this was a 
generic letter sent to many of its customers and I am satisfied that this didnt materially 
impact on Barclays decision whether or not to apply the increased limit in September 2017. 
At the time the second credit card was issued to Miss J, Barclays had in effect increased her 
overall credit limit with them from £800 to £5,300 an increase of over six-fold. Barclays have 
told this service they carried out the same checks they would normally undertake when 
increasing a consumers credit limit, but here used their add a card process which meant a 
new credit card account was opened, to secure a 0% interest rate offer for Miss J. Barclays 
says they relied on credit reference agency data, before increasing the credit limit, which 
established a high confidence income score. 
The first thing to say here is Miss J didnt inform Barclays that she was in financial difficulties 
at the time she applied for the increased credit card limit. While I can understand, from her 
personal circumstances why that may have been, and the stress and anxiety she may have 
been facing at this time, I cant hold Barclays responsible for not knowing this if they were 
never told. That said, when considering if sufficient, proportionate and appropriate checks 
were carried out at the time the facility was provided, I cant ignore the level of increased 
credit provided to Miss J here, after all this was a fairly substantial increase and not a matter 
of a few hundred pounds. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) have made clear that firms must undertake a 
reasonable assessment when a significant increase is made to the amount of credit made 
available to its customers, which was the case here. Barclays believe they have made a 
reasonable assessment.
Its worth mentioning  under FCA CONC rules they also would expect where appropriate:  
CONC 5.2A.7 : A firm must base its creditworthiness assessment on sufficient information: 
(1) of which it is aware at the time the creditworthiness assessment is carried out;
(2) obtained, where appropriate, from the customer, and where necessary from a credit 
reference agency
Given the circumstances here - a credit limit of over six times the previous credit card limit 
was approved, and Barclays had no further direct customer financial information since 2014, 
around three years before, I am satisfied it was appropriate to ask for further customer 
information at that point. I say this as it would have, on balance, given Barclays a clearer 
understanding of Miss Js true outgoings and indebtedness and it follows, Barclays simply 
relying on third party credit reference data wasnt sufficient here. Barclays have told this service they reduced the credit limit in July 2018 on receipt of adverse credit information 
received and in the same way if they had asked for up to date financial information from Miss 
J in September 2017, I am satisfied they would have had more up to date information 
available to them, to make a more informed decision. 
Whats worth saying here is Miss J has benefited from the spending made on credit card 2 
and from the interest free period she also received, so its fair to say she hasnt suffered any 
substantial financial costs for the borrowing and Barclays have already paid her £75, so I am 
satisfied, like the investigator that further compensation isnt warranted here. 
While Barclays will be disappointed with my decision, I support the outcome of the 
investigator. 
Putting things right
I instruct Barclays to refund any interest and charges applied to credit card 2 since its 
opening in September 2017 and remove any adverse information held on Miss Js credit file 
relating to that credit card. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Barclays to refund any interest charges applied to credit card 2 since its opening in 
September 2017 and remove any adverse information held on Miss Js credit file relating to 
that credit card.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman