DRN-3769861
The complaint
Ms L complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) unfairly defaulted her loan account.
 
What happened
In December 2016, Ms L entered into a loan agreement with Barclays for £13,500. The loan 
was due to last 60 months ending in January 2021. She was required to pay monthly 
instalments of £338.
During early 2020, Ms L experienced financial difficulty and this was made worse by the 
impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. She was unable to afford the instalments. By way of 
support, Barclays agreed to a three month nil payment plan in May 2020 meaning Ms L 
didnt need to make any repayments between May and July 2020.
Following a review of her financial circumstances, Barclays agreed to a further nil payment 
plan in August 2020 as they considered her situation hadnt changed. Despite this, Ms L paid 
the monthly instalments.
Ms L made what she believed was the final instalment on 5 January 2021. On 6 January 
2021, she received a notice saying she was £783 in arrears. The following month in 
February 2021, she was told the arrears was £1,032. 
Ms L said she was confused by the increased arrears, she believed she only owed the 
equivalent of two months of arrears (around £783). She contacted Barclays for clarity but 
she wasnt satisfied with their response as she didnt believe their explanation was sufficient. 
Ms L makes a payment and in April 2021, she gets another notice to say the arrears was 
£678. In May 2021, Barclays issued a default letter stating the arrears of £678 must be paid 
by 3 June 2021.
Ms L contacted Barclays to question the balance she owed but they didnt respond with an 
explanation. She made another payment. As the full amount required to satisfy the default 
wasnt paid, the account defaulted with a balance owing of around £300. Ms L complained.
Barclays accepted their level of service couldve been better as she had asked for an 
explanation about the balance and that hadnt been received. They apologised and offered 
£50 compensation. They said the loans final payment of £234 was due on 6 January 2021 
and it wasnt paid and the final arrears notice was made up of missed payments and interest. 
They said they had correctly applied the default.  
Unhappy with their response, Ms L referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case wasnt upheld. They accepted Barclays service wasnt satisfactory 
but overall they found they had correctly calculated the balance owed. They said as the 
default hadnt been satisfied, Barclays acted fairly in defaulting the account. Ms L disagreed. 
In October 2022, I issued a provisional decision outlining my intentions to uphold the 
complaint. I said:
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its fair to say Ms L was confused by the calculation 
of the balance owed. She believed the loan had matured when she made the payment on 5 
January 2021. It would appear based on the arrears notice dated 6 January 2021, she 
thought she only owed the equivalent of two months of arrears. For that reason, she couldnt 
understand why the arrears had increased by around £300 to £1,032 in February 2021. 
As part of my review, Ive considered the account statements and arrears letters. Having 
done so, Im satisfied Barclays have clearly calculated the amount Ms L owed. Had the loan 
ran to plan, Ms L wouldve paid 60 instalments with the final one on 6 January 2021. 
However unfortunately that wasnt the case. Im sorry to hear Ms L experienced financial 
difficulty, I appreciate that wouldve been a difficult time for her.  
Having considered Ms Ls financial circumstances, Barclays agreed to two nil payment plans 
of three months in May and August 2020. Given the circumstances, I believe Barclays acted 
fairly and treated Ms L with due consideration and forbearance as I would expect. Despite 
the nil payment plans requiring no payments, Ms L managed to pay three out of the six 
instalments meaning the account was in three months arrears. I find this demonstrates Ms 
Ls willingness and capability to get the account back on track.
The monthly instalments were due on 6th of each month. Evidence shows Ms L paid an 
instalment on 5 January 2021 but the actual final payment was owed on 6 January 2021 and 
there is no evidence this was paid. I can accept Ms L may have thought she had paid the 
final instalment and only owed the arrears but that wasnt the case. 
So when the arrears notice was issued on 6 January 2021, the final payment due on 6 
January 2021 wasnt included as it had yet to be considered arrears. However by the time of 
the notice in February 2021, it had been taken into account, hence the increased arrears 
amount to £1,032. I note this is the equivalent of around three months arrears which Ive 
already explained above is what Ms L owed. Based on the evidence Ive seen, there is 
nothing to suggest Barclays had incorrectly calculated what Ms L owed. Im satisfied theyve 
required her to pay the amount owed as per the agreement. 
Given the timing of the arrears notices, the date of the final payment and the increased 
arrears, I can understand why there would be some confusion. Records show Ms L 
contacted Barclays on a few occasions to get clarity and an explanation as to why the 
arrears amount had increased. Given her financial circumstances at the time, I can 
understand why she would want to make sure she paid the right amount. She said their 
responses werent adequate and based on Barclays contact notes, Im inclined to agree with 
her. Barclays call agents werent able to give a specific explanation, I find their responses 
were somewhat generic in so far as saying the outstanding balance wouldve been made up 
of missed payments and interest. A call agent had to refer to another team to get more 
information and Ms L was promised call backs but it doesnt appear that happened. In an 
attempt to respond to her request, Barclays sent her statements for 2019 which I dont find to 
have any real relevance to the time period concerned. I can understand why this would 
frustrate Ms L. She had been asking for clarity since March 2021 but it wasnt forthcoming.
Im not convinced Ms L was disputing paying the outstanding balance but instead she 
wanted to understand how it had been calculated before doing so. In the circumstances, I 
find it wouldve been reasonable for Barclays to provide a clear explanation and to do so 
before the default deadline but there is no evidence they did. 
Barclays may argue Ms L had received account statements and arrears notices which 
outlined the payments and the outstanding balance. While I accept that to be the case, if Ms 
L was uncertain and unclear about that information, I wouldve expected them to explain it to her. Had they done so, Im persuaded Ms L wouldve accepted the same and paid the 
required amount to satisfy the default by the deadline. I say that because based on what she 
had paid so far, it was clear she was keen to avoid the default. I note by the time the account 
defaulted in June 2020 it was for the £300, which is the amount she had been asking for 
clarity on. She had made all other payments. Based on the contact notes, it was only after 
the account defaulted that a more detailed explanation from Barclays about the calculation 
was provided to Ms L but by that time it was too late. 
Taking everything into account, while I accept Barclays had correctly calculated what Ms L 
owed, Im not satisfied they treated Ms L fairly by defaulting the account. She had made 
repeated requests for an explanation and clarity about what was owed but this wasnt 
forthcoming. Im not persuaded the level of service provided by Barclays was fair nor 
reasonable in this case. 
In terms of putting things right, in the event Ms L and Barclays accept the above findings, I 
intend to say she should pay the outstanding balance (if not already paid). Thereafter, 
Barclays should remove the default from her credit file and make sure all internal and 
external records are updated to reflect the same.
Its clear Ms L was caused worry and upset by this situation, that can be seen by the extent 
of her communication. Im aware Barclays has already offered £50 compensation but I 
believe this should be increased to a total of £150 for the trouble and upset caused to Ms L. 
Lastly, since the complaint was brought to our service Ms L has expressed concerns about 
the information Barclays has recorded to credit reference agencies concerning the 
management of the account. As that point wasnt subject to the initial complaint, I wont be 
commenting on it. That would have to be raised as a separate complaint should Ms L 
choose to do so. 
Response to the provisional decision
Both parties responded to say they accepted the findings of the provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the basis I havent been provided with any further information, I still consider my findings 
to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Therefore, my final decision is the same for 
the reasons as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Ms Ls complaint. 
To put things right, Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
-Remove the default from Ms Ls credit file and update all internal and external 
records to reflect the same once she has paid the outstanding balance (if not already 
paid);
-Pay £150 compensation to Ms L for the trouble and upset caused. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman