DRN-1312922
The complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc irresponsibly sold him a loan he could not afford.
 
What happened
In 2013 Mr K took out a personal loan with HSBC. He used this to pay back an earlier loan. 
He says he could not afford this loan because he had a gambling addiction. He said HSBC 
ought to have known that he was in financial difficulty because he had been using his 
overdraft to make the loan repayments on the original loan.
HSBC said it had not known about Mr Ks gambling until 2014. It had carried out credit 
checks and credit scoring at the time of granting the loan application, and Mr K had passed. 
Our investigator agreed, and so he did not uphold this complaint.
Mr K asked for an ombudsman to review his case. He insisted that making his loan 
payments from his overdraft should have been enough to warn HSBC that he couldnt afford 
the loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Mr K did not tell HSBC about his gambling addiction until late 2014, so 
I would not expect HSBC to have known about it when it sold the loan.
I accept that HSBC carried out credit checks, credit scoring, and an income and expenditure 
assessment when it considered Mr Ks loan application, and that he passed these checks. 
The monthly repayments on the new loan were only £39 more than on the old loan. Mr Ks 
declared monthly income of £40,000 was about nine times the new loan repayments.
I have had regard to the Office of Fair Tradings 2011 guidelines, Irresponsible Lending  
OFT Guidance for Creditors, which were in force at the time. However, I cant see that these 
included a requirement for lenders to take into account the source of the funds used to make 
loan repayments (i.e., making payments from an overdrawn current account). It was enough 
to take into account his income and expenditure  that is, the loan payments were made 
from his salary after it was paid into his current account. Mr Ks current account was 
overdrawn, but he was still managing to maintain the account and prevent the overdraft from 
increasing unsustainably. The existence of the overdraft would have been taken into account 
in the credit scoring and credit checks.
For these reasons, I dont agree that HSBC lent to Mr K irresponsibly.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman