DRN-2455887
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that TSB Bank plc didnt allow payments to go through on his account, 
despite there being sufficient money in his account, and that they charged him for this.
What happened
Mr M had a regular payment to his credit card set up on his TSB bank account. But TSB 
didnt make the payments on either 28 February 2020 or 27 April 2020, saying there wasnt 
enough money in his account to do so. And they charged him £3 on each occasion.
Mr M complained to TSB, saying there was enough money in his account, and the payments 
shouldve been made. And he was able to make manual payments to his credit card, on the 
same day each payment was due, and these payments were allowed. So he said TSB had 
acted unfairly by charging him for the missed payments. TSB didnt agree with Mr M, so he 
brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said Mr M had a standing order paying money into his TSB account on the 
same day the credit card payment was due. And in February and April 2020 there was only 
enough money in his account to pay the credit card once the standing order had been 
received. 
On each occasion TSB had first tried to make the payment before the standing order had 
been received, so there wasnt enough money to do so. And when TSB tried to make the 
payment again later on in the day, Mr M had already made a manual payment to his credit 
card, so there wasnt enough money in his account to make the payment. Because of this, 
the investigator didnt think TSB had done anything wrong.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He said the issue was with TSBs IT systems  when 
he made the manual payments, the system showed the payment as being deleted, so he 
didnt think that TSB would try to pay it again. And he thought that if TSB had tried to make 
the payment between receiving the standing order and him making the manual payment, 
then this situation wouldnt have happened. So he thought that the fees should be refunded.
TSB explained that future payments are only visible until the day before theyre due to be 
paid, which is their process. And they thought that, if Mr M was concerned about the 
payment not having been made, he couldve contacted them about this. 
So, because they followed their process, and made the attempts they said they would in the 
terms and conditions of Mr Ms account, TSB remained of the view that they hadnt done 
anything wrong. Mr M didnt agree with TSBs explanation, so this has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms account with TSB say that:
The payment will be made shortly after midnight on the due date  if theres not enough 
money in your account, it wont go through. Well try four times to make it.
Shortly after midnight on the due date or next working day.
Again early in the morning that same day. Well usually try between 5am and 7am, 
but sometimes well need to try slightly earlier than 5am or later than 7am.
Again after 2:30pm that same day.
Shortly after midnight the next working day after we first tried to make the payment.
If it still doesnt go through after the fourth try, it wont be paid (it is refused due to lack of 
funds) and youll be charged a fee.
These terms are clear in whatll happen and when. And Mr M hasnt said he hadnt been 
provided with a copy of the terms. Because of this, I think its reasonable for TSB to rely on 
the terms when both trying to make the payment, and when charging if the payment is 
unsuccessful.
Payment for 28 February 2020
Mr M had asked TSB to make a payment for £874.46 to his credit card. At 00:01 on 28 
February 2020 Mr M had a balance of £491.09 in his account, which was insufficient to make 
the payment hed requested. And the first attempt TSB made was unsuccessful.
A standing order for £500 went into Mr Ms account at 00:21, taking the balance to £991.09. 
TSBs terms say theyll make a second attempt usually between 5am and 7am, but it might 
be slightly earlier than 5am, and it might be later than 7am. But, because the third attempt 
will be after 2:30pm, Id expect the second attempt (if later than 7am) to be no later than 
2:30pm.
Mr M manually paid £874.46 to his credit card at 10:41, taking the balance down to £116.63. 
And this was before TSB had made the second attempt. So, as a result of insufficient funds 
in the account, the second and all subsequent attempts to take the payment failed. And TSB 
charged Mr M a returned item fee of £3.
Payment for 27 April 2020
Mr M had asked TSB to make a payment for £887.29 to his credit card. At 00:01 on 27 April 
2020 Mr M had a balance of £612.43 in his account, which was insufficient to make the 
payment hed requested. So the first attempt TSB made was unsuccessful.
A standing order for £500 went into Mr Ms account at 00:15, taking the balance to 
£1,162.43. Mr M manually paid £887.29 to his credit card at 10:20, taking the balance down 
to £275.14. Again this was before TSB had made the second attempt. So, as a result of 
insufficient funds, the second and all subsequent attempts to take the payment failed. And 
TSB charged Mr M a returned item fee of £3.From what Ive seen, the problem occurred because of a specific set of circumstances:
Mr M paid a standing order into his account on the day the payment was due, and 
there were insufficient funds in his account to make the requested payment before 
this was received. So the first attempt to make payment failed.
TSBs second attempt, which could be made later than 7am, was made later that 
7am.
Mr M had made a manual payment before TSB made a second attempt at payment, 
so there were insufficient funds in the account for the second and all subsequent 
attempts.
The terms were clear that the second attempt could be made after 7am, and that TSB would 
charge if all four attempts to make payment were unsuccessful. So I dont think TSB did 
anything wrong by making the second attempt later than 7am, or by charging Mr M when 
they couldnt make the requested payment.
Mr M has said that, when he checked his account, the payments werent showing as being 
scheduled to be paid. Which is why he made them manually. TSB have explained their 
process and that future payments dont show on or after the day they were due to be paid. 
Im satisfied this explanation was reasonable, and its not my role to tell TSB what their 
process should be  this is something between themselves and their regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority.
Because of the above, Im satisfied that TSB didnt do anything wrong. So I wont be asking 
them to refund the charges to Mr M, or to take any other action.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman