DRN-4252577
The complaint
Mr F and Miss S are unhappy with the amount Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) offered to 
settle their claim following an escape of water.
Mr F and Miss S jointly held buildings and contents insurance underwritten by Aviva. For 
ease of reading, Ill refer only to Mr F throughout my decision and any reference to Aviva 
includes its agents.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont go into detail. Instead, 
Ill summarise the key points here and move on to explain my decision.
Mr F claimed under his policy after a pipe burst, causing damage to his ceiling and kitchen 
units. Aviva accepted the claim. However, Avivas cash settlement offer was around half the 
amount of Mr Fs repair quote. 
Unhappy with Avivas offer, Mr F complained. Aviva had a second survey done and the offer 
increased slightly, but still nowhere near Mr Fs quote. Aviva issued a final response 
explaining that the difference was because Mr F had quoted for a full new fitted kitchen, 
whereas his policy didnt provide cover for undamaged matching items. That said, Aviva 
offered £100 by way of apology for the issues Mr F experienced with the settlement.
Mr F brought his complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt think Aviva had done enough. She said a fair approach to the issue of 
matching items would be for Aviva to contribute 50% towards the replacement cost of the 
undamaged items. Mr F asked about alternative accommodation because Aviva hadnt 
offered it. Our investigator thought Aviva should also consider whether alternative 
accommodation would be required.
Aviva didnt agree with the proposal to pay 50% towards undamaged items. It said when Mr 
F bought his policy online, he didnt select matching items cover which wouldve attracted a 
higher premium. Therefore, Aviva didnt think it would be fair if it provided Mr F the same 
cover as that for which other customers had paid a premium. 
Aviva also pointed out that alternative accommodation would be considered under the policy 
when work was agreed, so it hadnt reached the appropriate point in the claim to make an 
offer.
I issued a provisional decision in July 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr Fs 
complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
The details of the claim arent in dispute, and Aviva accepted that an escape of water 
caused damage to Mr Fs home. Aviva confirmed it would cover the cost of the ceiling 
repairs. The issue, then, is whether Aviva made a fair settlement offer in respect of the 
kitchen units.
Policy
Aviva offered a settlement to cover the cost of repairing or replacing the damaged kitchen 
units and worktop. Mr Fs quote was for a full kitchen replacement.
The policy doesnt provide cover for undamaged matching sets. Aviva provided a copy of the 
policy summary which shows that when Mr F bought the policy, there was a choice of three 
levels of cover. The summary table clearly shows that matching sets wasnt covered by the 
policy Mr F chose but he couldve selected matching sets as additional cover with a higher 
premium. 
The information provided at point of sale was clear, so I think its more likely than not that Mr 
F made an active choice not to take out additional cover which included matching sets. So, I 
can understand why Aviva didnt offer to contribute towards the cost of repair or replacement 
of the undamaged kitchen units.
Undamaged units
Ive looked at the photos Mr F provided which show all the units in his kitchen. There are 
around nine units visible in the photos, four of which were originally damaged by the escape 
of water. Mr F confirmed the units are no longer available to buy. Because of this, through no 
fault of its own, Aviva cant put Mr F back in the position he was in before the damage 
happened. It can pay to replace the damaged units, which will give Mr F a complete kitchen 
again, but hell have suffered a loss of match. That means four units in a prominent location 
within his kitchen would look different to the rest. 
It would be unfair to ask Aviva to pay for a full replacement kitchen when Mr F didnt select 
and pay for the additional cover. But its also unfair that Mr F has a kitchen in worse 
condition than before the damage happened. Although we often recommend that insurers 
contribute 50% towards the undamaged items, that is only the case when the insurer hasnt 
made it clear that either matching items cover wasnt available, or that it was available to buy 
as an optional extra. As Ive already said, Aviva made this information clear when Mr F 
bought the policy, so I dont think the 50% contribution is warranted here.
That said, I do think Aviva should compensate Mr F for the loss of match. Aviva will already 
be paying for four of the nine units to be replaced. If I asked Aviva to pay 50% of the 
undamaged units, Mr F would be getting a full new kitchen for the cost to him of two and a 
half cupboards. That doesnt feel fair when he hadnt bought the additional cover. Therefore, 
I plan to require Aviva to pay 25% of the cost to match or replace the undamaged fitted 
kitchen parts which would otherwise be a visible mismatch when the cupboard doors are 
shut. I think that represents a fair contribution. As the compensation would be a cash 
payment, it would be up to Mr F how he uses it. For example, he may wish to use it as part 
payment of a full replacement kitchen, or he may prefer to have just his damaged units 
replaced or use the contribution towards a bespoke matching service.
I understand Mr F and Miss S may be disappointed with my provisional decision. However, 
unless they provide compelling evidence, Im minded to think that a greater contribution to 
the undamaged units would be an unfair benefit to them given that other customers paid an 
additional premium for the peace of mind the additional cover brings.  
Alternative Accommodation
Mr F said Aviva hadnt offered alternative accommodation which he said he was entitled to under the policy.
Aviva explained that it hadnt reached the appropriate point in the claim to offer alternative 
accommodation. In light of its comments, Im minded to agree that its not fair to consider this 
point in my provisional decision because to do so would be in anticipation of a service 
shortfall. Therefore, I dont plan to ask Aviva to do anything about this point. If the time arises 
that alternative accommodation becomes an issue, Mr F would need to raise his concerns 
directly with Aviva in the first instance.
I said I was minded to require Aviva to:
pay 25% of the cost to match or replace the undamaged units which would otherwise 
be a visible mismatch to the rest of the kitchen.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mr F asked for clarification of the claim settlement amount Aviva would pay if it contributed 
25% towards the undamaged kitchen units. After we explained that Aviva will determine the 
final settlement amount, Mr F accepted my provisional decision and asked for the matter to 
be finalised so they could get their home repaired.
Aviva didnt agree with my provisional decision. It questioned how it would be fair to other 
customers who had paid for the additional cover if Mr F and Miss S benefited from a 
contribution to undamaged units provided by a policy extra they chose not to buy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Fs complaint for the same reasons and in the 
same way that I set out in my provisional decision.
As Mr F accepted my provisional decision, Ill focus on Avivas response.
I understand the point Aviva is making about Mr F benefiting from cover he didnt buy. But I 
dont agree that he would be receiving the same level of cover as he wouldve done if hed 
chosen to buy the extra cover. In a similar situation, the customers who paid for the 
additional cover would be getting full cover for the undamaged parts of the kitchen. Thats 
not what Im asking Aviva to do here.
Mr F will need to incur costs if he wants his undamaged kitchen units replaced so that they 
match the new units covered under the policy. Thats not benefiting from the policy in a way 
other customers, whod paid the additional premium, would.
As I said in my provisional decision, Aviva cant put Mr F back in the position he was in 
before the damage because the kitchen cupboard doors are no longer available. Replacing 
just the damaged doors would leave Mr F with an obvious mismatch, which I think leaves 
him in a worse position than before the damage happened. Its for this loss of match that I 
think its reasonable for Aviva to compensate Mr F. I dont expect Aviva to pay towards any 
part of the undamaged kitchen units which arent immediately visible, so the contribution is 
likely to be relatively limited. 
Overall, Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable for Aviva to make a 25% contribution towards the undamaged kitchen units as compensation to Mr F and Miss S for the loss of 
match.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Fs and 
Miss Ss complaint and Aviva Insurance Limited must:
pay 25% of the cost to match or replace the undamaged units which would otherwise 
be a visible mismatch to the rest of the kitchen.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman