DRN-3959866
The complaint
Miss D complains Plata Finance Limited trading as Zopa (then trading as Zopa Limited) 
irresponsibly provided her with a loan that was unaffordable for her.
What happened
Zopa provided Miss D with a loan of £4,000 in August 2018. The loan was for over a term of 
48 months, with repayments of around £130. The total repayable value was around £6,200 
which included interest and fees.
Miss D complained to Zopa saying it had irresponsibly arranged the loan because it didnt 
complete reasonable and proportionate checks; and that had it done so it would have 
identified the loan was unaffordable for her. Zopa didnt uphold Miss Ds complaint. 
Our investigator reviewed Miss Ds complaint and upheld it. Zopa didnt agree with our 
investigators findings, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
I recently issued a provisional decision where I set out, with reasons, my initial thoughts on 
this case and what I was intending to decide. The following is an extract from that provisional 
decision:
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ds complaint. 
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time Zopa lent required it to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks to assess Miss Ds ability to afford the loan and repay 
it sustainably over its term, without having to borrow to repay the loan or cause her financial 
difficulties. 
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as the borrowers individual circumstances. 
And it isnt sufficient for Zopa to just complete proportionate checks  it must also consider 
the information it obtains from these checks to go on and make a fair lending decision. This 
includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be 
made sustainably without the need to borrow further.
Ive taken all of this into account when thinking about Zopas lending decision.
Zopa has said Miss D declared her income as around £1,700 which it verified via an online 
credit check. It says it took details of Miss Ds regular expenses and conducted a credit 
check. It says the information it obtained from these checks didnt cause it any concerns or 
require further investigation; and that it therefore completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks before going on to make a fair decision to arrange this lending.
Ive carefully considered the checks Zopa completed and the information it obtained from 
these checks; and having done so Im not persuaded its checks were proportionate in this 
instance. 
I say this because I consider the loan and interest repayable over four years represented a 
significant commitment for Miss D. The credit check Zopa completed showed Miss Ds total 
indebtedness at the time stood at around £12,400. She had a number of revolving credit 
accounts and had recently obtained two new lines of credit. I consider the increase in 
Miss Ds indebtedness in the months leading up to her application  £2,240 on a credit card 
and a £8,600 personal loan  was a cause for concern and Zopa needed to satisfy itself she 
wasnt becoming overdependent on credit.
I acknowledge that the purpose of this loan was for debt consolidation, but as our 
investigator has already explained, the total amount of this borrowing wouldnt consolidate all 
of Miss Ds existing debts  as a maximum around 30%. So, Miss D would still have needed 
to make payments towards the majority of her existing debt, as well as this new loan. And, 
given that the credit file check Zopa obtained suggested the loan taken around eight months 
prior had been used to consolidate a number of Miss Ds other credit commitments, I 
consider this ought to have raised concerns with Zopa that Miss D was looking to obtain 
further lending in such a short space of time for further debt consolidation.
So, I consider Zopa needed to obtain a thorough understanding of Miss Ds financial 
situation  by verifying her actual regular expenditure, as well as verifying her income and 
completing a credit check as it did  to ensure in the individual circumstances this lending 
was sustainably affordable for her over the full term 
Zopa could have verified the information in a number of ways. Miss D has provided our 
service with her bank statements covering the period leading up to this loan. In the absence 
of any other information, Ive considered these statements to obtain an understanding of 
Miss Ds financial circumstances around the time of this lending. 
Miss Ds income is £1,570 averaged out across the three months leading up to this loan, 
less than she declared and that Zopa took into account in its affordability calculations. 
Miss Ds income is significantly less in one of the months and does fluctuate across each of 
the months; and in any event it is a relatively modest income, given her total outstanding and 
available borrowing. 
Miss Ds expenditure is relatively consistent across the three months leading up to this loan. 
I can see a payment for rent of around £650, however I note Miss D receives a regular credit 
from another party for around £200 each month referenced as rent, suggesting her share is 
around £450; which corresponds with the information she declared to Zopa. Ive also seen 
regular payments for travel, subscription services and a payment to a union, as well as 
payments towards her credit commitments. Averaged out across the three months Miss Ds 
non-discretionary expenditure and payments towards credit commitments total around 
£1,300, however, this doesnt take into account any costs for food. 
This means Miss D was already running her finances to a pretty tight budget and didnt have 
as much disposable income as Zopa appears to have calculated within its checks; so I 
consider it is fair to say that at this level of disposable income, an income shock (such as the 
one Ive detailed above) or an unexpected big expense would likely disrupt Miss Ds ability to 
cover all her commitments. 
Zopa appears to have calculated Miss Ds payments to her credit commitments to be around 
£540 per month. However, this loan was to consolidate existing debt, and while it wouldnt 
consolidate all of Miss Ds debts, the loan was sufficient to consolidate her credit card and mail order accounts, leaving the loan shed taken around eight months prior to this 
application. Ive not seen that Zopa explored which debts Miss D intended to consolidate 
with the loan she was applying for. But having reviewed Miss Ds statements in the days that 
followed the loan being approved, Ive seen she did use most of the funds to repay what 
appears to be her credit card and mail order accounts. I think it more likely than not that 
Miss D would have told Zopa this is what she intended to do if it had asked. So, Miss Ds 
total monthly credit repayment would have been lowered to around £460, a saving of around 
£80 compared to her total repayments at the time of application. However, as Miss D was 
managing her finances to such a tight budget, Im not persuaded this saving would have 
benefitted Miss D as much as Zopa believed would have been the case.
I say this because Zopas calculations dont appear to have taken account of Miss Ds 
£1,290 overdraft facility, which it was aware of from the credit check it completed. Miss Ds 
statements show that her bank account is in an overdraft position for a significant period of 
time each month. In fact, across May and July 2018, two of the three months leading up to 
this loan, Miss Ds balance didnt ever enter a credit position. And in June 2018 it only did so 
as her rent payment was made later than usual.
In May 2018 Miss Ds balance went above its agreed overdraft limit for a number of days. 
And across all three months the use generally followed the same pattern, once Miss Ds 
salary was credited and all bills were paid, the balance returned close to the overdraft limit, 
and stayed at that level until Miss Ds salary was credited. So, its reasonable to say Miss D 
spent most of the time between salary credits overdrawn on her current account, often to its 
full extent. Im consider this shows she was reliant on her overdraft to cover all of her regular 
monthly expenditure, including non-discretionary expenses and her existing credit 
commitments. 
While I accept this loan was to consolidation a proportion of Miss Ds existing credit and 
would clear certain accounts as Ive found above; the monthly saving Zopa calculated of 
around £80 was insufficient to have stopped Miss Ds reliance on her overdraft facility to 
maintain her regular expenses and credit commitments over the term of the loan she was 
applying for. 
Ive seen from the credit check that within days of the previous loan being approved Miss D 
repaid and closed four credit card accounts and a loan account. So, I think that Miss Ds 
recent attempt to better manage her finances using debt consolidation hadnt worked 
because she remained reliant on the overdraft facility. And, because Miss D was coming to 
Zopa to secure £4,000 to consolidate further debts within eight months of consolidating 
previous lending; and within six months of getting a credit card account which, at the time of 
this application, had an outstanding balance of £2,240 (around 80% of its available limit).
As Miss Ds pattern of increased indebtedness suggests to me that she was relying on credit 
to meet her existing credit commitments, I consider its fair to say she was in some financial 
difficulty. Whilst I accept Zopas loan would give Miss D some relief, for the reasons that Ive 
explained, I dont think it went far enough that I can reasonably say Miss D was left in a 
financial position where she could be expected to sustainably repay the new commitment. 
It therefore follows that Im satisfied Zopa acted unfairly by arranging this loan for Miss D, 
and it needs to take action in resolution of this complaint.
Both Miss D and Zopa responded to my provisional decision, accepting the findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as both parties are accepting of my provisional findings and have 
provided no further evidence for my consideration, I see no reason to depart from them. 
So, in summary I consider Zopa acted unfairly when arranging this loan for Miss D. I say this 
because:
Zopa didnt complete proportionate checks based on the information it had available 
to it about Miss Ds individual financial circumstances;
Had it completed proportionate checks I consider it ought reasonably to have 
identified Miss D was already using borrowing to repay existing credit commitments; 
and that a recent consolidation to help Miss D better manage her finances hadnt 
worked; and
Even by using this loan for its intended purpose, to further consolidate debt, I cant 
reasonably be satisfied that Miss D would be in a position where she would be able 
to sustainably meet the commitment.
Putting things right
As Miss D has had the use of the capital amount advanced, I consider its fair and 
reasonable that she repays this amount. But Miss D has paid interest and charges on a loan 
that shouldnt have been provided. So, I think Miss D has lost out and Plata Finance Limited 
trading as Zopa needs to take action to put things right. 
Plata Finance Limited trading as Zopa has confirmed this debt has been sold to a third party, 
and that the current level of repayments received dont cover the capital amount advanced. 
So, Plata Finance Limited trading as Zopa needs to ensure the following action is taken by 
liaising with the third party or buying back the debt:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. Any 
payments made by Miss D should then be deducted from the new starting balance;
If this results in a capital balance remaining outstanding, then Plata Finance Limited 
trading as Zopa should attempt to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with 
Miss D;
After all adjustments have been made and once there is no outstanding balance, 
Plata Finance Limited trading as Zopa need to remove any negative information 
recorded on Miss Ds credit file as a result of this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Plata Finance Limited trading as Zopa to deduct tax from 
this interest. Plata Finance Limited trading as Zopa should give Miss D a certificate showing 
how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold Miss Ds complaint about Plata Finance Limited trading as 
Zopa and I direct it to resolve this complaint as detailed above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman