DRN-2905293
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as N complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC (RBS) blocked 
and closed its account, and recalled a Bounce Back Loan (BBL) it had been granted.
N is represented by one of its directors, Mr G.
What happened
Mr G has brought two complaints to our service about RBSs actions. This decision focuses 
solely on his complaint on behalf of N. Ill address Mr Gs other complaint in a separate 
decision.
In May 2020, N applied for a Bounce Back Loan in the sum of £15,000. The loan was 
granted and paid to Ns account shortly after. In June 2020, RBS blocked Ns account, while 
it carried out a review. When Mr G noticed he couldnt access Ns account, he called RBS to 
find out what had happened. But Mr G says nobody could tell him, despite complaining to 
numerous people.
On 1 September 2020, RBS issued a letter saying it would no longer provide banking 
facilities to N. It gave N 60 days notice of the closure and recommended N repay the BBL 
when the account was closed.
On 7 January 2021, RBS issued N with a formal demand for repayment of the BBL. It said 
an event of default had occurred and that repayment of the full balance was due 
immediately. It had offset Ns account balance of £7,117 against the debt, meaning the 
amount due was £7,883.
RBS issued a number of letters in response to Ns complaint. In them, it said the account 
block was necessary to enable it to complete various checks. It said it couldnt give more 
detail, but that it had determined the BBL of £15,000 shouldnt have been granted, which is 
why it had recalled the loan and repaid part of the debt using funds in Ns account.
RBS also said it couldnt give any further detail about the account closure, but that it was 
satisfied it had acted in line with its terms of business when it did so. It said it had followed its 
internal procedures correctly, that it wasnt willing to reconsider its decision, and that it was 
acting in accordance with its legal and regulatory obligations.
Mr G remained unhappy, so he brought Ns complaint to our service. He wanted an 
explanation of what had happened, access to Ns account, re-instatement of the BBL, 
compensation, and an apology.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ns complaint. She said RBS was entitled to block Ns account 
while it carried out a review, and that it had complied with the terms and conditions of Ns 
account when it did so.
She said RBS was entitled to close Ns account in the manner it did, and that it didnt have to 
explain the reasons for its decision. Finally, she said RBS had acted reasonably in recalling 
the BBL and using funds in Ns account to settle part of the balance.
Mr G didnt agree, so the complaint has come to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers 
accounts while they carry out a review. 
So, in order to make an award in favour of N, I would need to be satisfied that RBS acted 
unfairly or took actions it wasnt entitled to take. Having looked at the evidence, Im satisfied 
RBS acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked Ns account. And 
that it was entitled to do so under the account terms and conditions that governed the 
relationship between RBS and N.
I appreciate Mr G is frustrated that RBS hasnt explained its reasons in full, and that he feels 
strongly about Ns complaint. But, under the terms and conditions of the account, RBS 
doesnt have to give a reason for doing so. So, I cant say it did anything wrong by not giving 
N this information when it complained. And, having investigated RBSs rationale myself, Im 
satisfied it was entitled to block the account and complete the investigation in the manner it 
did. And Ive seen no evidence to suggest it treated N unfairly.
Account closure
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer, so long it does so in a way that 
complies with the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
The terms and conditions of Ns account  which both RBS and N had to comply with  say 
that RBS could close the account by giving N 60 days notice. 
Having considered the evidence Ive been provided, Im satisfied RBS acted in accordance 
with its terms and conditions when it closed Ns account. It gave N 60 days notice of the 
closure, as per the terms and conditions, and while I understand Mr Gs frustration that RBS 
wont explain the rationale for its decision, it isnt obliged to do so.  So, I dont think I can 
reasonably say RBS did anything wrong by closing Ns account in the manner it did.
Bounce Back Loan
RBS made it clear that it would be recalling Ns BBL, and advised N to repay the same when 
Ns account was closed. It issued a formal letter of demand on 7 January 2021, in which it 
said an event of default had occurred which had led RBS to demand immediate repayment 
of the loan. It explained it had paid off part of the BBL using the balance of funds in Ns 
account, and confirmed the balance that remained payable.
I understand Mr G doesnt believe RBS was entitled to do so but, having reviewed the 
evidence both parties have submitted, Im satisfied that it was. The terms and conditions of 
the BBL set out the circumstances in which RBS can demand repayment of the loan, as well 
as the circumstances in which it can offset funds maintained in a current account against the outstanding balance. And Im satisfied RBS followed the correct procedure and acted in 
accordance with the terms of the BBL.
Again, I understand why Mr G wants to know the reasons behind RBSs decision. But the 
terms of the BBL dont oblige it to do so And, having thought about everything both parties 
have told me, I see no basis on which I could reasonably compel RBS to undo its actions, or 
explain itself further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman