DRN-4245146
The complaint
The estate of the late Mrs F has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1992.
The estate of Mrs F is being representing in making this complaint by her son, Mr F, so for 
ease, I will sometimes just be referring to Mr F in this decision.
What happened
Mrs F was sold the PPI in a branch meeting at the same time as arranging the mortgage. 
Although Mrs F was married and living with her husband, the mortgage was taken out just by 
her.
Mrs F first complained about the policy being mis-sold in 2017 but at that time Lloyds could 
not locate a PPI policy associated with the mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has very little paperwork available from the time of the sale. All it has been able to 
provide is the mortgage application form and the subsequent mortgage offer letter. I take Mr 
Fs point that Lloyds might have been able to provide more documents if it had located Mrs 
Fs policy at the first time of asking in 2017.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as it is here), inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
decision based on the evidence that we do have and what I consider is most likely to have 
happened.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs F could not recall having a PPI policy and had only made a complaint about it in 2017 at 
her husbands insistence. She said in the complaint form she sent to Lloyds at that time that 
she was not aware that she had taken out PPI. As such, she thought that it had been added 
without her knowledge or consent.
From what we know of Lloyds sales process at the time, the PPI would normally have been 
presented as optional and I havent seen anything that would lead me to conclude that 
something different happened in this particular case.
I have no doubt that Mrs F provided her genuine recollection of events in 2017. But the sale 
was a long time ago and so its possible that Mrs Fs memory had faded.
For his part, Mr Fs personal view is that Lloyds probably suggested that the PPI would 
assist with the mortgage being approved. But this rather goes against his mothers account 
that she wasnt aware of the policy at all. And again, I havent seen anything that would lead 
me to that conclusion.
Based on the available evidence, I consider it more likely than not that Mrs F would have 
known that she had a choice about taking out the policy. It seems to me that she probably 
decided to buy it, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she could no longer remember 
doing so.
This was an advised sale. Which means that, in recommending the policy to Mrs F, Lloyds 
needed to ensure that it met her needs. And from what I know of her circumstances at the 
time, the policy was suitable for her.
Mrs F would have received some sick pay from her job. But the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mrs F would have received full pay 
for.
Mrs F had £3,000 in savings at the time. But having the policy would have allowed her to 
retain any savings or use them to cover other outgoings.
Her husband was working full time and was also receiving some pension income. Ive 
thought very carefully about this point, particularly as Mrs F was able to get the mortgage 
based solely on her income. However, on balance, Im not persuaded that her husbands 
income made the policy unsuitable. It could still have provided a useful benefit at what would 
have been a difficult time.
Mr F says the policy didnt meet his mothers needs because she had taken out an 
endowment mortgage. The policy benefit was £254.13 per month. Ive seen from the offer 
letter that the mortgage repayments were expected to be £201.38. So, in the event of a 
successful claim, the policy would have done what it was designed to and covered the 
mortgage repayments.
Mr F also says that a policy that only pays out for 12 months is not value for money. But the 
policy would pay out a maximum of 12 months per claim and it was possible to make 
multiple claims during the life of the PPI. 
Lloyds also had to provide Mrs F with sufficient information for her to make an informed 
choice about whether the policy was right for her. That duty only included providing 
information about the PPI it was offering. It did not have to signpost her to other products 
available on the open market.
I think that Mrs F would have known something about the policy  that it would cover the 
mortgage repayments if she was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment 
 because I doubt shed have bought the PPI without knowing anything at all about it. 
Its possible that Lloyds didnt provide as much information as it should have about the 
policy, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs F wasnt affected by any of 
those things. For example, she didnt have a pre-existing medical condition that would have 
been excluded under the policy terms. As I consider that Mrs F had an interest in the policy 
and decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused her to change 
her mind. So, she was no worse off as a result of anything Lloyds may have done wrong.
This means that Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to the estate of 
Mrs F. But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI because:When the policy was sold, Lloyds expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs F about that. 
Because it didnt tell her, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that the PPI was not mis-sold  Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to the estate of Mrs F.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to the estate of Mrs F any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. As it has already paid this, I 
do not require it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs F 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman