DRN-2929876
The complaint
Mr E complains My Finance Club Limited (MFCL) didnt carry out sufficient affordability 
checks before it granted a loan. He also says that MFCL didnt help him when he told it 
about his financial difficulties he was having. 
  
What happened
Mr E took one loan from MFCL in February 2021, he borrowed £300 and he was due to 
make one payment to MFCL of £372 on 3 March 2021. Mr E has had payment difficulties 
and MFCL has confirmed that to date, no payments have been received.
  
Our adjudicator reviewed the case, and she didnt think it was wrong for MFCL to have 
granted the loan. But she didnt think MFCL did all it couldve done when it found about 
Mr Es difficulties.
This is because MFCL was given evidence in the form of bank statements to suggest that Mr 
E was spending significant amounts on gambling websites so likely had long term financial 
difficulties. So, in her view MFCL needed to stop interest fees and charges on the account 
from 22 March 2020.  She also recommended that MFCL and Mr E should come to a 
suitable payment plan.
 
Mr E appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings. 
  
MFCL agreed with the outcome the adjudicator reached about the lending decision. But it 
disagreed with the adjudicators assessment about how it shouldve assisted Mr E after it 
received the bank statements. In summary, it said;
Mr E hasnt made any repayments towards his loans
the bank statements Mr E provided, in MFCLs view, dont show financial difficulties
Mr E has elected to spend his money on betting websites, and this is a legal activity 
in the UK
Mr E has deceived MFCL, so he doesnt have to repay his loan
MFCL is entitled to collect the full outstanding balance because it has a legally 
binding contract 
MFCL wants to know, what steps if any, Mr E has taken to control his non-essential 
spending
The interest MFCL charged is set out in the credit agreement.
In response to letting MFCL know the case as being prepared for a decision, it made some 
additional points (in addition to the points above) for the ombudsman to consider;
Mr E provided bank statements that he said werent available
MFCL says this service should obtain further and up to date bank statements to see 
whether his financial situation remained the same.
 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MFCL had to assess the lending to check if Mr E could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. MFCLs checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Es income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MFCL should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr E. These factors include:
Mr E having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr E having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr E coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr E.
MFCL was required to establish whether Mr E could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr E was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (the industry regulatory) in the Consumer Credit
Sourcebook (CONC) states payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Es complaint.
Mr E, after the case was passed to be considered by an ombudsman, raised some further 
complaint points about the rudeness of staff and how it chased him for payment via text 
message when MFCL told him it wouldnt contact him any further as the complaint was with 
this service. Mr E says this impacted his ongoing health problems. 
Mr E has shown he received an email from MFCL on 30 March. And this does show, that 
MFCL agreed to deal with this service, and it he wouldnt hear from them for either 3 months or until an outcome has been reached. The text message sent to Mr E was sent after the 
expiry of the 3 months pause.   
In terms of repayment, I understand Mr Es frustration about this, but ultimately, a loan has 
been granted with an outstanding balance that needs to be repaid and even if the decision is 
accepted, given no repayments have yet been made, Mr E will still have a balance to pay 
MFCL. 
But, I understand MFCL has suspended contact for a further three months since July, which 
I consider to be reasonable. So, I make no award against MFCL for chasing Mr E for the 
debt. 
In addition, MFCL asked to discuss this case with an ombudsman before issuing the final 
decision. An adjudicator emailed MFCL to explain that an ombudsman will review the case 
and that ombudsman dont generally speak to either lenders or consumers before issuing a 
decision. MFCL didnt respond to the email. 
Ive considered the request to discuss this with MFCL, but Im satisfied in this case, that it 
has had an opportunity to put its case (and supply any relevant documentation or evidence) 
to this service. In my view, I have sufficient information, so Ive proceeded to issue my final 
decision. 
Irresponsible lending 
I agree, with the adjudicator about this element of the case, the checks MFCL carried out 
were proportionate and highlighted that Mr E was likely to be able to afford the payment he 
was committed to repaying. 
When Mr E applied for this loan, MFCL asked him to verify his income, and he provided a 
payslip that shows he was earning £1,621.26. So, Im satisfied that MFCL had a fairly 
accurate idea of Mr Es actual monthly income. 
A credit check was also carried out, Ive reviewed the results and, in my view, there isnt 
anything contained within it that in my view wouldve prompted MFCL to have either carried 
out further more in-depth checks (such as asking for bank statements) or to have 
automatically declined the application. 
Mr E also told MFCL that his monthly outgoings came to £921, which (at least in terms of 
credit commitments) was backed up by the data MFCL obtained from the credit report. 
Based on the income and expenditure information the loan repayments looked affordable to 
Mr E.  
Given it was still quite early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for MFCL 
to have relied on the information Mr E provided and the income and expenditure figures 
showed that Mr E had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayment he was 
committed to making. So, Im not upholding Mr Es complaint about the lending decision. To 
be clear, in my view, MFCL didnt make an error when it provided the loan.  
Forbearance 
The adjudicator upheld this part of the complaint. She thought, based on the content of Mr 
Es bank statements that MFCL received on 22 March 2021, this ought to have altered it to 
Mr E having wider financial difficulties. I agree with this assessment and I've explained why 
below. Ive looked carefully at the email communication between Mr E and MFCL and some of this 
is commented on below, but this isnt an exhaustive commentary of everything that has 
happened. 
On 1 March (so before Mr Es contractual repayment became date) he contacted MFCL to 
ask for the payment to be split in two, and to have the interest frozen. So fairly early on, I 
think MFCL had at least some indication that may not all have been well with Mr E  but at 
this point there wasnt sufficient information to suggest Mr E was in financial difficulties. 
The payment due on 3 March 2021 wasnt made but Mr E was aware of this as he contacted 
MFCL to explain the payment would be made on 5 March. Payment wasnt made on the new 
date that Mr E proposed. 
It wasnt until 8 March 2021 that Mr E told MFCL that due to the pandemic his hours had 
been reduced. At this point, I think MFCL ought to have reasonably been on notice that Mr E 
may have been having financial problems. 
Mr E then complained to MFCL on 22 March 2021, with a resolution letter being provided to 
Mr E on 23 March 2021. As part of this process, Mr E provided copies of his bank 
statements, which show, during the statement period Mr E spent significant amounts of 
money towards betting websites. 
At this point (and I do disagree with MFCL here) it needed to take action to treat Mr E with 
forbearance as it was required to do. I think it was reasonably clear that Mr E was having 
problems repaying his loan, given where he was spending this money and the fact that 
nearly three weeks after taking the loan he hadnt made a payment. 
In this decision, Im not making a finding on the rights or wrongs of spending the money on 
betting sites. But what is clear, is that knowing what Mr E was doing it was unlikely he was 
going to be in a position to repay the loan sustainably. And so, the obligation was on MFCL 
to react to this information  which in my view it didnt do. 
I can see that Mr E spent around £1,100 in February 2021 on betting websites. MFCL says 
this is frivolous expenditure and non-essential. But what is clear, is that Mr E spent the 
majority of his income on these sites, and he still had on top of this his credit commitments 
(which MFCL knew about from the credit checks) as well as his other living costs  that 
needed to be paid. 
When the statements were provided MFCL ought to have reasonably concluded that Mr E 
was likely to be in a position that hed struggle to repay what he borrowed. Put simply, Mr Es 
outgoings were already far in excess of his income before making the loan repayments.   
And MFCLs obligation to treat Mr E fairly can be found in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook. 
There are a number of actions that it couldve taken to assist Mr E. Once of those, was 
freezing interest, fees and charges. The effect of this, wouldve been that Mr Es balance 
wouldnt have continued to increase. Which I think, in the circumstances of this case is fair, 
considering that Mr E had already struggled to make the payment. It isnt clear to me, how 
further increasing Mr Es indebtedness is treating him with forbearance and due 
consideration.
Ive taken on board what MFCL says about Mr E being evasive in providing bank 
statements. MFCL says that Mr E didnt want to provide them on a call on 8 March. This was 
clearly not the case (the statements were available), but this is why the case hasnt been 
upheld any earlier. Mr E didnt provide the statements earlier so it wouldnt be reasonable to 
have expected MFCL to be fully aware of Mr Es position at an earlier date. However, once the statements were provided, MFCL needed to act accordingly and treat him with 
forbearance, which in view, it hasnt done. 
MFCL also says that Mr E has elected to spend money on such sites, and therefore could 
afford the loan repayments. But the fact is Mr E did spend money on such sites and this 
needed to be taken into account by MFCL especially, when as Ive said above, it was highly 
likely he wasnt in a position to afford the payment he was committed to making. 
Overall, Im upholding Mr Es complaint in part because Mr E provided MFCL evidence to 
show, that it was likely he was having financial difficulties from 22 March 2020. I appreciate 
that MFCL doesnt agree with this approach and it thinks that the betting transactions are 
non-essential spending. But Mr E was spending his money on such sites, and so, MFCL 
needed to react to this information, which it didnt do.  Ive therefore outlined below what 
MFCL needs to do in order to put things right for Mr E. 
  
Putting things right
I want to be clear, that Ive not upheld the complaint about irresponsible lending. But I do 
think MFCL needed to treat Mr E with more forbearance than it did because it had evidence 
to show that Mr E was likely having longer term financial difficulties.
What I am not asking MFCL to do is to remove all the interest that is outstanding and 
therefore only accept the principal amount lent. Instead, what I am asking is that any 
interest, fees or changes added from 22 March 2021 be removed from the outstanding 
balance.
Anything charged before that date, is in my view is been fairly applied because MFCL didnt 
have enough information at the time to suggest Mr E was likely having ongoing financial 
needs rather than just a temporary problem.
 
When after MFCL carries out the redress below, Mr E will still have an outstanding balance 
to pay, given that MFCL has told us no payments have yet been made towards the loan. Ive 
outlined below what MFCL needs to do to put things right for Mr E. To put things right;
 
MFCL needs to rework the current outstanding balance to remove any interest, fees 
and charges added to the balance from 22 March 2021 and 
To try and agree a repayment plan with Mr E in order to repay what is owed.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Es complaint in part and I direct My 
Financial Club Limited should do as I have outlined above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman