DRN-3113537
The complaint
Mr W complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has failed to provide him with timely 
answers to his questions about the income tax treatment of a compensatory payment he 
received. As a result he says that he has missed the deadline to revise his tax return for the 
year 2018-19 and will now face a lengthy process to receive a refund of tax he overpaid at 
that time.
What happened
In April 2018 Aviva wrote to Mr W to inform him that it had identified an error that had been 
made when a pension plan was terminated in February 2010. It told him that the amount he 
had been paid was less than it should have been. It paid him the shortfall by cheque. Mr W 
further discussed the error with Aviva and in June 2018 Aviva sent Mr W an additional 
cheque to cover the investment returns he might have received on the shortfall payment had 
it been received in 2010. It also paid Mr W £200 for the trouble and upset hed been caused.
In the original letter that Aviva sent to Mr W it told him that payments of this nature, from a 
pension contract that is no longer in force, might attract an income tax charge. But it 
reassured Mr W that it had agreed with HMRC that it would meet any income tax that might 
be due. It told Mr W he needed to take no further action in that regard, and that he should 
not include the payment on his annual self-assessment tax return.
In January 2020, Mr W realised that he had overlooked that instruction when he had 
previously completed his tax return for the years 2018-19 and wrote to Aviva to clarify the 
correct treatment of the payment. Mr W noted that the information about the tax treatment of 
the compensation had been omitted when Aviva agreed the additional compensation. He 
also said that he was a higher rate taxpayer for that period so sought guidance from Aviva 
whether he, or it, would be responsible for the additional income tax that would be due.
Aviva did not deal with Mr Ws letter as quickly as it would have wanted. Despite him chasing 
a response on a number of occasions, and him raising a formal complaint in August 2020, 
Aviva didnt provide its response to Mr W until December 2020. In that letter it explained that 
it had assumed him to be a basic rate taxpayer and made a payment to HMRC on that basis. 
It confirmed that it would be willing to reconsider the tax payment once Mr W had finalised 
his tax affairs. It paid Mr W £100 for the trouble and upset the delays had caused to him.
But his tax position was information that Mr W had already sent to Aviva. He sent a redacted 
copy of his 2018-19 tax calculation to Aviva in September 2020. And he noted that he would 
need to file a revised tax return. But he needed Avivas guidance before doing so. Given 
Avivas lack of progress in resolving this matter, Mr W brought his complaint to us.
Mr Ws complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that Aviva had 
provided clear directions to Mr W that he didnt need to include the compensation on his tax 
return. So he didnt think that Aviva should be held responsible for any problems that 
inclusion had caused. But the investigator did agree that Mr W had been caused some 
inconvenience due to the delayed response from Aviva and the corresponding problems he 
will now face in amending his tax return. So the investigator asked Aviva to pay Mr W an 
additional sum of £100 in compensation.
Mr W didnt agree with that assessment. He thought it had been prudent to include the 
compensation on his tax return. And Avivas failures to respond to his questions meant that it 
would now be a prolonged process to get his tax affairs corrected. He didnt think £100 was 
fair compensation for the additional administrative burden he now faced.
Aviva also didnt agree with the assessment. It noted that it had already paid some 
compensation to Mr W for its delayed responses to his questions. It didnt think it was 
reasonable to be asked to pay anything further.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr W and by Aviva. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I think a reasonable starting point for my consideration of this complaint is the compensation 
that Aviva paid to Mr W in 2018. Mr W isnt complaining about the issues that led to the 
compensation being paid, or that he needed to ask Aviva to reconsider the investment 
returns he had lost. And so I wont deal with those matters here. But the payment of that 
compensation, and the income tax consequences it created, are the starting point of the 
issues that I am being asked to consider here.
The payment that Aviva made to Mr W was in relation to a pension policy that had ended. So 
I think Aviva was right to make Mr W aware that it making a payment of this nature might 
lead to him incurring an income tax liability. And since Aviva accepted that it had made the 
initial mistake resulting in the payment shortfall in 2010, it seems entirely right to me that 
Aviva should ensure that Mr W wasnt disadvantaged by needing to pay any income tax that 
might become due.
The letter that Aviva initially sent to Mr W was two pages long. In brief, on the first page 
Aviva apologised for the error and set out the compensation it would pay to Mr W. On the 
second page was a section titled What about tax?. I repeat the content of that section in full 
below. It said;There may be a tax charge for any additional payments from a pension contract which 
is no longer in force. However we have agreed with HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) 
that we will settle the charge on this payment, so there is no tax for you to pay. 
Therefore you do not need to take any further action. 
If you are a non-taxpayer you should not attempt to reclaim this tax back from HMRC. 
You should also not include this amount on your annual self-assessment tax return.
As I said earlier there was then some further correspondence between Aviva and Mr W 
about the loss of investment returns on the underpayment. And at the conclusion of those 
discussions Aviva agreed to pay some additional compensation to Mr W. But, as Mr W has 
pointed out, that letter didnt make any mention of the tax treatment of the additional 
compensation.
Both the compensation payments that Mr W received were made in the 2018-19 tax year. So 
it was around a year later (in May 2019) that Mr W completed the corresponding 
self-assessment return. It is understandable that, given the time that had elapsed, he had 
forgotten about Avivas instruction that the compensation shouldnt be included on the tax 
return. But I dont think that error was the fault of Aviva  it had provided a clear instruction to 
Mr W about how the payments should be treated for income tax purposes.
In January 2020 Mr W became concerned that he might have recorded the compensation 
payments incorrectly on his tax return. So he wrote to Aviva to seek its guidance on what he 
had done. It is the lack of a timely response to that letter, and the subsequent chasing emails 
and phone calls, that form the subject of this complaint.
Aviva has accepted it should have responded in a timelier manner. And it has paid Mr W 
£100 for the trouble and upset he has been caused. But, like our investigator, I dont think 
that compensation is enough.
Avivas lack of a timely response denied Mr W the opportunity to revise his self-assessment 
tax return through an automated process. I understand that Mr W will still be able to make 
any necessary changes, but that process might be more protracted and require him to write 
to HMRC setting out his reasoning. But ultimately he will be able to correct any incorrect 
information he provided in his 2018-19 tax return providing that is done within the next year. 
And so he should be able to recover any income tax he has paid in error due to him 
including the compensation payment on his tax return.
As part of his complaint discussions with Aviva, the firm acknowledged that it was unaware 
that Mr W was a higher rate taxpayer. So it accepted that the payment it had made to HMRC 
on Mr Ws behalf was only in respect of basic rate tax. But I can see that Aviva has agreed it 
is responsible for the additional tax that is due, and I trust that, if it hasnt already, it will make 
the necessary arrangements to make that payment to HMRC.
Ultimately I dont think that Aviva was responsible for the incorrect information Mr W 
recorded on his tax return. It had given him clear guidance that the compensation shouldnt 
be included, and I cant see that Mr W sought further information from Aviva before his tax 
return was first submitted. But, when he identified the error, Avivas failure to respond to his 
request for assistance means that Mr Ws correction of that error will be a more protracted 
process.
As I said above, Aviva has paid Mr W £100 for the trouble and upset he was caused. I think 
that an additional payment of £100 (making a total of £200) is warranted to reflect the 
inconvenience that has been caused to Mr W by needing to deal with the changes to his tax 
return through written correspondence rather than via the online system.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint. I direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
to pay him an additional £100 to reflect the inconvenience he has been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman