DRN-4182821
The complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) gave him unsuitable advice to 
invest in a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan. 
Mr H is represented in his complaint by a Complaints Management Company (CMC). But Ill 
only refer to him in my decision.
The FSAVC plan was sold by a business which is now part of Aviva. Therefore it is 
responsible for the complaint. 
What happened
Aviva advised Mr H to start an FSAVC plan in July 1998. At the time of the advice, Mr H was 
38 years old and employed. And had been a member of his employers Occupational 
Pension Scheme (OPS) since September 1996. His OPS had a normal retirement age of 60.
At the time of the advice, Avivas representative was a tied adviser. After May 1996, tied 
advisers were expected to meet the requirements of Regulatory Update 2020 (RU20), which 
codified the procedures it expected product providers to follow in future sales. It said that 
before selling an FSAVC tied advisers should:
Draw the consumer's attention to the in-house alternative
Discuss the generic differences between the two routes
Direct the consumer to his employer or the OPS for more information on the in-house 
option
Aviva gave Mr H further advice in 1999 which led to him increasing his monthly contribution 
into his FSAVC plan. 
Mr H said he first became aware he might have a cause for complaint when he saw his 
CMCs advert in 2021. 
Mr H complained to Aviva in August 2022, through his CMC. about the sale of the FSAVC.
Aviva issued its final response to the complaint in October 2022. It felt that its representative 
had recommended a suitable product for Mr H. And that he had fulfilled his requirement of 
referring Mr H to his employer for information about the alternative AVC scheme. It also felt 
the representative had highlighted the differences between the in house AVC scheme and 
the FSAVC. And that the charges may differ. So it didnt think itd done anything wrong. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr H brought his complaint to this service. 
Aviva didnt consider the complaint had been brought in time. It felt that Mr H ought 
reasonably to have become aware that he had a cause for complaint since 1999 when he 
signed a document which explained that charges on in-house AVCs could be lower than on 
an FSAVC. So our investigator first considered whether this service could consider the 
merits of the complaint. 
Our investigator noted that the complaint had been brought more than six years after the 
event complained of. But didnt feel that the document Mr H had signed in 1999 should have 
made him aware that he had cause for complaint. She felt that our rules allowed us to 
consider the merits of this complaint. 
Our investigator acknowledged that Aviva still felt that the complaint was out of our 
jurisdiction. But said that she would consider the merits of the complaint. She said that if 
either Aviva or Mr H still disagreed with her view on either jurisdiction or merits, the 
complaint would be referred to an ombudsman. 
Our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. She felt that if Avivas 
representative had given Mr H all of the required information at the start, he wouldve been 
likely to have chosen the in-house AVC option. She felt this was because it offered him 
substantially the same product as the FSAVC at a probable lower cost. Therefore she felt 
that the advice to start the FSAVC had been unsuitable. She also felt that if the FSAVC 
hadnt been sold in 1998, there wouldnt have been a contribution increase in 1999.
To put things right, our investigator recommended that Aviva should undertake a redress 
calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC review guidance.
Aviva still felt that the complaint was out of this services jurisdiction. It also made the 
following points: 
- At the time of the advice, tied advisers shouldve known whether in-house options 
were available. They didnt have to investigate whether the in-house options were 
better than the FSAVC, but they did have to mention the generic benefits of them. 
Aviva felt that the requirements covered under RU20 had been included within the 
documentation provided.
- It felt that the brochure that had been given to Mr H during the first sale - Improving 
your retirement benefits  Its your choice  clearly set out the options available to Mr 
H. It felt that his signature confirmed that he was referred to his OPS for full details.
- Aviva also said that although there was limited documentation available from the 
initial sale, the 1999 sale had included a full explanation of the generic benefits of all 
three options. And had confirmed that the in-house AVC would likely have lower 
charges, as well as referring Mr H to his OPS. It said the fact this document was 
signed for clearly demonstrated it had been provided and discussed. So it felt that 
this had covered a tied advisers obligations. And that as it was a continuation of 
advice from the initial recommendation, Mr H wouldve had reason for complaint if he 
hadnt up until then been aware of this. This was why Aviva felt the complaint was 
outside FOS jurisdiction.
- Aviva also said that even if the FSAVC had higher charges, that wouldnt 
demonstrate that the product had been mis-sold or was unsuitable. It said that its 
representative pointed out the options and confirmed that the in-house AVC was 
likely to be cheaper, but that it was then up to Mr H to decide.
Aviva confirmed to this service that it had no record that Mr Hs plan was part of the FSAVC 
review.
This service asked for Mr H to comment on Avivas points. Mr H made the following points through his CMC: 
- Aviva said that Mr Hs complaint about the 1998 advice was that he was unaware of 
the in-house options until the second sale in 1999. But that was only one part of his 
complaint. He felt that the advice wasnt suitable. 
- Avivas adviser wouldve had a better than normal understanding of the structure and 
charges of the in-house AVC scheme offered by the OPS, as it had a close 
relationship with the scheme. So he felt that more detailed information shouldve 
been shared with him before he was asked to accept the recommendation and take 
the FSAVC contract or increase it.
- Although the CMC felt it was possible that Avivas representative did have a detailed 
discussion with Mr H about the merits of FSAVCs versus in-house AVCs, it said that 
without any further details about exactly what was said and what information was 
given to Mr H, it was difficult to know if the discussion was fair and balanced and 
covered important generic points of difference, such as the fact that the charges for 
in-house AVCs were likely to be lower. 
It also felt that the leaflet Aviva had provided to Mr H in 1999 had provided a generic outline 
of the three options available to him to increase his pension. And that although it wouldve 
drawn Mr Hs attention to the in-house scheme alternative and directed him to his employer 
for more information about the OPS, there was no evidence that the differences between the 
FSAVC and AVC routes had been discussed. It said it wouldve expected this discussion to 
have been documented in the suitability letter. But without that documentation, we had no 
way of knowing what had been discussed. The CMC didnt consider that the declaration on 
the leaflet signed by Mr H said anything about whether the options were discussed. And 
didnt feel that simply providing a leaflet was enough to meet the regulators requirements at 
the time.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a review.
I issued my provisional decision on 16 May 2023. It said:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold it. I dont agree with our investigator that Avivas 
representative didnt give Mr H all of the required information. And Ive found no evidence 
that the advice was unsuitable. I know my decision will be disappointing to Mr H. Ill explain 
my reasons for it.
I first considered whether this service can consider the merits of this complaint. 
Why we can look into this complaint
The rules say that I cant consider a complaint made more than six years after the event 
complained of, or if later, more than three years after the complainant was aware, or ought 
reasonably to have been aware, of their cause for complaint, unless the business consents. 
These rules are known as the Dispute Resolution rules (DISP). DISP 2.8.2R is the relevant 
rule here and can be found online in the Dispute Resolution section of the FCAs handbook. 
Here, Aviva doesnt consent to us considering this complaint.
Ive considered the evidence and having done so Im satisfied that this complaint has been 
made within the time limits. I consider that Mr H first had awareness there might be an issue after he saw an advert from his CMC in 2021. Ill explain why.
The advice which is being complained about took place in 1998. This is clearly over six 
years before the complaint was made. I must therefore consider whether its more than three 
years since Mr H became aware - or ought reasonably to have become aware - that he had 
cause for complaint. The rules dont say Mr H needed to be made aware that he could or 
should complain, only that he ought reasonably to have been aware that he might have 
cause to complain. This is not the same as saying that he became aware he could complain. 
But that he became aware he had a reason to complain.
Aviva feels that Mr H ought reasonably to have become aware that he might have a cause 
for complaint in 1999, when he signed a document which explained that charges on in-house 
AVCs could be lower than on an FSAVC plan. But I dont agree.
I say this because Mr H asked Aviva for advice in 1999. And he relied on that advice as 
being suitable for him or he wouldnt have agreed to it and increased his FSAVC 
contributions. So I cant reasonably say that Mr H ought reasonably to have been aware he 
had a cause for complaint when Aviva told him that charges on in-house AVCs could be 
lower than on an FSAVC plan, because if he had, he wouldnt have accepted the 
recommendation. 
Ive also considered the time between the advice in 1998 and 2021, when Mr H said he first 
became aware that he might have a cause for complaint, to see if there is anything else that 
makes me think it ought to have triggered Mr Hs awareness. But Ive not seen any evidence 
which leads me to think this is the case. Therefore Im satisfied that 2021 was the first time 
Mr H became aware he might have a cause for complaint. 
As Mr H raised his complaint within three years of this point, Im satisfied he made the 
complaint in time and that our service has the power to consider its merits.
I went on to consider the merits of the complaint. I agree with our investigator that its not 
surprising that some of the documentation is no longer available, as the advice was given 
over 20 years ago. I have been provided with a copy of an internal checklist that refers to the 
fact find. But its not been possible to provide a copy of the fact find or the Reasons why 
letter. So theres no documentary record of the discussion between Mr H and Avivas 
representative. Therefore I cant know for certain what was discussed. And have to base my 
decision on what I consider was more likely than not to have happened, based on the 
evidence available.
Was it suitable for the representative to recommend additional pension savings?
Mr H felt that the FSAVC plan was unsuitable for him. And that the adviser was negligent to 
recommend it to him. 
I first considered whether Mr H would benefit from additional pension savings of any type. 
Aviva said that as Mr H wouldnt have achieved the maximum service in his OPS by the 
normal retirement age of 60, it was satisfied that it had been appropriate for its 
representative to advise him to make extra contributions to help make up for the expected 
shortfall. Therefore it didnt consider that the advice was incorrect. 
Based on Mr Hs circumstances at the time of the advice, I agree that it was suitable for the 
representative to advise him to make additional contributions into his pension.
Were the regulatory requirements at the time of the advice met?I next considered if the evidence showed that the requirements of RU20 had been met at the 
time of the 1998 and 1999 advice. As I noted earlier, the requirements were to:
Draw the consumer's attention to the in-house alternative
Discuss the generic differences between the two routes
Direct the consumer to his employer or the OPS for more information on the in-house 
option
A tied adviser shouldve known if in-house options were available. But they didnt have to 
investigate whether the in-house options were better than the FSAVC. Instead, they had to 
mention the generic benefits of them, pointing out the three key areas as noted above - in 
particular, the effects the charges would have on the in-house AVC and FSAVC.
Neither Aviva nor Mr H has been able to provide this service with a copy of the Reasons 
why letter. So I need to decide based on the rest of the evidence provided whether its likely 
on the balance of probabilities that the adviser fairly discussed the likelihood that the 
charges under the in-house option would be lower than those on the FSAVC plan with Mr H.
From what Ive seen, Aviva did make Mr H aware that the in-house AVCs would likely offer 
lower charges than the FSAVC plan. Ill explain why.
Aviva felt that the booklet itd given Mr H in 1988 Improving your retirement benefits  Its 
your choice  clearly set out the available options. It felt that his signature confirmed that he 
was referred to his OPS for full details.
Ive been given a copy of a further document - Additional Voluntary Contributions: 
Information on the options available - which Mr H signed on 27 July 1998. This stated:
I confirm that I have read and understood the information contained in the booklet entitled 
Improving Your Retirement Benefits  Its Your Choice, issued by [former business name]. 
After comparing the options available, I have decided to proceed with my FSAVC Application 
to [former business name].
Ive also carefully reviewed the booklet Improving Your Retirement Benefits  Its Your 
Choice. 
The booklet included a section  How can I improve my benefits?  which stated that a 
member may be able to increase their benefits by making AVCs into a pension plan. And 
that this could be done either in-house or through an FSAVC plan. It then went on to 
compare the two methods, including the possibility of an in-house added years option.
Under a section called Its your choice, this booklet stated:
We recommend that you compare the benefits and options outlined within this booklet with 
those available under your employers in-house AVC scheme. 
It also said:
Your choice of product for increasing your retirement benefits will depend on which method 
best suits your personal needs and attitudes. In particular, you should consider portability, 
contribution flexibility, investment choice and fund performance. 
Mr H was given a further document in 1999, which he signed on 3 August 1999. This detailed the options available to Mr H to increase his pension. And explained why AVCs 
could be beneficial. It also covered in-house AVCs, buying added years, and FSAVC plans. 
In the FSAVC section, this document stated:
Charges can be higher than for Scheme AVCs .
And, under the in-house AVC section:
The charges on Scheme AVCs can be lower than on an FSAVC but this is not always the 
case.... 
The document also stated: 
Your pension from a Scheme AVC must be taken at the same time as those provided by 
your employers scheme.
And:
We strongly recommend that you obtain from your employers scheme administrator details 
of the benefits and charges applicable in respect of your employers own Additional 
Voluntary Contribution Scheme (Scheme AVC).
It also noted that some employers made extra payments to the main OPS on a members 
behalf if they were paying into their in-house AVC. And that this would normally make the in-
house AVC the better choice.
The document also explained the benefits of buying added years. It said:
You may be able to increase your pension by buying extra years of pensionable service. 
Buying Added Years provides additional benefits for you and your dependants based on how 
much you are earning when you retire.
Mr H signed the declaration included on this document which stated:
I have been given my own copy of this sheet and understand its content. I realise the 
importance of obtaining details of my Scheme AVC and its charges from my employers 
pension scheme and comparing them with my FSAVC option. I have had an opportunity to 
do this and as a result of my investigations, I have decided to proceed with my FSAVC 
application to [former business name].
From what Ive seen, Mr H was given a document in 1998, which he signed to indicate hed 
read and understood, in which the three options were covered. And in which Aviva 
recommended that he compared the benefits available under the FSAVC plan with those 
available in-house. 
While Ive found no evidence that the booklet made it clear that in-house AVCs would likely 
offer lower charges than the FSAVC, it did state that some employers might pay additional 
contributions into the OPS for members who were contributing to an in-house AVC. And that 
in this case, the in-house AVC would normally be the better choice.
The document Mr H was given in 1999 provided information about the added years that 
might be available under the OPS. And covered the potential for matching contributions to 
be paid by the employer connected to the OPS if the in-house AVC option was taken. The 
document also strongly recommended that Mr H got more information about the in-house 
options from his employers scheme. Mr H signed a further document on 3 August 1999 which confirmed hed received 
illustrations which showed potential projected benefits from his FSAVC plan at prospective 
retirement ages of both 55 and 60. 
Aviva said that the multiple illustrations at age 55  a different pension age from Mr Hs OPS 
 suggested that he was thinking about retiring earlier than his normal retirement age in his 
OPS. 
I acknowledge that Mr Hs CMC doesnt consider that the declaration on the booklet Mr H 
signed said anything about whether the options were discussed. And that it doesnt feel that 
simply providing a leaflet was enough to meet the regulators requirements at the time. 
Aviva said that any confirmation in the Reasons why letter relating to the discussions 
between the adviser and Mr H wouldve been on a similar generic basis to that included in 
the booklet Mr H signed for. And felt it wouldve been unlikely that the Reasons why letter 
wouldve been signed for. 
While I agree that the declaration doesnt state that the options were discussed, I consider 
that the evidence shows that its more likely than not that Aviva did discuss the options. I say 
this because Mr H signed more than one document, on separate dates, which stated that he 
understood the information the documents included. And that he had been given an 
opportunity to compare in-house charges with those of the FSAVC plan, but still decided to 
proceed with his FSAVC application.
I agree with Aviva that even if the FSAVC had higher charges, that doesnt in itself evidence 
that the product had been mis-sold or was unsuitable. Im satisfied that Avivas 
representative explained Mr Hs options and confirmed that the in-house AVC was likely to 
be cheaper. But after that it was up to Mr H to decide. 
Im also persuaded that, at the time of the advice, Mr H was potentially interested in 
accessing the benefits from his FSAVC plan before he reached age 60. I say this because 
illustrations have been produced for the FSAVC plan at both ages 60 and 55. Therefore I 
consider that Mr H had at least one reason to choose the FSAVC plan rather than the in-
house AVC plan. 
I acknowledge that both our investigator and Mr H dont consider that Aviva did enough to 
draw his attention to the alternatives to taking out an FSAVC. But Im persuaded that Mr H 
was provided with enough information. I say this because, even though Ive seen no 
documentary evidence that a discussion about the merits of FSAVCs versus in-house AVCs 
took place, Im persuaded that it was more likely than not that one took place in 1999, and 
possibly in 1998. And, while I agree that we cant know exactly what was said, I consider 
that, given the documentary evidence available, it was likely that all of the regulatory 
requirements were met at the time of the advice. 
In summary, Ive found evidence that persuades me that the generic benefits were 
discussed at the time of the original sale. But Ive found no documentary evidence that the 
likelihood of the in-house AVC having lower charges than the FSAVC plan was discussed at 
that point. But the 1999 evidence shows that a document was provided which clearly noted 
that the charges in the in-house AVC were likely to be cheaper. And Mr H still decided to 
increase his contributions into his FSAVC plan. So I cant fairly say that, if Mr H had been 
provided with clear information that the in-house AVC was likely to have lower charges than 
the FSAVC plan in 1998, he wouldnt have taken out the FSAVC, but wouldve chosen the 
in-house AVC. I say this because he was told in 1999 about the likely charge difference, and 
he still chose the FSAVC plan.I acknowledge that Mr H feels that as Avivas adviser probably had specialist knowledge 
about the structure and charges of the in-house AVC scheme, it shouldve shared more 
detailed information about it with him before he was asked to accept the recommendation 
and take the FSAVC contract or increase it. But I dont agree this was the tied advisers 
responsibility. 
I say this because tied advisers werent allowed to investigate whether the in-house options 
were better than the FSAVC plan. But they did have to meet the requirements of RU20. As I 
noted above, Im satisfied that the adviser did this. It wasnt his responsibility to compare the 
potential benefits from the three options and to inform Mr H which was best for him. Instead, 
he was required to provide enough information so that Mr H could make an informed 
decision for himself. Im satisfied that he did this.
Having reviewed the complaint, I havent found that Aviva did anything wrong. Therefore I 
dont intend to uphold it. 
Response to my provisional decision
Aviva didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
Mr H made the following comments through his CMC:
- He didnt think my interpretation of the regulation was in line with other Ombudsmen. 
And also felt that my view of what was likely to have happened based on the 
probabilities differed from my peers. He felt that it was important that this service was 
consistent in its decisions. He provided a number of references to other cases that he 
felt were similar, which had been upheld. 
- He felt that although it wasnt surprising that some of the documentation was no 
longer available, as the advice was over 20 years ago, it was a requirement to keep 
the documentation indefinitely.
- He repeated the regulatory requirements for a tied adviser at the time of the advice. 
And said that the production of the booklet Improving Your Retirement Benefits  Its 
Your Choice didnt comply with all three of those requirements. So he felt it followed 
that the tied adviser didnt comply with the regulatory requirements. He felt there was 
no evidence that the tied adviser had discussed the generic differences between the 
two routes. 
- He said that the Reasons Why letter was the ideal place to clearly document those 
discussions. But that as Aviva had failed to provide the documentary evidence, it 
couldnt prove it had complied with the regulatory requirements.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H feels that, as there is no documentary evidence of a discussion, it is wrong for me to 
make an assumption that there must have been one. I also acknowledge that Mr H 
considers that my decision is inconsistent with other decisions. But I dont agree. 
Ive based my decision on the specific details of this complaint, as have all of the other 
Ombudsmen who covered the complaints Mr H has referenced. Each complaint is assessed 
on its own merits. In any event, I could also reference decisions which have concluded that, despite there 
being no documentary evidence on file to confirm that the Avivas representative satisfied all 
of the regulations in place at the time, this doesnt necessarily mean the complaint should be 
upheld. Therefore I dont agree with Mr H that my decision is inconsistent with that of my 
peers. 
In my provisional decision, I noted that while I agreed that the declarations Mr H signed 
didnt state that the options had been discussed, I considered that the evidence showed that 
it was more likely than not that Avivas representative had discussed the options with him. 
Given Mr Hs response to my provisional decision, Ive also gone on to consider if my 
decision would change if my assumption changed. That is, if I assumed instead that Avivas 
representative didnt discuss the generic differences between the two routes with Mr H at the 
time.
If I felt that no discussion had taken place, I would then need to consider whether Mr H 
wouldve made a different decision at the time of the advice if Aviva had discussed the 
generic differences between the two routes with him. If he wouldve made a different 
decision, I would then uphold the complaint.
Having thought carefully about this scenario, I consider that if Aviva had held such a 
discussion, Mr H would still have decided to contribute to the FSAVC. I say this because, 
as I noted in my provisional decision, Aviva produced multiple illustrations at age 55. This 
was a different pension age from Mr Hs OPS. So Im persuaded that this suggested he was 
thinking about retiring earlier than his normal retirement age (NRA) in his OPS. 
Given that it appears that Mr H was at least considering retiring earlier than his OPS NRA, I 
think that, on balance, even if Aviva had discussed the generic differences between the two 
routes with Mr H, he wouldve still chosen the FSAVC option so that he had the potential to 
take those benefits at an earlier point than his OPS benefits. 
As no new information has come to light to change my opinion, I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman