DRN-3589783
The complaint
Mr E and Ms W complain that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) misled them with 
the wording of their Guaranteed Income Bond maturity letter.
What happened
Mr E and Ms W held a Guaranteed Income Bond (GIB) with NS&I which fell due for 
maturity on 22 December 2020. 
In November 2020, Mr E and Ms W received a letter from NS&I reminding them that their 
GIB was about to mature. The letter explained the options available to them. Option one 
allowed them to rollover an amount from their maturing GIB into a new GIB for a term of 
three years. The letter said the new GIB would attract an interest rate of 0.36%. It also said 
that if the rate on offer fell, they would still receive this rate. If the rate increased before the 
maturity date, they would receive the higher rate.
The letter also explained changes to NS&Is GIBs meaning that Mr E and Ms W wouldnt be 
able to cash any new bond in until its maturity. They were provided with the right to cancel 
any new bond within 30 days.
Mr E and Ms W decided to accept option one in the letter and reinvest the bulk of their 
maturing funds, cashing in the remainder. They said their decision was based upon NS&Is 
assurance that they may receive a higher rate.
During the early part of 2022, Mr E and Ms W noticed that the rate on another of their 
deposits with NS&I had risen on two occasions. But the interest rate on their new GIB 
remained unchanged. They didnt think this seemed right. So, they emailed NS&I on 1 March 
2022 to ask why their GIB rate hadnt been increased. 
NS&I replied to Mr E and Ms W the same day. They said their GIB account is a fixed term 
product. The interest rate they renewed at is fixed for the term they agreed on. Mr E and Ms 
W disagreed with NS&I. They said NS&Is maturity letter clearly implied there was a 
possibility that interest rates could change within the term. And it was on this basis they 
decided to renew the GIB. They thought theyd been misled by the wording of NS&Is letter, 
so raised a complaint.
NS&I responded to Mr E and Ms Ws complaint in a letter dated 2 March 2022. They 
apologised if Mr E and Ms W felt theyd been misled by the wording of their letter. They 
confirmed that reference to any increase in the new GIB interest rate offered only related to 
the period up to maturity of their previous GIB. They didnt agree they done anything wrong.
Mr E and Ms W were unhappy with NS&Is response to their complaint. So, they decided to 
refer matters to this service. Having considered all the information available, our investigator 
didnt think NS&I had done anything wrong. Our investigator acknowledged that Mr E and 
Ms W had misunderstood NS&Is letter but didnt agree that the wording was unclear or 
misleading, so didnt agree that NS&I should do anything more.
Mr E and Ms W didnt agree with our investigators findings. They thought the fact theyd 
both interpreted NS&Is letter in the same was evidence enough that the wording had been 
poorly written, so was open to misinterpretation.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr E and Ms Ws complaint has been passed to me 
to consider further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Key to Mr E and Ms Ws complaint is NS&Is GIB maturity letter dated 20 November 2020. In 
particular, the explanation of Option 1. The letter is headed Your Bond is about to mature. 
It goes on to provide full details of Mr E and Ms Ws existing maturing bond showing a 
maturity date of 22 December 2020. The key details of the maturing bond are included in 
bold typeface.
Option 1 allows Mr E and Ms W to renew for another 3-year term. It says:
On its maturity date your Guaranteed Income Bond will automatically start a new 3-year term 
at the new rate of 0.36% gross/0.36% AEREven if the rates on offer for Guaranteed 
Income Bonds fall between now and the maturity date, youll still earn the rate quoted above 
if you renew your investment for a further term of the same length. If the rates go up 
between now and the maturity date, you will receive the higher rate.
Having read this, I interpreted this as an assurance that if the rate for a new GIB changed 
before Mr E and Ms Ws existing GIB matured, they would be assured of achieving at least 
0.36% on their new bond, and potentially more if new rates were to increase in that period. 
Mr E and Ms W interpreted the reference to the maturity date as relating to the new GIB. 
Unfortunately, that wasnt the case here.
A guaranteed income bond is generally defined as an investment or savings product that will 
give a fixed amount of money each month or year for a particular period. In the case of 
NS&I, the entire capital amount deposited is also guaranteed by HM Treasury, part of the UK 
Government.
Accompanying NS&Is maturity letter was a Key Features document specific to GIBs. On 
page two under What is NS&Is Guaranteed Income Bond, it states, Our GIB is an 
investment that pays interest monthly at a set rate over a fixed period of time. Page 6 has 
a heading, About our interest rates under which it says Our interest rates are set by HM 
Treasury and may change from time to time. If weve told you that the interest rate is fixed 
for a period of time, then no interest rate changes will apply during that period. 
NS&Is website provides access to a document entitled Guaranteed Income BondsWeve 
made some changes. Page three of this document under the heading How do they work? 
says, They earn a fixed rate of interest that is guaranteed for the length of term you invest 
in.
Mr E and Ms W told our investigator, To underline our position, we relied entirely on the 
wording of that paragraph (in NS&Is maturity letter). I accept this is what influenced Mr E 
and Ms Ws decision to renew their GIB as they did. And I understand why they might 
interpret the paragraph they refer to as they did. But equally, it seems both I and our 
investigator interpreted it differently. And where there is potential for misunderstanding, I 
dont think Mr E and Ms W could safely rely upon the one sentence in that paragraph alone 
in reaching their decision.
The documents Ive referred to above are, I believe, clear and easy to understand. And 
when considered together with NS&Is maturity letter, I think it was clear that the interest rate 
paid on a GIB was fixed for the agreed term. Where any doubt exists, questions could be 
raised with NS&I before committing. NS&I provide a 30-day cancellation period to 
accommodate such situations.I want to acknowledged Mr E and Ms Ws strength of feeling here. Theyve been very open 
with this service in explaining the importance of both their savings and the interest they 
receive to support their ongoing living costs. For that reason, I want to reassure them that 
Ive considered all their points and arguments thoroughly and carefully. While I appreciate 
they will be disappointed; I cant reasonably say that NS&I did anything wrong or treated Mr 
E and Ms W unfairly or unreasonably here.
Mr E and Ms W did ask whether NS&I would permit them to close out their new GIB early to 
transfer to another NS&I products, as a gesture of goodwill. NS&Is new terms and 
conditions dont permit that. And this service isnt able to instruct or insist that NS&I make 
such a gesture. That would be a business decision for them and not something Im able to 
influence.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr E and Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman