DRN-1799866
The complaint
Mr T complains on behalf of his company who I will refer to as F, that Jelf Insurance Brokers 
Limited failed to arrange an insurance policy for F.
What happened
Mr T was the director of C, a car sales company. He took out an insurance policy for C 
through a broker  Jelf. 
Cs policy was due for renewal at the end of February 2019. Mr T asked Jelf to arrange 
cover for the following year. However he advised that the company was being sold and a 
new company was being set up  F. He said F would use the same stock and premises 
as C.
After receiving the full details of the insurance required, Jelf explained to Mr T that it was 
struggling to find an insurer who would agree to offer cover, due to the fact the new company 
was a start-up. It confirmed that the current policy would be cancelled after 27 February 
2019. Mr T asked for the names of the insurers so that he could try and arrange insurance 
himself. Mr T subsequently arranged a policy for F directly with another insurer. 
Later that year there was a fire at Fs premises. Mr T called Jelf and asked for its assistance 
with the claim on its insurance. Jelf directed him back to the insurer as Mr T had taken out 
the policy independently and not through Jelf. 
Mr T contacted Jelf a few more times for assistance with the insurance claim. Each time he 
was directed back to the insurer. 
In June 2019 Mr T made a complaint to Jelf. He said Jelf had failed to arrange insurance 
cover for F which had resulted in a large loss to the business following the fire. He also said 
that his contact at Jelf had promised that it would be able to help him out financially with the 
claim and then hadnt followed this through.
Jelf didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had tried to secure cover but hadnt been able to do 
so with its panel of insurers. It said it informed Mr T of the date of the end of the policy before 
and when it was cancelled. Further it said it wouldnt offer to financially support a customer 
and had seen no evidence that its representative did so.
Mr T wasnt happy with this response as he felt Jelf were responsible for not arranging 
cover. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
He said as Mr T arranged cover directly with another insurer, Jelf werent responsible for the 
loss. 
Mr T didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T says that because Jelf were unable to provide cover for F, it is responsible for its losses 
following the fire. The role of an insurance broker is to arrange, sell and administer an 
insurance policy. So in order to decide if Jelf has treated Mr T, on behalf of F, fairly, I have 
considered whether it provided him with clear information about his policy that was due to 
expire and the cover available.
When Mr T explained that F would require insurance for the next policy year, Jelf had to 
contact its panel of insurers to get new quotes for the policy. It has provided correspondence 
to show that it did this.
I can also see that all the insurers Jelf contacted, responded to explain that they werent 
prepared to take on the new risk.
Although it is unfortunate that Jelf werent able to find a suitable policy for F, Jelf isnt 
responsible for the actions of its insurers. Including their decisions as to whether they agree 
to take on a risk or not. Jelf is only able to offer what the insurers can provide. So I cant say 
that Jelf have done anything wrong by not offering an insurance policy for F.
Further I can see that Jelf informed Mr T that Cs policy was due to end in good time before 
the end of the policy. And it explained that it had not been able to find an insurer to offer a 
new policy for F. This was explained around two weeks before the policy was due to expire, 
so Im satisfied it gave Mr T clear information and enough notice in order to arrange his own 
policy in good time.
Mr T has said that a staff member at Jelf had committed to helping him out financially with 
the claim. And he thinks this promise should be honoured. Jelf has denied this. And Ive 
seen no evidence to suggest this was promised. From the correspondence and claim notes 
provided by Jelf, I can see that Mr T did ask Jelf for help with his insurance claim. And one of 
its representatives tried to help him by providing information from the website of the insurer 
who provided the policy for F. However, Mr T was told repeatedly that he would need to 
speak to the insurer directly about the claim. 
So although I can see Jelf did try to assist Mr T, Ive seen nothing to suggest that it offered to 
be of financial assistance in the claim. Nor would it be Jelfs place to do so.
For these reasons Im satisfied that Jelf treated Mr T fairly. It informed him in good time that 
it wouldnt be able to offer a policy for F and it directed him back to his insurer when he was 
making a claim. So I wont ask Jelf to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I wont require Jelf Insurance Brokers Limited to do anything 
differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman