DRN-2836459
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) has rejected his 
claim for reimbursement of the cost of repairing a cracked mobile phone screen.
What happened
Mr G has an insurance policy which covers him for damage to his phone. This is provided by 
his bank and Assurant provides the insurance. 
On 7 December 2020 Mr G broke the screen on his mobile phone. Due to the nature of his 
work during the Covid 19 pandemic, he needed to have this repaired very quickly and 
couldnt wait for it to be sent away to be repaired. He therefore chose to have it repaired by 
the same day repair service offered by Apple. This cost him £259. When he sought to have 
this reimbursed to him (less the £75 policy excess), Assurant rejected his claim because he 
hadnt registered his claim with it before having his phone repaired and it said it was no 
longer covering repairs provided by Apples walk- in service. 
Mr G wants Assurant to reimburse him the £259 it cost him to repair his phone less the £75 
policy excess. He says that theres nothing in the policy that says its a requirement to notify 
Assurant before having a repair done, and this had been possible previously. He also says 
theres nothing in the policy that says that walk-in repairs arent covered. Hed told Assurant 
about the claim as soon as he could.
Assurant has said that under the policy Terms and Conditions the normal procedure is that it 
will provide a repair or replacement for a damaged phone. It said it did offer the walk-in 
repair process with the manufacturer as an alternative option, but this wasnt its standard 
process. It says that its process prior to the pandemic was that if a customer contacted it to 
register a claim for a faulty device and was only claiming for screen damage to the phone, 
then depending on the phone to be repaired, it would offer the amount Apple would charge 
for the screen to be replaced, less the policy excess. It would then advise the customer to 
take the phone to an Apple store and then send it a copy of the invoice for the repair.
It says that following the outbreak of the pandemic a decision had been taken between itself 
and Apple that this service would no longer be offered until it was safer to do so, and also 
during lockdown their stores were closed. Although Mr G had been able to have his phone 
repaired at an Apple store, Assurant had not resumed this option for repairs.
Assurant says it expects customers to contact it prior to completing a fulfilment so that we 
may advise the fulfilment options that we have available.  It says that Mr G shouldve 
contacted it and explained the issues with the phone and his circumstances, and that he 
could get the phone repaired straight away by Apple. It says it may then have agreed to him 
going ahead with this repair on this one occasion as a gesture of goodwill. But as he didnt 
tell it until after hed had the phone repaired, and in the interests of treating all customers 
fairly, there was nothing that it could do. For this reason it said it wouldnt cover the cost of 
this repair.
Mr G brought his complaint to this service. Our investigators view was that Assurant had 
acted unreasonably in rejecting Mr Gs claim in these circumstances and recommended that 
it meet the claim. Assurant doesnt agree with our investigators view, and has asked that the 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going to uphold Mr Gs complaint and Ill give my reasons for doing so.
Ive looked at the Terms and Conditions of Mr Gs policy. Mr G is correct in saying that the 
policy doesnt specifically say that its a requirement for any claim that Assurant be notified 
before any repair is undertaken. The requirement is only to report the claim as soon as 
possible. Nor does the policy specifically say that it wont cover any claims for the cost of 
repairs that customers have arranged themselves. 
Mr G needed his phone fixed as soon as possible, and I can see from the quote he received 
from the Apple store that it was given at 14:44 and that the phone would be ready for 
collection around 15:30. This avoided any need for the phone to be sent away. This walk-in  
service had previously been offered by Assurant, and Mr G was aware of this. He wasnt 
aware that Assurant had changed its procedure.
I dont consider it was reasonable for Assurant to have declined Mr Gs claim for 
reimbursement in these circumstances. The process is one it used to follow in certain 
circumstances, and those circumstances appear to apply in this case. Mr G had the phone 
repaired by the manufacturer which was a guarantee of the need for the work done, its 
quality, and a verifiable cost. Although Assurant was denied the opportunity to discuss 
options with Mr G, this appears to have been the most practical and efficient option in the 
circumstances. I consider that Assurant is likely to have approved it were it not for the fact 
that its procedures had changed because of the belief that the walk-in service wouldnt be 
available due to the pandemic. I dont consider that theres been any identifiable 
disadvantage to Assurant.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint. I require Assurant 
General Insurance Limited to reimburse to Mr G the amount of £184, being the £259 cost of 
the repair less the £75 policy excess.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman