DRN-2041160
The complaint
Miss W complains about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a request she made 
for medical assistance under her travel insurance policy while she was abroad.
 
What happened
Miss W was on holiday. She had been suffering from asthma attacks and felt she needed 
hospital treatment. She called UKIs medical assistance team to ask for help finding a 
hospital and to check whether her costs would be covered.
The call handler told Miss W that he couldnt confirm upfront that any medical expenses 
would be paid. He explained UKI would need to see medical evidence from the treating 
hospital and might need further information before it would agree to cover a claim.  He was 
also unable to see whether UKI had agreed to cover Miss Ws asthma on her policy. And he 
let Miss W know that some hospitals would require her to pay treatment costs herself and 
then claim them back through UKI. He provided Miss W with the names of local hospitals 
which might be able to help her.
Miss W was concerned that shed incur medical expenses that wouldnt be paid. And she felt 
the call handler had suggested she wasnt covered. So she decided against seeking hospital 
treatment abroad. She told us she called her GP instead, who gave her a care plan. She 
said she bought the medication privately. She had to spend several days in bed unwell but 
was ultimately able to return home as planned. UKI later confirmed that she had declared 
asthma to it around four months previously and itd agreed to cover the condition. Miss W 
was very unhappy with the service shed received and she complained. 
UKI looked into Miss Ws complaint. It accepted the call handler hadnt been able to tell Miss 
W if her asthma was covered. But it said the call handler would never have been able to 
confirm that any claim would definitely be paid at that point. It felt the call handler had told 
Miss W the best course of action would be to seek medical help. But shed decided not to. 
So it didnt think the call handler had done anything wrong. However, it acknowledged that 
when Miss W had called up to complain, her concerns hadnt been properly logged. And she 
hadnt been called back when shed been told she would. So it offered Miss W £100 
compensation.
Miss W wasnt happy with UKIs offer and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think UKIs offer of compensation was fair. He thought the call handler 
had correctly informed Miss W about the claims process. And he felt theyd tried to assist her 
by finding a local hospital which could treat her. But he felt that UKI shouldve able to confirm 
to Miss W whether her asthma had been declared and whether it was covered by the policy. 
He felt that if itd done so, it was most likely Miss W wouldve sought medical treatment at a 
hospital. So he recommended that UKI should pay Miss W an additional £100 
compensation, on top of the £100 itd already offered.
Neither Miss W nor UKI accepted the investigators view.
UKI said that even if the call handler had been able to confirm that Miss Ws asthma was 
covered, they still wouldnt have been able to validate any claim until she got a medical 
report. It felt most of the advice the call handler had given Miss W had been correct and 
helpful. It said Miss W had needed to go to hospital and the assistance service hadnt been 
able to make her do so.
Miss W felt UKI had put her life at risk by advising her she wasnt covered for emergency 
treatment. The service shed received had had a detrimental effect on her health, as she was 
left without medication or supervision until the following morning. She didnt think an 
additional £100 was enough of a fine to make UKI change its training or processes. She 
spent over £100 on medication to tide her over until she got home. Shed essentially missed 
her holiday, as shed had to stay in bed, rather than do the things shed planned to do. She 
was left unable to undertake caring responsibilities once she returned home. She had 
genuinely feared for her life that night.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided UKI must pay Miss W total compensation of £200  an 
additional £100 on top of what its already paid her. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to thank Miss W for her detailed submissions. Ive summarised the background 
to Miss Ws complaint and what I consider to be the key points in her response. But Id like to 
reassure her that Ive read and thought carefully about all shes said and sent us. Its clear 
what happened was very distressing for Miss W and Im sorry to hear about her illness.
Its important that I explain the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service. Were not the 
industry regulator. We have no power to direct a financial business we cover to change its 
policies or processes. And we also have no power to punish or fine a financial business. Our 
role is to consider complaints brought by individual consumers. We can make awards if we 
think a financial business has done something wrong that it needs to put right. 
So while I appreciate Miss W feels £200 total compensation isnt enough to fine UKI for the 
service she got from its assistance company; a fine simply isnt something were able to 
impose.  
UKI accepts it didnt deal with Miss Ws complaint as well as it couldve done. Specifically, it 
recognised that her complaint hadnt been correctly logged and that she didnt get a call 
back when it said she would. I dont doubt how frustrating and upsetting this mustve been 
for Miss W at a time when she was already feeling let down by UKI. So I think its right that 
UKI paid Miss W £100 compensation for this mistake. I understand a cheque for this amount 
was very recently reissued to Miss W.
But Ive then gone on to think about whether I think £100 total compensation for Miss Ws 
specific circumstances is enough. 
Like the investigator, Ive listened to Miss Ws first call to UKI. Its clear Miss W wanted 
assurance from the outset that any medical expenses she incurred would be paid by UKI. I 
dont think though that the call handler could give Miss W a definite answer about whether 
any medical expenses claim would be paid. Most, if not all, travel insurers will require at 
least a medical report from a treating doctor or hospital to establish a policyholders diagnosis and proposed treatment plan. In some cases, insurers will need to get medical 
evidence from a policyholders GP or other information before theyre in a position to decide 
if a claims covered. So I think the call handler gave Miss W broadly the right information 
about the claims process. And it was reasonable for them not to be able to confirm whether 
or not a claim would be paid. 
Additionally, I think it was reasonable for the call handler to explain that a hospital or clinic 
may require a policyholder to pay their own expenses upfront and then reclaim them from 
their insurer afterwards. 
Having listened to the call, I dont think the call handler suggested that any medical 
expenses claim Miss W made wouldnt be covered. I think they simply correctly let her know 
that further information would be needed before UKI could decide whether or not to pay a 
claim. 
However, I do think the fact the call handler wasnt able to tell Miss W whether or not shed 
declared asthma and whether itd been accepted for cover by UKI did cause her additional 
upset. It seems it mightve been down to a systems issue rather than a mistake by the call 
handler. But Miss W was clearly concerned whether claims relating to her asthma would be 
covered and she was obviously distressed during the call. So I think the fact the call handler 
wasnt able to reassure her that asthma itself had been accepted for cover by UKI probably 
added to her upset. And I think if shed been reassured that UKI did have a record of her 
declaration, she mightve considered it more likely that a claim related to asthma would 
ultimately be payable. 
On this basis, I think the lack of confirmation of asthma cover probably did feed into Miss 
Ws choice not to seek hospital treatment. I do agree though that it was ultimately Miss Ws 
choice not to go to hospital, but instead to speak to her GP. 
I do think the call handler tried to help Miss W. They offered to help find a hospital that might 
be able to treat her. I think it mightve been more helpful if theyd referred to a preferred 
hospital list before suggesting internet search links to Miss W, some of which clearly werent 
suitable given their specialisms. But I agree they did suggest the best thing for Miss W to do 
was to visit a hospital or GP and seek care, given the nature of her symptoms. And that the 
call handler ultimately gave Miss W hospital details to enable her to do so.
Overall, I think the fact Miss Ws existing asthma cover wasnt confirmed did cause her 
unnecessary additional distress and upset at a time when her symptoms were likely already 
causing her significant worry. Ive borne in mind that shes told us she was alone and that 
she considered she needed urgent help. So I think its reasonable that UKI pays Miss W 
additional compensation of £100 to recognise the further upset this caused her.  I think 
overall compensation of £200 to recognise the things it did wrong is fair in these particular 
circumstances.
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Miss W. But I have to bear in mind 
what did happen, rather than speculate on what couldve happened. Ultimately, it seems to 
me that even if Miss W had sought treatment from a hospital abroad, shed likely have still 
required the type of medication suggested by her GP to get her condition under control. And 
shed still have likely needed some time to recover. So Im satisfied that £200 overall 
compensation feels fair to recognise her trouble and upset.
Miss W says she spent around £100 on private medication abroad. Its open to her to make 
a medical expenses claim to UKI for these costs for it to consider should she choose to do 
so.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Ws complaint.
I direct U K Insurance Limited to pay Miss W further compensation of £100, in addition to the 
£100 its already paid her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman