DRN-2769682
The complaint
Miss M and Mr R complain Elderbridge Limited (Elderbridge) treated them unfairly while 
theyve been experiencing financial difficulties. It hasnt offered to negotiate a fair and 
affordable way to settle their secured loan and has charged them too much in interest so 
they have no realistic prospect of repaying it.
Miss M and Mr R have also made several other complaints about Elderbridge  including 
that it hasnt acted in line with relevant laws and regulation so they dont think the amount it 
says is outstanding is correct. But as our service has already looked at a complaint about 
that, this decision will cover the above points only. And its about whats happened since 
Elderbridge took ownership of the loan only.  
What happened
Around May 2008 Miss M and Mr R took out a fixed-sum loan for around £40,000 secured 
against their home over a 10-year period. The loan was originally taken out with a different 
business but the ownership of it transferred to Elderbridge around January 2016.
Miss M and Mr R have said they made the full repayments until December 2014. But from 
the following year, their circumstances changed. Mr R was made redundant and developed 
a long-term sickness so he relied on irregular work to make repayments. And in 2016, 
Miss M went on maternity leave  so for a period of time, neither of them were working.
Elderbridge has said Miss M and Mr R were on a repayment plan since January 2015 when 
they first started having difficulties. And this plan was extended a few times until around 
January 2017. Its said the last payment they made towards the account was in 
February 2017. Miss M and Mr R have said this plan  which consisted of them making 
reduced payments  didnt help them because most of the repayments went towards the 
interest and only a very small amount (about £20) went towards the capital. This meant they 
couldnt reduce the outstanding balance so it continued to increase.
Around April 2017 and June 2018, Miss M and Mr R made offers to settle the loan. These 
were for £7,000 and £10,000. Elderbridge declined both offers because the outstanding 
balance was significantly higher. And it thought Miss M and Mr Rs circumstances might 
change. It also thought it would get the full outstanding amount if they sold the property.
 In September 2019 Miss M and Mr R made another offer to Elderbridge to set up a 
repayment plan of £100 per month. But this was declined as it wasnt enough to bring down 
the outstanding balance. Elderbridge thinks it responded to the offers fairly and in line with 
regulations but Miss M and Mr R disagree. They complain Elderbridge didnt enter into any 
form of negotiation and had it done so, they mightve increased the offers.
Unhappy, Miss M and Mr R asked our service to look into things. Our investigator didnt 
uphold their complaint. In summary she said Elderbridge had rejected Miss M and Mr Rs 
offers to settle the loan fairly as the offers were significantly below the outstanding balance. 
And she thought Elderbridge had done enough to support them whilst they were facing 
financial difficulties. As Miss M and Mr R didnt agree, the case was passed to me to decide.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision in March 2021. I explained Id thought about the relevant 
law and rules  including the Mortgage Conduct of Business rules (MCOB) which Miss M 
and Mr Rs loan became regulated by from March 2016; and the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA) which applied before this. And as were an alternative to the court, Id thought about 
the Time Orders allowing courts to make changes to a CCA agreement. Id also thought 
about whats fair, reasonable and good industry practice. In summary, I provisionally decided 
the complaint should be upheld in part because:
Miss M and Mr R had kept a reasonable amount of contact with Elderbridge until their 
last repayment around 2017. 
Most of what Miss M and Mr R paid towards the loan balance went towards the interest. 
So the repayment plan they were on was putting them in a more difficult position and 
wasnt enough to put the account back on track.
Elderbridge shouldve thought again about the forbearance options it could provide to 
help Miss M and Mr R. This included moving the interest charged to, or treating it as, a 
separate account. So interest wouldve been charged on the balance of the mortgage on 
a simple basis, rather than being compounded. 
Whilst I could see Miss M and Mr R stopped making payments towards the account, I 
thought this was because anything they could afford didnt reduce the capital. And I 
could see they did make offers to settle the balance. 
Miss M and Mr R couldve made a clearer effort to regularly communicate with 
Elderbridge. But if things hadnt gone wrong, they mightve been in a better position to 
make payments and prevent the outstanding arrears increasing at the same rate. 
Elderbridge couldve done more to support Miss M and Mr R but instead focussed mainly 
on whether they could sell their home at a difficult time for them. Had it explored other 
options, it couldve minimised the stress and worry they experienced.
Miss M and Mr R offered to repay less than half of what was outstanding to settle the debt. 
And they didnt reply when Elderbridge asked them to propose a repayment plan. So I didnt 
think if Elderbridge had negotiated with them following their offers they wouldve increased 
them  particularly as they didnt seem to agree with how much was outstanding. 
To put things right, I thought Elderbridge should defer the interest charged on the account 
from January 2016. To do this, I thought it should re-work the account and interest charged 
and set out the new outstanding balance, including a separate interest account. I also 
thought Elderbridge should pay Miss M and Mr R £150 as compensation. 
I asked both parties to make any further comments before I reached a final decision. 
Miss M and Mr R made a number of comments and provided several documents. These 
mainly related to why they thought, under the Mortgage Credit Directive Order 2015, 
Elderbridge should remove the interest applied to the account when the loan the was in 
default. They also didnt think the amount of compensation suggested was enough. In June 2021 I wrote to both parties again. Having considered Miss M and Mr Rs response, I 
explained I thought theyd misunderstood the regulations. In summary, I didnt think the rules 
theyd referred to which relate to payment of interest for default sums applied in this case as 
their loan account hadnt been defaulted as no repossession proceedings had taken place 
and the agreement hadnt ended. So I didnt think Elderbridge needed to remove the interest 
accrued. But I did think it should remove the legal fees applied to the outstanding balance 
and that it should pay Miss M and Mr R £750 for the trouble and upset theyd been through. 
In response, Elderbridge said the forbearance option Id suggested wasnt something it 
usually offered unless it was already in place with the previous lender. So instead it offered 
to suppress the interest on Miss M and Mr Rs account to 0% from January 2016 until the 
loan is settled and the account closed. And it agreed to remove the legal fees already added. 
But it didnt agree to pay any further compensation. Elderbridge said the remaining loan 
balance had gone past its original term so it would need to engage with Miss M and Mr R to 
understand their affordability and establish options to repay whats outstanding.
In response to Elderbridges offer, in summary Miss M and Mr R said they wanted it to:
Calculate the amount to be repaid going forward and offered £300 per month;
Remove all negative markers added to their credit files from January 2016 and mark all 
future payments as full mortgage payments on their credit files;
Remove all legal fees on their account, including costs of any proposed proceedings. 
Elderbridge told us the interest the account had accrued was around £13,484 from 
January 2016 until 15 July 2021. But it highlighted the interest would continue to accrue until 
suppressed. It confirmed three legal fees had been charged to the account totalling around 
£768. So it said the outstanding balance on 15 July 2021, after removing the interest and 
legal fees, would be £17,499.11. It also let us know due to the level of arrears on the 
account and the payment history, amending the balance wouldnt improve Miss M and 
Mr Rs credit  and the arrears would still be reported. But it said if they pay the new 
contractual instalments, it wouldnt be reported as an arrangement to pay on their credit file. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the offer Elderbridge has made and everything Miss M and Mr R have 
said. And Im satisfied Elderbridges offer is fair in this case as it goes further than I think it 
needed to. So Ill address the points which are outstanding. 
I appreciate Miss M and Mr R want our service to direct Elderbridge to agree to a monthly 
repayment of £300. But that doesnt form part of this complaint. It also wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to do so as Elderbridge needs to ensure the repayments agreed are 
realistic, reasonable and affordable. To reach an agreement, both sides will need to engage 
with each other and its likely Miss M and Mr R will need to provide details about their 
income, expenditure and circumstances. 
I dont think its fair to ask Elderbridge to remove all markers added to Miss M and Mr Rs 
credit files. Thats because whilst the offer puts them in a better position, Ive thought about 
what wouldve happened if nothing had gone wrong. In this case, Elderbridge wouldve 
explored forbearance options but the interest would still have been payable. And Miss M and 
Mr R have said they couldnt afford it. So I think their files would still have been affected. Elderbridge has agreed to remove the legal fees added to Miss M and Mr Rs account. I 
think thats fair as, if Elderbridge had considered forbearance options, its likely they 
wouldve been able to make payments towards the outstanding capital and reduce it over 
time. So its likely they wouldnt have reached the point where Elderbridge needed to take 
legal action. 
Miss M and Mr R have highlighted there are fees that have been added pending a court 
hearing which hasnt gone ahead. As explained above and in my previous correspondence, I 
consider it fair for Elderbridge to remove any legal fees for legal action thats taken place  
or wouldnt have happened if it had considered other forbearance options. So that would 
include any proposed proceedings as a result of whats already happened. But this decision 
doesnt cover any future legal proceedings which take place because Miss M and Mr R dont 
repay whats outstanding going forward after the interest and legal fees are removed.
Elderbridge has said Miss M and Mr Rs credit files are unlikely to improve as their arrears 
will continue to be reported. But its said, provided they pay their new contractual monthly 
instalments which are to be agreed by both parties, it wont be reported as an arrangement 
to pay on their credit file.
Putting things right
To put things right for Miss M and Mr R in this case I think Elderbridge should do what its 
offered Miss M and Mr R:
Suppress the interest added since January 2016 to 0% until the loan is settled and the 
account is closed;
Set out the new outstanding balance to be repaid by them which should be around 
£17,500 depending on when its calculated; and
Remove any legal fees and provisional legal fees applied to their account up to the date 
of this decision which have been added due to whats happened so far.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Miss M and Mr Rs complaint in part and direct 
Elderbridge Limited to put things right by doing what Ive said above. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mr R to accept or reject my 
decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman