DRN-3868817
The complaint
Miss B complains about the advice given by D C Financial Limited to transfer the benefits 
from her defined-benefit (DB) scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension. 
She says the advice was unsuitable for her and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Miss Bs employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed 
they could transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In October 2017 Miss Bs employer sent out Time to Choose information asking members 
of the DB scheme what they wanted to do with their preserved benefits  either remain in the 
BSPS which would then move to the PPF, join the BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits 
elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 11 December 2017 (and was later 
extended to 22 December 2017.)
Miss B returned her Time to Choose leaflet indicating she wanted to opt into the BSPS2.
Miss B was nevertheless concerned about what the announcements meant for the security 
of her DB scheme, so she sought advice. Miss B met with D C Financial in January 2018 
and it completed a financial planning questionnaire with her to gather information about her 
circumstances and objectives. D C Financial also carried out an assessment of Miss Bs 
attitude to risk, which it deemed to be cautious to moderate.
On 9 February 2018 D C Financial advised Miss B to transfer her BSPS benefits into a 
personal pension arrangement and invest the proceeds in a portfolio of investment funds, 
which D C Financial deemed matched Miss Bs attitude to risk. In summary D C Financials 
reasons for the recommendation were to provide Miss B with flexibility in retirement, provide 
better death benefits for her family and to alleviate her concerns about the DB scheme giving 
her control over her pension fund.
Miss B accepted the recommendation and around £62,000 was subsequently transferred to 
Mr Bs new personal pension.
In 2021 Miss B complained to D C Financial, via this service, about the suitability of the 
transfer advice.
D C Financial didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint. In summary it said the transfer was suitable 
and that based on Miss Bs needs and objectives it was in her best interests. It said it 
provided her with clear advice setting out the benefits as well as the risks of transferring. It 
said that Miss Bs pension as at the last review had grown in excess of 5% after charges, 
which is greater than the critical yield figure of 4.84%. It added that the FCA had carried out 
a review of several of its files involving transfers from the BSPS and it had raised no 
concerns as a result.
Dissatisfied with its response Miss B asked this service to consider her complaint. And an 
investigator upheld it and said D C Financial should pay Miss B compensation. In summary 
they said they didnt think the advice was suitable. They said Miss B was likely to receive 
lower overall benefits at retirement as a result of transferring and there were no other 
particular reasons to outweigh this  for example there was nothing to show that Miss Bs 
plans for retirement were known given her age or that she needed flexibility beyond that 
which she already had through her DC pension scheme. They also said death benefits 
shouldnt have been prioritised over providing Miss B with a retirement income, which is the 
main purpose of a pension. They acknowledged Miss B was told about the risks, but they 
said this didnt make the unsuitable advice suitable. Finally they said because Miss B opted 
into the BSPS2, compensation should be based on a comparison of the benefits provided 
under the BSSP2.
D C Financial disagreed. In summary it said that it didnt accept Miss Bs recollections and 
discussions with the adviser, which she set out in her complaint letter. It said this suggested 
Miss B didnt have much knowledge of pensions and that she felt rushed. But it said a full 
discussion was had with Miss B at the time and she signed a document to say she 
understood the risks. And it rejects the suggestion that the adviser put pressure on her. It 
said the option of life cover to protect her family instead of relying on her pension benefits 
was discussed with Miss B, but she didnt want her accrued pension benefits to be lost. It 
went on to repeat much of the same points it made in its final response letter  i.e. Miss B 
was suitably advised; her needs and circumstances were considered; she was properly 
informed; and the performance of the pension has exceeded the critical yield. It also said 
that given the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had found no fault in its review of some 
BSPS advice files, it says there is no reason to depart from this. It added that if this service 
continues to believe the advice was unsuitable in this case it needs to explain why the FCA 
was wrong. Finally it said it wanted the ombudsman to issue a provisional decision on this 
matter to allow them the opportunity to consider and respond before a final decision is 
reached.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of D C Financials actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19, which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. My reasons are set out below. 
Before I address the crux of this complaint and the suitability of the pension transfer advice, 
Id like to briefly address the following points D C Financial raised in its response to the 
investigators assessment. 
Firstly I can see it said that the FCA previously undertook a review of its advice process in 
relation to members of the BSPS and they didnt highlight any concerns. It said, whilst the 
advice was tailored for each matter, it applied a consistent approach to determining 
suitability and recording its advice. So it has questioned how our service can come to a 
different conclusion that the transfer advice was unsuitable. My role and that of our service is 
different to that of the FCA. My role is to look at the individual circumstances of a complaint - 
not a business processes and practices as a whole - and decide what I consider is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint taking into account the considerations I 
listed above. And that is what Ive done here.
Secondly I can see that D C Financial has requested that I issue a provisional decision on 
this case before I make a final decision. But I dont think I need to do so. Having considered 
everything provided by both sides, Im upholding the complaint for largely the same reasons 
given by the investigator. Im not persuaded that any of the arguments raised by D C 
Financial in its submissions following the investigators assessment are new. And Im 
satisfied that the investigator addressed these themes fully in their opinion letters. Im also 
not making my decision based on any new information provided by Miss B. So, it follows that 
I can issue a final decision.
And thirdly D C Financial has raised a concern about Miss Bs complaint submission, in 
which she gave her recollections from the time of the sale, and the inference or suggestion 
she felt under pressure from the adviser. Of course pressure is a subjective thing - but Ive 
found no evidence to support the view that D C Financial placed undue pressure on Miss B 
when it advised her to transfer her pension, so Ive not upheld the complaint for this reason.
Turning now to the heart of the matter - The regulator, the (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 
that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, D C 
Financial should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the 
transfer was in Miss Bs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im 
not persuaded that it was in her best interests.
Financial viability 
For the sake of clarity - D C Financial produced a transfer value analysis report, as required 
by the regulator, showing how much Miss Bs pension fund would need to grow by each year 
in order to provide the same benefits as her DB scheme  referred to as the critical yield. 
And it based this on Miss Bs benefits available under the BSPS2. Despite the fact the 
advice was provided after the deadline by which Miss B had to make a choice about whether she wanted to opt in to the new BSPS2 or remain in the scheme and move with it to the 
PPF, because Miss B had taken the decision to opt into the BSPS2 as a precautionary 
measure, Im satisfied it was appropriate for D C Financial to base the report using the 
BSPS2 scheme benefits. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers,
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Miss B was 30 at the time of the advice. And while the advice paperwork she wanted to 
retire as soon as she can a retirement age of 60 appears to have been used as Miss Bs 
preferred retirement age. 
The critical yield required to match Miss Bs benefits at age 60 in the BSPS2 was 5.02% if 
she took a full pension. D C Financial didnt provide a critical yield figure assuming Miss B 
took her tax-free cash entitlement and a reduced pension. But it did provide critical yields to 
match Miss Bs benefits available through the PPF at age 60, which were 4.98% assuming 
she took a full pension and 4.8% if she took a reduced pension.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.7% per year for 28 years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection 
rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Miss 
B's cautious to moderate attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view there 
would be little point in Miss B giving up the guarantees available to her through her DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme.
But here, assuming Miss B took her full pension at age 60 in the BSPS2, the critical yield 
was 5.02%. This figure was higher than the discount rate and it was also higher than the 
regulators middle projection rate. Im mindful that it was not significantly higher  but I think 
the opportunity to improve on the benefits provided by the BSPS2 was limited if Miss B 
transferred out of the scheme and invested in line with a cautious to moderate attitude to 
risk. Achieving a growth rate of 5.02% was the rate to effectively stand still. To improve on 
the benefits available to Miss B in the BSPS2 required growth in excess of this every year 
until retirement - in my view it required returns in excess of the regulators middle projection 
rate.
I think its likely, at best, Miss B would end up receiving benefits of broadly the same overall 
value as a result of investing in line with her stated attitude to risk. In my view, to have come 
close to achieving the level of growth required to exceed the benefits provided by the BSPS2 
if she transferred to a personal pension, would have required Miss B to take a higher level of 
investment risk than I think she indicated she was prepared to take. 
There of course still remained the real risk that Miss B might end up with benefits of a lower 
overall value than those provided by the BSPS2. And given the critical yield required to 
match Miss Bs benefits through the PPF, I dont think the situation was any different here - I 
think the opportunity to improve on the benefits provided by the PPF was limited if Miss B 
transferred out of the BSPS. 
Im mindful that Miss B was not married and its likely the critical yield figure was based on the BSPS2 providing a spouses pension, which wouldnt have been important to Miss B at 
this time. But Miss B had a partner, so its possible that she might get married in the future at 
which point this benefit would become important. In any event, I still consider it gives a good 
indication of the value of benefits Miss B was considering giving up. Its also the case that 
the regulator required D C Financial to provide it and so deems it a necessary and important 
part of the decision-making process.
Overall, Im not persuaded that, even if the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead and Miss B had 
moved with the scheme to the PFF where her benefits were reduced, she was likely to be 
able to improve on those benefits by transferring to a personal pension. In my view, by 
transferring her pension it was likely Miss B would end up, at best, with retirement benefits of 
broadly the same as those available to her from the DB scheme at age 60. So based on this 
alone, I dont think a transfer was in Miss Bs best interests.
But I accept that financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as 
D C Financial has argued in this case. There might be other considerations, which mean a 
transfer is suitable, despite providing broadly the same benefits. Ive considered below 
whether such other reasons applied here.
Flexibility and income needs
One of the main reasons for the recommendation was to enable Miss B to access her 
pension flexibly from retirement age  her DB scheme lacked flexibility.
But I dont think Miss B knew with any certainty whether she required flexibility in retirement. 
And in any event I dont think she needed to transfer her DB scheme benefits to achieve it.
 
Crucially Miss B was only 31 at the time of the advice. And based on what Ive seen, she 
didnt have concrete retirement plans  in fact I dont think she had any real plans. And I 
think this is supported by whats recorded in the advice paperwork where it says Miss B 
wanted to retire as soon as she can. I think this would likely be the answer most people 
would give if asked  I dont think it was a specific objective of Miss Bs. I think Miss Bs 
retirement was so far in the future that she couldnt reasonably have had any firm plans. As 
Miss B still had the majority of her working life in front of her before she could think about 
accessing her pension, I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about 
transferring out of the DB scheme. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for 
Miss B to give up her guaranteed benefits now when she didnt reasonably know what her 
needs in retirement would be.
Miss B might have wanted to retire early, but she already had this option available to her - 
she didnt have to transfer out to achieve this. I accept that Miss B could not take her DB 
scheme benefits flexibly. Although she could choose to take a cash lump sum and a reduced 
annual pension, Miss B had to take those benefits at the same time. But again, nothing 
indicates that Miss B had a need to take a cash lump sum and defer taking her income, or to 
vary her income throughout retirement. It strikes me that flexibility was simply a feature or 
consequence of transferring to a personal arrangement rather than a genuine objective.
Despite there being no apparent need for flexibility, importantly Miss B was contributing to 
her workplace DC pension scheme, as was her employer, meaning that a total of 16% of 
Miss Bs salary was being invested here. Given Miss B had the potential for another 28 
years or more of pension contributions ahead, this had the potential to be worth a not 
insignificant amount. At Miss Bs current income, it had the potential to be worth around 
£80,000. The nature of a DC scheme means this already provided Miss B with flexibility  
she wasnt committed to take these benefits in a set way. She couldve taken lump sums as 
and when required and adjusted the income she took from it according to her needs. So, I think if Miss B retained her DB pension, this combined with her new workplace pension, 
wouldve given her the flexibility to retire early - if thats what she ultimately decided  and 
would meet her income needs.
So in any event, Miss B didnt need to transfer her DB scheme benefits at this stage to a 
personal pension arrangement in order to achieve flexibility in retirement. Of course, if 
Miss B did in fact have a greater need for flexibility beyond that which she already had, I 
think this couldve been explored closer to her intended retirement age, which as Ive said 
was still many years away. And because Miss B had taken the decision to opt into the 
BSPS2, she wouldve retained the ability to transfer out nearer to retirement, if indeed it was 
required. This ought to have been explained by D C Financial.
Turning to Miss Bs income need  its clear that Miss B didnt know what her income need in 
retirement would be and theres no evidence that D C Financial carried out a detailed income 
and expenditure in retirement analysis to determine it. D C Financial appears to have 
concluded that a figure of somewhere between 50% and 60% of Miss Bs pre-retirement 
income would be sufficient. As I said above, theres nothing to indicate that Miss B needed 
variable income. And in my view, nothing to indicate that the income from the BSPS2 or the 
PPF (if the new scheme didnt go ahead) wouldnt have provided Miss B with at least a solid 
income foundation upon which her other provision could supplement, to meet her overall 
need.
For example, at age 60 under the BSPS2 Miss B would receive an annual pension of 
£4,103. This rose to £5,525 at age 65. Given Miss B didnt have any known need for a cash 
lump sum, I think Miss B couldve likely met her income needs until her state pension 
became payable at age 68. I think any shortfall couldve been met by accessing income 
and/or by taking her tax-free cash entitlement from her DC scheme. Miss B wouldve likely 
had a not insignificant pension to draw on flexibly, as and when she needed, to top up her 
income or take additional lump sums. So, I think its also the case that Miss B didnt have to 
sacrifice flexibility in retirement by opting into the BSPS2.
While Miss B had already decided to opt into the BSPS2, if it hadnt gone ahead, she 
wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. At age 60 Miss B wouldve been entitled to a 
pension of around £4.066 a year. This was lower than the pension shed be entitled to under 
the BSPS2. But I dont think it was substantially lower such that it shouldve made a 
difference to the recommendation. As Ive said above, Miss B wouldve had her DC scheme 
to draw on until her state pension became payable. So, I still think Miss B couldve met her 
needs in retirement even if the scheme moved to the PPF.
Overall, I think Miss B couldve likely met her income needs in retirement through the BSPS2 
or the PPF based on a retirement age of 60. So, I dont think it was in Miss Bs best interests 
for her to transfer her pension just to have flexibility, that Im not persuaded she really 
needed. 
  
Death benefits
The suitability report said that the inflexible death benefits under the DB scheme concerned 
Miss B and that she felt it was important to be able to pass on any unused pension to her 
family. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Miss B. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Miss B might have thought it was a good 
idea to transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension because of this, the priority here 
was to advise Miss B about what was best for her retirement provisions. 
A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement - not as a legacy provision 
tool. So I dont think the potential for greater or different death benefits should have been 
prioritised over this and Miss Bs security in retirement. And I say potential, because the sum 
left on Miss Bs death was dependent on investment returns  so if she lived a long life, 
and/or investment performance was lower than expected, there may not have been a large 
sum to pass on anyway.
D C Financial recorded that Miss B had generous death-in-service cover through her 
employer if she died before retirement. So she already had lump sum death benefits 
available, which she could nominate her partner to receive if she hadnt already done so. 
And it also knew that Miss B was paying into the DC pension scheme, so I see no reason 
why she wouldnt have been able to nominate her partner and/or children as beneficiaries of 
this plan too  again if she hadnt already done so. 
I can see that D C Financial noted in the suitability report that the option of life assurance 
had been considered but discounted because Miss B wanted to ensure her pension benefits 
werent lost rather than incur the added cost for an additional lump sum benefit. But D C 
Financials role wasnt to simply transact what Miss B thought she wanted  as I said above 
a pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. So I think that if Miss B 
genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for her family over and above that which was already 
available, and which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of her pension fund 
remained on her death, D C Financial shouldve instead properly explored additional life 
cover. The starting point here ought to have been to ask Miss B how much she ideally would 
like to leave to her family, after taking into account the above existing means  not just quote 
for the full transfer value. And this couldve been explored on a whole of life or term 
assurance basis, which was likely to be cheap to provide, particularly as Miss B was young 
and in good health.
In my view, this was the suitable way forward and what D C Financial ought to have 
ultimately recommended  I consider it wouldve met Miss B objective without risking her 
retirement income to achieve things.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Miss B. And I dont think D C 
Financial did enough to explore the alternatives available to Miss B to meet this objective.
Control and concerns about financial stability of BSPS
The suitability report records that Miss B was concerned about the DB scheme moving to the 
PPF.
I have no doubt that Miss B was concerned about her pension. There was a sense of 
general uncertainty and there was also lots of negative sentiment about the PPF. I think this 
is likely the reason Miss B sought advice in the first place and its possible that Miss B was considering transferring because of these concerns about her employer and what might 
happen. But I think to a greater degree this risk was already understood and accepted by 
Miss B, as shed already chosen to opt in to the BSPS2, knowing she would move to the 
PPF if the new scheme didnt go ahead.
In any event, it was D C Financials duty to give Miss B an objective picture and recommend 
what was in her best interests. I accept that the new BSPS2 scheme wasnt guaranteed to 
go ahead at the time of the advice. But at the time, the available information from the 
scheme trustees indicated that it would likely go ahead. And I think this is what D C Financial 
shouldve been clear with Miss B to help alleviate her concerns. 
In terms of Miss B specific concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF, despite the 10% 
reduction in starting benefits and the fact the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, 
importantly the income was still guaranteed. And the income available to Miss B through the 
PPF wouldve still provided a strong foundation towards the income she would likely need at 
retirement and she was unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out. So I think D C 
Financial ought to have specifically reassured Miss B that, even if there was a chance the 
BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, moving to the PPF was not as concerning as she thought or was 
led to believe. Miss B might not have been able to later transfer out of the PPF  but for the 
reasons Ive set out earlier, I dont think Miss B wouldve needed to, to achieve her goals.
Summary
I accept that Miss B was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that her concerns 
about her employer were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for 
higher or different death benefits on offer through a personal pension wouldve sounded like 
attractive features to Miss B. But as I said earlier, D C Financial wasnt there to just transact 
what Miss B might have thought she wanted. The advisers role was to really understand 
what Miss B needed and recommend what was in her best interests. I also accept that 
Miss B was told about the risks and signed a document to that effect. But the provision of 
information doesnt make an unsuitable recommendation suitable.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Miss B was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income, whether through the BSPS2 or the PPF. By 
transferring to a personal arrangement Miss B was, at best, likely to receive broadly the 
same overall retirement benefits at her preferred retirement age of 60. And I dont think there 
were any other particular or compelling reasons which would justify the transfer and 
outweigh this. So, I dont think it was in Miss Bs best interests for her to transfer her DB 
scheme to a personal pension at this time.
So, I think D C Financial shouldve advised Miss B that she should not transfer the benefits 
of her DB scheme to a personal pension arrangement and that her decision to opt into 
BSPS2 was suitable for her in the circumstances.
Of course, I have to consider whether Miss B would've gone ahead anyway, against D C 
Financials advice.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Miss B wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the BSPS against D C Financials advice. I say this because, while 
Miss B was motivated to transfer when she approached D C Financial, on balance, I still 
think Miss B wouldve listened to and followed D C Financials advice if things had happened 
as they should have. Miss B was an inexperienced investor who in my view neither 
possessed the necessary skill, knowledge nor confidence to go against the advice they were 
given. So, if D C Financial had provided her with clear advice against transferring out of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in her best interests, I think she wouldve accepted that 
advice.
Im not persuaded that Miss Bs concerns about her employer were so great that she 
wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise she 
had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for her or in her best interests. 
If D C Financial had explained that Miss B could meet all of her objectives without risking her 
guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Miss B 
would have insisted on transferring out of her scheme against D C Financials advice.
In light of the above, I think D C Financial should compensate Miss B for the unsuitable 
advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And as 
per the above, it is the benefits available to her through the BSPS2 that should be used for 
comparison purposes.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £400 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Miss B. 
So Ive also thought about whether its fair to award compensation for distress and 
inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish D C Financial  which is the job of the 
regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and practical impact this had on 
Miss B. Taking everything into account, including that I consider Miss Bs retirement 
provision is clearly of great importance to her, I think the unsuitable advice has caused her 
distress. So I think an award of £400 is fair in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Miss B whether she preferred any redress to be calculated now in 
line with current guidance or wait for the new guidance /rules to come into effect.
Miss B has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle her 
complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Miss B.A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Miss B, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for D C Financials unsuitable advice. 
Because Miss B had already opted into the BSPS2, if suitable advice had been given, this 
wouldve supported Miss Bs choice. So D C Financial should use the benefits offered by 
BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
D C Financial must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
transfers.
For clarity, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance, compensation should be 
based on a normal retirement age of 65 in this case. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Miss Bs acceptance of the decision.
D C Financial may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Miss Bs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, 
which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Miss Bs 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Miss Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Miss B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Miss B within 90 days of the date D C Financial receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes D C Financial to pay Miss B.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect D C Financial to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require D C Financial Limited 
to pay Miss B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
D C Financial Limited should also pay Miss B £400 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused in this matter.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
D C Financial Limited to pay Miss B any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
D C Financial Limited to pay Miss B any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
D C Financial Limited pays Miss B the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Miss B.
If Miss B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on D C Financial Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Miss B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Miss B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 February 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman