DRN-4458256
The complaint
Mr R complains about Scottish Widows Unit Trust Managers Limited (SWUTM). Hes 
unhappy with the performance and management of an investment he holds with them.
What happened
In 2022 Mr R became concerned about the performance of a fund hed invested in and 
initially raised his concerns with his broker (B1). He said, in summary:
He was unhappy with how much the value of the fund had decreased
He was concerned with who was supervising the fund manager as the investment 
was not performing as he expected
He thought that B1 were obstructing him from speaking to someone regarding the 
fund performance
B1 looked into the concerns that had been raised but didnt think theyd done anything 
wrong. They told Mr R he needed to contact SWUTM regarding his concerns about the fund. 
Mr R asked for our help in the matter and one of our investigators looked into the concerns 
hed raised.
The investigator made several attempts to get a response from SWUTM and eventually 
issued her opinion on the complaint. She thought that she hadnt seen anything to suggest 
that SWUTM had acted inappropriately in managing the fund. But she thought their delays in 
responding to Mr Rs concerns had caused him inconvenience and they ought to pay him 
£200 in compensation. 
Mr R accepted the investigators findings, but SWUTM didnt respond so the complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs concerns about the actions of B1 have been addressed in a separate complaint so 
this decision is solely about his concerns about SWUTM, specifically around the 
performance of the fund he was invested in and how they responded to his complaint. 
The fund - the Managed Growth Fund 4 Class L - was classed as medium risk fund and 
aimed to achieve capital growth by investing in other funds to achieve exposure to a wide 
range of investments. It was made up of several different asset classes, most of which were 
subject to volatility. This was necessary in order to seek better returns over the long term. It 
was noted that the value of the investment wasnt guaranteed and could fluctuate. Specific 
risks were listed in the Key Investor Information Document as:
Company shares ('equities') generally offer higher long term growth potential than 
some other asset classes. Values can fluctuate considerably. There's a greater risk 
you might not get back all of your money.
The value of a bond / fixed interest security could fall if the issuer's credit rating falls. 
Values are also likely to fall if interest rates rise (but increase when interest rates fall). 
In addition issuers might fail to make their income payments and/or repay capital.
The use of derivatives for Efficient Portfolio Management might not achieve the 
described outcomes and may result in greater fluctuations of the value of the Fund, 
however it is not intended that this will cause the risk profile of the Fund to change. 
Property values can go up or down. Property can be hard to sell, and values could 
fall if properties have to be sold quickly.
I appreciate Mr R is unhappy with the fund performance, but this isnt usually a valid basis 
for complaint. By their very nature, different funds will exhibit varying levels of performance 
and therefore rise and fall over time, so I am unable to say that poor performance means 
that a fund has been mismanaged. 
The decisions made by the fund managers may now seem to not have been the best 
decisions with the benefit of hindsight, but this doesnt mean that SWUTM have acted 
unfairly. Ive considered if the fund has been managed within the parameters that SWUTM 
set out and having done so, I havent seen sufficient evidence to conclude that they have 
acted incorrectly so I wont be asking them to do anything further in regard to this aspect of 
Mr Rs complaint.
But I agree with the investigator that SWUTM have caused Mr R inconvenience through their 
delays and lack of a response to his complaint. Mr R and our investigator made several 
attempts to get a response to his concerns without any success. Taking everything into 
account, I think £200 compensation is fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
Scottish Widows Unit Trust Managers Limited should pay Mr R £200 to compensate him for 
the inconvenience theyve caused him.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint. Scottish Widows Unit Trust Managers Limited should put 
things right by paying Mr R compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman