DRN-2473521
The complaint 
Mr P complains that Capital One (Europe) plc has used the compensation due to him from a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy to reduce his outstanding debt with it. 
Mr P took out a credit card with Capital One in 2004 and took out the PPI at the same time. 
The policy was cancelled in 2005. Mr P complained the PPI was mis-sold to him and in its 
final response in 2018, Capital One made an offer for the high level of unfair commission 
and profit it had received on the premium Mr P was charged for the policy. As Mr P wasnt 
told about the rate at which the commission was charged, it led to an unfair relationship. 
Capital One had to pay back to Mr P any commission or profit share that it had received that 
was more than 50% of the premium. 
This worked out to be £11.83. This included the excess commission part of the PPI premium 
itself and the excess associated interest charged because of it. But Capital One has used 
the compensation to reduce Mr Ps outstanding debt on the credit card.
Mr P says he was previously in an individual voluntary arrangement (IVA) but it had been 
completed. He said he had a letter from the IVA practitioner to say they no longer had any 
interest.
One of our adjudicators looked at this and concluded that Capital One had acted fairly.
Mr P remained unhappy and the complaint remained unresolved. So, the case has been 
passed to me to make a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Ive only considered the complaint about the commission and profit share 
Capital One got because of the PPI. I am unable to consider how the policy was sold as Im 
satisfied the complaint wasnt brought in time.
Mr P is complaining about two points  one being the fact that hes not received all the 
money he paid for PPI refunded and the other being able the fact Capital One has used his 
compensation to reduce his outstanding debt. Ill discuss each point in turn. 
Level of redress received
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), issued 
some new rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So, to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
Capital One said that the level of commission and profit share it received did create an unfair 
relationship. So, to put things right it offered to refund the extra Mr P paid each month 
because the commission and profit share it received was more than 50% of the cost of PPI 
premium. It also included 8% per year simple interest to compensate Mr P for any time he 
was out of pocket. 
Mr P says there have been other court cases in relation to non-disclosure of commission 
where consumers have received everything back. So, he thinks Capital One should refund 
all of the money paid for the PPI.
One of the things I need to take into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Mr Ps complaint is the law. But I also need to take into account 
relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to be good industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case Capital One has made Mr P an offer of compensation in relation to the level of 
commission it received that is in-line with the methods set out by the FCA. But Mr P wants 
Capital One to do something different. 
I have looked at the particular circumstances of Mr P and his complaint to see if theres 
anything about him that would mean the business should do something different  if the 
remedies set out in the FCAs rules dont lead to fair and reasonable redress for Mr P. But 
there isnt anything about Mr Ps complaint or circumstances that suggest the redress paid 
by Capital One isnt fair or reasonable.
In this case I think Capital Ones offer is a fair way to resolve this case.
Can Capital One use Mr Ps compensation to pay what he owes?
As explained above, Capital One has used the compensation to offset against money it is 
owed by Mr P. In doing this, I think Capital One did act fairly. I know Mr P will be 
disappointed with my decision, so Id like to explain how Ive reached the conclusion that I 
have.
Mr P considers that as the IVA has been completed and that the IVA practitioner didnt have 
any interest, then the compensation should be paid to him directly. 
When Mr P entered an IVA, the debts he owed werent legally cancelled or written off. 
Rather, they were frozen, and this is important to understand. So, the debts didnt cease to 
exist when the IVA was successfully completed.
Mr P entering an IVA and then successfully completing it, meant by law, he couldnt be 
chased for the debt. But the debt Mr P has with Capital One does still exist because it hasnt 
been paid back.
Capital One is still out of pocket for this money - it isnt pursuing Mr P for the debt. But it has 
accepted it owes Mr P money for the PPI compensation, so it owes him a debt. What it is 
doing is setting off the PPI compensation against the debt Mr P owed for his spending on 
the credit card account that still exists.There is in law, what is called the equitable right to set off, which allows people to set off 
closely connected debts. This means one person (A) can deduct from a debt they owe 
another person (B), money which that person (B) owes to them.
For this right of set-off to apply, I must be satisfied that there is a close connection between 
the PPI compensation and the outstanding debt. I must also consider whether it would be 
fair for Capital One to set-off in this way. Both tests must be satisfied for me to find that    
Capital One has an equitable right to set-off the PPI compensation against Mr Ps 
outstanding debt on his credit card account.
The PPI sold to Mr P was directly connected to his credit card. By using the right of set-off I 
have outlined above, Im satisfied the PPI compensation and the credit card debt are closely 
connected. They are both for the same account Mr P had with Capital One.
And despite Mr P completing his IVA, both parties owe each other money relating to the 
same account. So, it seems fair that one amount should be set against the other.
I empathise with Mr Ps position. Clearly, he thought he didnt owe anything after completing 
the IVA. But unfortunately, this isnt the case. And as I have said above, Capital One cant 
legally pursue him for the debt. 
Had the IVA practitioner had an interest then Mr Ps compensation would have been paid to 
the practitioner. And if they didnt hold an interest then Capital One could have used it to 
reduce the debt as they have done. Mr P would only receive anything, if there were some left 
over. Which in Mr Ps case there wasnt.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint about the commission. And I 
think it was fair for Capital One (Europe) plc to use the compensation it owed to Mr P to 
reduce his outstanding debt. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman