DRN-1487081
 
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC delayed sending a payment from her account which 
meant that she couldnt complete a property purchase on time.
What happened
Mrs P asked Lloyds to send a CHAPS payment for over £110,000 to her solicitor on Friday 
4 October 2019. The payment didnt arrive until well after 17:00. She says she tried to 
contact Lloyds during the day to find out what had happened to the money. And she says 
that by the time she received confirmation of receipt that was too late. Mrs P says she 
couldnt buy the property until 7 October 2019 - the next working day - and incurred penalty 
interest and fees. Lloyds said it didnt make a mistake as the money had arrived the same 
day.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Lloyds had shown that the 
payment was sent at 17:17 that day and that it hadnt made any commitment to Mrs P that it 
would arrive any earlier than it did. 
Mrs P didnt agree. She said that she had been misled and that a business day by law ran 
from 09:00 to 17:00. Lloyds internal processes were of no use to her. The features about 
CHAPS say it will be received on the same day and can be drawn against immediately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mrs P gave her payment instruction at 12:07 that day. And I can understand 
why she expected the payment to arrive in time for her to buy the property. But shes not 
said she was told by any member of Lloyds staff that the money would arrive either by 16:00 
or 17:00 as was needed here. So Im afraid I agree with our investigator that under the terms 
and conditions of the account all Lloyds committed to was that the payment would arrive the 
same day. That allowed for its processing time and any checks that needed to be made. And 
although I can see why Mrs P thought that a business day ended at 17:00 thats not the 
relevant time here. 
Mrs P has explained that she incurred additional costs. And I can see why shes unhappy to 
have paid penalty interest of £290.27 and a notice to complete fee of £250 on her purchase 
especially if all of that related only to this three day delay here. But I dont have a basis to 
find Lloyds made a mistake or should reasonably be required to pay her any compensation.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman