DRN-4152750
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited declined a claim he made on his 
employers income protection policy. 
What happened
Mr M was a member of his employers group income protection scheme. In April 2021 he 
became absent from work due to a back injury. Mr M attempted to return to work on a 
number of occasions but wasnt able to do so. His contract was terminated on medical 
grounds. Mr M claimed on the income protection policy. 
Aviva rejected Mr Ms claim as they didnt think there was enough medical evidence to show 
that he met the policy definition of incapacity. Mr M didnt agree but Aviva maintained their 
decision to decline the claim. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought 
Aviva had fairly declined the claim. Mr M didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review 
his complaint. Mr M said he disagreed that he could undertake his role as a delivery driver. 
And his back problems would make it impossible for him to fulfil any full-time role. He said he 
couldnt envisage working full or part time.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Mr M needs to 
demonstrate he has a valid claim under the policy, its not for Aviva to show that he doesnt. 
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint because I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to 
conclude Mr M didnt meet the policy definition of incapacity. I say that because: 
The available medical evidence was reviewed by Avivas Chief Medical Officer 
(CMO). The CMO concluded that Mr M could have done light delivery driving and 
gave examples of the type of work he may be able to do. He also noted Mr M hadnt 
been prescribed painkillers.
The CMO reviewed further medical evidence provided by Mr M. He said the medical 
evidence confirmed Mr M had arthritis in his back. The CMO didnt think this further 
evidence suggested Mr M couldnt work and again noted that painkillers and keeping 
active would be beneficial. 
I dont think its unreasonable for Aviva to rely on their CMOs opinion on the medical 
evidence. And I dont think theres any compelling or persuasive evidence to suggest 
that the CMOs opinion was unfair and unreasonable, based on the available 
evidence. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ms further comments, including what hes said about not 
being able to work. But, taking into account the available medical evidence, I dont 
think Avivas decision to decline the claim was unfair.   
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman