DRN-4342131
The complaint
Ms Y is unhappy with what Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited did after she made a 
claim on her legal expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms Y had an accident at work in 2010 and suffered injuries as a result. She used a solicitor 
(T) to take pursue a personal injury claim against those she thought were responsible for 
this. The claim was settled but Ms Y felt it had been undervalued as T hadnt obtained the 
right information (including an expert report) to assess the extent of her injuries. 
In 2017 she sought funding under her legal expenses insurance with RSA to bring a 
professional negligence claim against T. The matter was dealt with by one of RSAs panel 
solicitors. They thought there had been a breach of professional care by T because it hadnt 
instructed an appropriate expert. In order to determine if that had caused a loss to Ms Y they 
instructed an expert to assess what would have happened if that had been done. 
The report from that expert didnt evidence Ms Ys claim had been undervalued to the 
significant extent she thought it had. Ms Y strongly disagreed with the report. The panel firm 
had further discussions with the expert but he didnt change his overall conclusions. In 
response to a request from Ms Y the firm asked RSA if it would be prepared to fund another 
expert opinion but it didnt agree to do so. The panel firm didnt think the experts opinion 
was unreliable or obviously wrong. It advised Ms Y that she could obtain her own expert 
report but that would be at her cost. 
In 2022 Ms Y contacted RSA again. She now had a new diagnosis of her medical condition 
which she thought cast doubt on what the previous expert had said. There was some 
confusion over who at RSA should be responsible for dealing with the matter (and whether it 
was a new claim or not) which led Ms Y to refer the complaint to our service. RSA said the 
previous claim had been correctly turned down because it didnt have reasonable prospects 
of success. But it would review matters once it had received the file from the panel firm to 
see whether it should ask the firm to look at the further information Ms Y had now provided. 
Our investigator didnt think RSA needed to fund another expert report following the initial 
claim Ms Y made; the panel firm said they didnt have grounds to challenge the one that had 
been produced and didnt support instructing another expert. But she noted the firm hadnt 
provided a report on the claims prospects of success which specifically said the policy 
requirements in relation to this hadnt been met. However, as Ms Y had made clear she 
wasnt happy to proceed on the basis of the expert report that had been obtained and would 
be obtaining her own the claim wouldnt have progressed at that time in any case. 
As a result she didnt think RSA should be responsible for any solicitors fees Ms Y incurred 
after funding for her claim was withdrawn. But she thought RSA should review the evidence 
Ms Y had now provided (including the new expert report which she had by then obtained). 
If either the information Ms Y provided in July 2022 or the new expert report shed obtained 
changed the position on coverage it should consider reasonable legal costs Ms Y had 
incurred from either July 2022 or from the date the medical report was obtained (and pay 
interest at 8% on any costs refunded). And it should also pay Ms Y £150 for the 
inconvenience she was caused after she got back in touch with RSA in July 2022. 
RSA didnt agree. It said:
The fact Ms Y had now received a further diagnosis didnt mean the assessment carried 
out in 2017/2018 was incorrect. The panel firm had put further information to the expert 
and had extensive discussions about the case. It was entitled to rely on the advice the 
panel solicitors provided about this at the time which had been negative on prospects.
The panel solicitors had received an email from Ms Y which hadnt led them to change 
their initial assessment (and any claim against T was now likely to be out of time in any 
case). Any claim against the medical expert wasnt covered by their initial referral. And 
the firm werent prepared to act for Ms Y in any case.
Ms Y might now have a new medical report but that would need to be considered by a 
legal professional to see whether it was court compliant. And the case would need to be 
considered again in full to see if there were reasonable prospects of success. Legal 
advice would also be required on whether any steps Ms Y had taken to protect her 
position had prevented limitation being an issue
Funding had previously been withdrawn on receipt of a negative prospects assessment 
meaning the policy terms and conditions werent. So it should now be for Ms Y to fund 
and provide her own legal opinion on prospects. If that was positive RSA would consider 
reimbursing the cost of this
Ms Y didnt agree either. In summary she said 
RSA should cover the legal fees shed incurred after cover for her claim was withdrawn. 
Cover had wrongly been withdrawn because the panel firm hadnt properly checked the 
medical information about her case and the expert report it obtained wasnt fit for 
purpose. 
She explained in detail why she thought the issues with that report were obvious and so 
should have been apparent to the panel firm and to RSA. She didnt think the report was 
relevant to the claim she was making because it didnt address the key issues. And when 
cover was withdrawn she needed to take action to protect her position and prevent 
limitation expiring. 
She had a contractual relationship with RSA and it was responsible for the work it had 
sub contracted to the panel firm. So she thought it should be responsible for any failings 
on the part of that firm. She didnt think it had met its statutory responsibilities to ensure 
the goods and services supplied under her contract with it were of satisfactory quality.
And RSA had access to all of her medical information so should in any case have 
identified the issues with the expert report
The evidence shed now obtained, including her diagnosis and the further expert report, 
did show the claim had reasonable prospects of success. And the panel firm had told her 
that cover would be reinstated if she was able to provide a supportive report. So that 
should now take place. 
So I need to reach a final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say RSA has a responsibility to handle claims
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I appreciate Ms Y feels RSA should be responsible for the actions of the panel solicitors. 
Shes argued it sub contracted work to it. But what a panel firm does when carrying out its 
legal role isnt something I can consider. Thats because we can only consider the covered 
activities set out in our rules (the Dispute Resolution Rules or DISP). Those activities include 
regulated activities. And carrying out a contract of insurance is a regulated activity. Thats 
why we can consider what RSA did here. 
However, the actions of the solicitors acting in their legal capacity arent a regulated activity 
and dont fall within any of the other covered activities contained in our rules. So that isnt 
something we can look at. The solicitors are independent professionals with their own 
regulator and complaints procedures; Ms Y could potentially pursue any concerns she has 
about the action of the panel solicitors with the relevant body. 
What I can consider is whether there have been any failings on the part of RSA when 
handling the claim. And it does look like the panel firm had some responsibility for claims 
handling as they told Ms Y we have delegated authority from your Legal Expenses Insurer 
to make decisions in relation to your policy. Essentially this means that we are authorised to 
interpret your policy, make decisions and advise you on the scope of policy cover on your 
insurers behalf. So their actions while carrying out that role are something RSA is 
responsible for and are something I can (and have) considered. In this decision any 
references to RSA therefore include its agents and claims handlers when carrying out claims 
handling responsibilities. 
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Ms Ys policy. In commons with other legal 
expenses insurance policies it doesnt cover any claim where there is not a reasonable 
chance of you winning the case and achieving a reasonable outcome. And it also excludes 
legal proceedings where a reasonable estimate of your total legal expenses is greater than 
the amount in dispute. 
In relation to assessing whether a claim is likely to win it says in circumstances where we 
have chosen a representative to act on your behalf, we will pay legal expenses incurred for 
providing the initial assessment of the claim irrespective of the prospects of success or 
whether the claim is covered under this policy.
The policy also says if your representative wants to consult a barrister or expert witness, we 
will agree if we think it is reasonable. You must give us the name of the barrister or expert 
witness, and the reasons why you need one. But the policy doesnt cover legal expenses 
which apply to the period before we have agreed in writing to support your claim.
I appreciate Ms Y strongly believes RSA should have agreed funding for a second expert 
opinion given her dissatisfaction with what the first expert had said. But I dont think RSA 
acted unreasonably in declining to agree to that. Its clear that in response to the issues she 
raised the panel firm engaged with the expert and questioned him further on his conclusions. 
I can see that Ms Y had input into those discussions and commented on a detailed follow up 
letter prior to this being sent to the expert. And a solicitor at the panel firm subsequently 
spoke in detail with the expert to understand the rationale for his conclusions. Following that his advice, as set out in a letter to Ms Y in January 2019 was that the cost of 
obtaining a new medical opinion is not going to be paid for by your insurers because we are 
not going to be able say that [experts] opinions are unreliable or obviously wrong. And in a 
further letter the following month the panel solicitor reiterated my professional duty simply 
does not allow me to support the cost of instructing another expert in the hope that he or she 
produces an opinion which is more favourable.
Its not clear to me what RSA was told about that at the time. And if RSA didnt have that 
information I think it should have done more to question the position. But given the panel firm 
were clear that a further medical opinion wasnt required (and they couldnt support obtaining 
one) thats what theyd have told RSA if further questions had been asked. And under the 
terms of the policy cover is only provided for an expert witness if your representative wants 
to consult a barrister or expert witness. That wasnt the case here. 
Ms Y feels that expert opinion was obviously wrong and thats something RSA should have 
picked up on. But shes acknowledged her condition is complicated and problems relating to 
it are notoriously difficult to diagnose. I understand why she feels the expert didnt do his 
job properly but its clear the panel firm werent persuaded (having had detailed discussions 
with the expert) there were grounds to say his report was obviously wrong. 
And I wouldnt have expected RSA to carry out its own review of the medical evidence; that 
isnt something its qualified to do. The panel firm didnt feel, having consulted with the 
expert, that there werent grounds to challenge this opinion or request a further medical 
report. I think RSA could reasonably rely on their professional opinion in relation to this. 
However, while its a requirement of the policy that a claim is likely to win (and it doesnt 
cover claims which will cost more to pursue than the amount in dispute) I think RSA are 
wrong to suggest funding for the claim was withdrawn because it didnt have reasonable 
prospects of success; that isnt what the panel solicitors said. 
In fact their advice was that, on the basis of the expert report, there were grounds to argue 
there was a loss to Ms Y because the report acknowledged that a condition affecting her 
meant her injuries had taken longer to heal which could mean her claim had been under 
valued. The firm felt the impact was likely to be modest in comparison to how Ms Y felt shed 
been affected but said it was happy to ask an internal specialist to review that in more detail. 
I appreciate the outcome of that review could have been the claim didnt have reasonable 
prospects of success (as it would have included consideration of whether it was 
proportionate to pursue) but that hadnt been established when RSA stopped funding it. 
However, while RSA may have relied on the wrong ground to do so I dont think that makes 
a difference to Ms Ys overall position. The panel firm made clear her options were either to 
agree to the further review it had suggested or obtain an expert report that supported her 
position in relation to the loss she believed shed suffered. But obtaining that report would be 
at her own expense and RSA wouldnt provide further funding unless she obtained a 
supportive report. Ms Y confirmed in March 2019 that she would find her own expert. Given 
that I dont think there was a claim here that RSA needed to fund. 
I appreciate that meant Ms Y needed to engage her own solicitors to protect her own 
position in relation to limitation. And I understand why that was something she needed to do. 
But as the position on funding for her claim had been made clear to her, I dont see that or 
any legal costs she incurred between then and her further contact with RSA in July 2022 are 
something it should be responsible for. 
Ive gone on to think about what happened when Ms Y got back in touch with RSA and 
whether it should now consider the further evidence shes provided. RSA says the panel firm told it that an email it had received from Ms Y didnt make a difference to its previous 
assessment. However, its not clear what information that email contained and the solicitor 
doesnt give any more detailed rationale for his conclusions. In any case it doesnt appear 
Ms Y had the further medical report shes now obtained at that point. So I dont think RSA 
can rely on that email from the panel firm as a reason for not taking further action on the 
claim.
And the question of whether that report is court compliant isnt something that impacts 
whether Ms Ys claim should be accepted under the terms of her policy. Clearly if that report 
was to be used as part of legal proceedings it would need to be. But the question here is 
whether shes evidenced that the value of her claim is different (and greater) than the 
previous expert found. 
RSA says funding was previously withdrawn on the basis of a negative prospects 
assessment but Ive already established that isnt correct. The reason the claim didnt 
previously progress was because RSA werent prepared to fund a further medical opinion 
and Ms Y didnt want to move forward on the basis of the existing one. The panel firm said at 
the time in terms of taking things forward, if you want a more favourable expert opinion, I 
think you are only going to get this by instructing a dierent expert. I understand thats what 
Ms Y has now done and given the comments the panel firm made about policy coverage at 
the time I think its reasonable to expect RSA to review that report to see if it makes a 
difference. 
In addition, even if the claim had been turned down on the basis it didnt have reasonable 
prospects of success, wed normally expect an insurer to look again at any new information 
a consumer subsequently provided. And, if appropriate, refer it back to panel solicitors to see 
if it made a different to what theyd previously said. 
In this case I appreciate the panel firm have indicated that they wouldnt be able to act for Ms 
Y in future. Thats unfortunate but I dont think its fair Ms Y loses out on the opportunity to 
have the further evidence shes now provided considered as a result; I dont think she should 
be put in a worse position than another policyholder with the same circumstances because 
of a decision the panel firm has taken. 
However, while Ms Y has suggested cover should be reinstated on the basis of the 
information shes now provided I dont think thats appropriate. Its reasonable that RSA has 
the opportunity to get that assessed by a suitably qualified solicitor to see if it does make a 
difference to previous conclusions on the extent of the loss to Ms Y. 
I do agree RSA should have handled matters better when Ms Y got back in touch with it in 
July 2022. There does appear to have been avoidable confusion over who should be dealing 
with her claim. And RSA appears to have then forwarded the claim to the wrong claims 
handling agent. I think that will have caused Ms Y unnecessary inconvenience and I agree 
RSA should pay her £150 in recognition of that.   
Putting things right
RSA will need to arrange for the further information Ms Y now has (her diagnosis and a new 
medical report) to be reviewed by a suitably qualified solicitor. If that supports her position on 
the value of her claim and it continues to enjoy reasonable prospects of success it will need 
to provide funding for that subject to the other terms and conditions of her policy. 
In deciding whether the claim does have reasonable prospects of success RSA will of 
course be entitled to consider whether the steps Ms Y took to protect her position have 
prevented limitation being an issue.  If cover is to be reinstated I think its fair RSA should pay any reasonable solicitors costs Ms 
Y has incurred from the date that should have taken place. So if the information she 
provided in July 2022 is what makes a difference then that would be the date costs should 
be considered from. If its the further medical report shes now obtained it would be from 
when she provided that to RSA. 
And if any costs RSA are now responsible for are ones Ms Y has already paid then RSA 
should pay interest at 8% simple on those amounts from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement. 
RSA will also need to pay Ms Y £150 in recognition of the inconvenience she was caused by 
what it got wrong when she got back in touch with it in July 2022. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited will need to 
put things right by doing what Ive said in this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman