DRN-1674926
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD (formerly trading as Financial Insurance Company 
Limited) mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to Mr J. AXA didnt actually sell the 
policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1999 alongside a store credit account. Mr J 
was sold the policy in a meeting, at the same time he applied for the account.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr J disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
The credit agreement Mr J filled in and signed in the store has an option to select PPI. And I 
can see that he selected this option by signing in the place provided. I can also see that 
there was another option on the form for card protection. This option wasnt selected. 
Mr J says he was told he had to take the PPI to get his card. I accept that this could have 
been what the sales person told him. But this sale happened a long time ago and memories 
of such meetings do tend to fade over time. So I dont think it would be fair for me to 
conclude that this is what happened based solely on what Mr J thinks he remembers now. 
On balance, I think its more likely than not that Mr J actively decided he wanted the PPI and 
signed this section of the application form, knowing he could choose not to if he hadnt 
wanted it. But I can understand why he may not recall this now.
From what Ive seen, I dont think that AXA recommended the PPI to Mr J. This means it 
didnt have to ensure that it was suitable for him. But it did still need to give him enough 
information so that he could decide if it met his needs. I think its likely that AXA could have 
given Mr J better information about the policy than it did. But I dont think better information 
would have changed his mind about buying the policy. I say this because:
 
Mr J appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations.
 Other than statutory sick pay, Mr J doesnt seem to have had any other means of 
making his monthly repayments if he couldnt work. So I think he would have valued 
the extra security which the policy gave him if things went wrong.
 
I cant see any reason why the policy wouldnt have been affordable for Mr J. And as 
he paid the policys premiums monthly, he could have cancelled it if it no longer met 
his needs.
 
So I dont think that Mr J has lost out by anything that AXA may have done wrong when it 
sold him this policy.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr J has said about why he still thinks the policy was mis-
sold. But Im afraid this hasnt changed my opinion that his complaint shouldnt be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint against AXA France IARD . 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman