DRN-2589388
The complaint
Mr C complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Moneybarn Limited (Moneybarn). He also says the vehicle was too expensive. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr C. The car here was 
around eight years old and had completed about 58,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect some wear and tear to be present.
Mr C first reported issues to Moneybarn on 6 November only a few weeks after hed taken 
receipt of the car. By the time the independent inspection was completed hed completed 
2,416 miles in the vehicle. The independent inspector noted that the ABS system was 
activating unnecessarily; the brake pedal was spongy and there was a snapped brake bleed 
nipple. He didnt think any of the problems he had identified could be said to have been 
present when the car was supplied to Mr C  the point at which Moneybarn were responsible 
for the cars quality.
He didnt elaborate any further about why he thought these faults were unlikely to have been 
present when the car was supplied. So, Ive considered each of these faults along with the 
paint work issues, oil leak and loose bolts Mr C also complained to Moneybarn about in 
November 2019; some of which he fixed himself.
ABS 
Mr C has explained he reported this issue to Moneybarn in November 2019. Im not 
persuaded by the independent engineers view that it wasnt present when the car was 
supplied. Hes provided no reasoning for that and as Mr C had the car for a very short time 
before he noticed the issue I think its much more likely that the problem was present when 
the car was supplied than not. So, I think it is fair for Moneybarn to repair this fault for Mr C.
the oil leak
Mr C provided photographs of the leak and as he complained about it so soon after taking 
receipt of the car I think its likely it was present at the point of supply. But Mr C has repaired 
the problem so I think a fair resolution to this issue would be for Moneybarn to refund any 
costs Mr C can evidence he paid in relation to this repair; such as replacement parts.
the spongy brake pedal and the broken bleed nipple
Mr C has explained that he did some work to the brakes. In those circumstances I dont think 
I have enough evidence to support his assertion that the damage to the bleed nipple was 
present when the car was supplied or that the brakes were spongy when supplied. I think it 
seems likely those issues would occur during a repair and I think a spongy brake pedal 
would have been noted during the initial test drive and that Mr C, especially as an 
experienced mechanic, would have asked the business to fix that before he took receipt of 
the car. So, I dont think it would be fair to ask Moneybarn to take any further action in 
relation to these faults.
paintwork faults
Mr C says the paint on the rear door and wing is of poor quality and the independent 
inspector noted the poor paint quality too. But the relevant legislation explains that a 
business cant be held responsible for quality problems that would have been evident to the 
consumer when he or she inspected the car before the finance agreement was agreed. And 
here I think that was the case. I think the paint runs evidenced in the photographs Mr C has 
provided would have been clear to him before he agreed to take receipt of the vehicle. So, 
Im not asking Moneybarn to take any action about these issues.
loose wishbone fastenings
I can also see that Mr C was concerned that the wishbone bolts were not secured on his car 
and that he needed to tighten them. As the work was completed by Mr C before the 
independent inspection I have not been provided with sufficient information to demonstrate 
there was a fault when the car was supplied, and Im not asking Moneybarn to take any 
further action in relation to this issue.
the price of the carMr C thinks he was overcharged for the car, especially as so much work was required to it. 
But Moneybarn had nothing to do with the price that was being charged. They were simply 
asked to finance the amount that Mr C agreed to pay the dealership for the vehicle. So, I 
dont think it would be fair to hold them accountable for any overcharging, even if this could 
be established.
Putting things right
Moneybarn should repair the fault with the ABS and refund any costs Mr C can evidence that 
relate to the repair he had to carry out to resolve the oil leak. 
Mr C has been inconvenienced by these matters as hes had to escalate a complaint to this 
service which I think could reasonably have been resolved earlier and hes had to report 
problems to the dealership and attend an independent inspection. In the circumstances, I 
think Moneybarn should pay him £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Moneybarn Limited to:
repair the fault with the ABS;
refund any costs Mr C can evidence that relate to the repair he had to carry out to 
resolve the oil leak;
pay Mr C £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman