DRN-3320391
The complaint
Ms E is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has declined to consider her claim without 
further evidence from her to substantiate it. Shes also unhappy with the service she 
received from UKI.
Any reference to UKI includes all its agents.
What happened
Ms E has a travel insurance policy alongside her current account. This is an annual policy
which is underwritten by UKI.
Ms E booked a trip in August 2019 and her intended travel dates were from 12 March 2020
to 29 March 2020. Flights and accommodation were booked separately. She travelled to her
destination on 12 March 2020.
On 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO 
formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential
international travel due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
On 21 March 2020, the government of the country where Ms E has travelled to had
announced that all international flights were to be suspended with effect from 23 March
2020.
Ms E was due to return on 29 March 2020 (her booking was scheduled for 28 March 2020
and was an overnight flight due to arrive in the UK on 29 March 2020) but due to the travel
restrictions that were in place, the return flight was cancelled. She says she found it difficult
to book a return flight and to also return to the UK due to the restrictions that were in place in
the country shed travelled to.
Ms E submitted an online travel insurance claim to UKI in May 2020. She didnt
hear back from UKI, so she called its helpline on 8 June 2020. It advised that Ms E could 
make a claim under the travel delay section of her policy. It also advised Ms E to provide 
proof of the costs shed incurred for her accommodation and proof of the communication 
shed had with the FCDO.
Between 9 June 2020 and 13 June 2020, UKI tried contacting Ms E by email and phone. It
advised her of the next available dates for the flights to return home and also to call the
helpline. It asked her to provide proof to substantiate her claim. Ms E remained in the
country she had travelled to. She stayed in the same hotel throughout and left the hotel on
18 September 2020. She returned to the UK on 19 September 2020.
Upon her return Ms E contacted UKI and provided information in regard to her claim. UKI 
said it needed further information which was outstanding, and this was necessary in order to
assess the claim.
Unhappy with UKI, Ms E made a complaint because of the poor service she says she
received. She said she had problems reaching anyone on the phone from March to May
2020 and had to therefore make an online claim. She managed to speak to UKI in June
2020, but she said the agent was unhelpful in getting her to return to the UK and she kept
being asked for information that shed already submitted, which caused further confusion.
UKI responded and said it hadnt made any errors in the claims process. Its helpline tried to
contact Ms E many times by phone and by email. And, it couldnt progress the claim as it
hadnt received all the supporting documents it required under the cancellation or curtailment
section of the policy. 
Ms E was unhappy with UKIs response and brought the complaint to this service. Our
investigator looked into the complaint. He upheld it partially as he thought UKI was entitled to
request information in relation to a claim and that was in line with the terms and conditions of
Ms Es policy. He said UKI confirmed it was willing to consider the claim under the missed,
delayed or abandoned departure section of her policy even though her extended stay isnt
an insured event under her policy.
Our investigator thought this was fair and was subject to Ms E providing the relevant
supporting information UKI had requested. In regard to how the claim has been handled, our
investigator recommended UKI offer Ms E £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused in
sending inaccurate emails and requesting duplicate information.
Ms E disagreed with the investigator and asked for the complaint to be referred to an
ombudsman. So, it was passed to me.
I could see Ms E provided comprehensive responses to our investigators findings. 
I confirmed that by not repeating each and every point here, Im not in any way demeaning 
those responses. For clarity, I summarised her points as follows:
UKI and our investigator used incorrect policy terms and conditions to assess the 
claim. This has caused confusion and delays. The correct policy terms and 
conditions are the January 2019 document as she booked her trip in August 2019 
and therefore this one would apply in her claim. The November 2019 policy 
document used is incorrect.
Based on the January 2019 policy terms and conditions, the sections that apply in 
her case are Catastrophe, Curtailment and Abandonment.
By October 2020, Ms E had sent UKI all documents evidencing the costs shed 
incurred but shes continuously been asked by UKI to provide information even when 
the relevant information has been sent.
She doesnt accept £50 as a compensation payment for all the distress, 
inconvenience and delays caused by UKI. She doesnt think this is fair or reflective of 
whats happened in the handling of this claim.
She didnt choose to continue her trip but was unable to return to the UK on the flight 
she had pre-booked. Therefore, as she wasnt able to return to the UK, she had no 
option but to incur the additional accommodation expenses. The earliest she could 
return to the UK was September 2020 as thats when the government of that country 
released the travel restrictions that were in place until then.
I issued my provisional decision on 28 January 2022 to both parties.
I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Additionally, I appreciate Ms E feels strongly about how the claim has been assessed. I can
also see shes taken the time to provide comprehensive information to us. So, Id like to
reassure her that while I wont be responding to each and every point, I have read all her
submissions.
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Ms Es policy and whether there was an
insured event and therefore whether a claim could be made under the policy.
I understand there was some contention about which policy document has been used for this
claim by UKI and our investigator. For the purposes of this provisional decision, I will refer to
the January 2019 document in this decision as this is the document that both UKI and Ms E
have referred to and agree is the one that applies because the trip was booked in August
2019.
Should the claim be considered under the terms and conditions of the policy?
I have considered Ms Es comments that she believes the claim should be considered under
Section B: Travel delay and abandonment, Section E: 1. Curtailment (cutting a journey short)
and Section E: 2. Catastrophe cover.
Ive also considered UKIs response that it believes the claim can only be considered under
Section B: Travel delay and Abandonment, 1. Delay, even though the situation Ms E found
herself in has no cover under her policy. UKI says this is because the trip was extended and 
therefore isnt an insured event. But even so, it says the facts havent been communicated to 
Ms E previously and the claim has been ongoing for some time. So UKI says its willing to 
consider the claim under the Delay section subject to the policy limit of £1,000 and subject 
to the full accommodation invoice being provided to it.
Ill start by looking at page 24 of the policy document, Section B  Travel Delay and
abandonment. This says:
What you are covered for
1. Delay
We will pay you up to £1,000 per insured person after the first four hours delay of the
pre-booked flight, sailing, train or coach journey for additional expenses such as
accommodation, travel, meals and refreshments which arise because the transport you
have checked-in for is delayed  it doesnt cover the cost of telephone calls.
2. Abandonment
We will pay you up to £5,000 per insured person, if you decide to
i. abandon the journey and return to your home address, where we will pay for
journey deposits and costs, or
ii. travel to your pre-booked destination by alternative means, where we will pay
additional expenses such as accommodation, travel (to a similar standard as you had
already booked and paid for), meals and refreshments because your pre-bookedflight, sailing, train or coach journey from the UK is delayed for at least:
- six hours, on journeys of four nights or less, or
- twelve hours, on journeys of five nights or more
or you are prevented from starting your journey or returning to the UK because
airspace has been closed on the orders of an official Government or regulatory body for
more than 24 hours following your scheduled departure.
With regard to the Delay section, Im not persuaded the trip was delayed. Ms E hadnt
checked-in at the airport and the flight wasnt delayed, and as we know, it was cancelled.
And, with regard to the Abandonment section, the trip wasnt abandoned. Whilst I accept
that airspace in the country Ms E had been closed, there were still alternatives available for
Ms E to have been able to return home between March 2020 and September 2020. Ms E
hasnt shown that she took the opportunity to return to the UK at the earliest chance
available (for example, the special flights arranged by the UK government to repatriate UK
citizens back to the UK). So, Im not persuaded that this section applies either.
I now turn to Section E: 1. Curtailment (cutting a journey short). Having considered this, Ms 
E didnt cut her trip short and return to the UK. The trip was extended and therefore this
section doesnt apply in the situation of what actually happened in the circumstances here.
Ms E says Section E: 2. Catastrophe cover also applies in her situation. This says:
2. Catastrophe cover
If, during your journey, you can no longer stay at your pre-booked and prepaid
accommodation or are unable to return to the UK by your pre-booked and pre-paid
method of travel because of:
 fire;
 storm;
 lightning;
 landslide;
 avalanche;
 explosion;
 hurricane;
 earthquake;
 volcanic eruption;
 flood;
 tidal wave or tsunami;
 medical epidemic or pandemic;
 civil unrest;
 outbreak of food poisoning within your accommodation.
We will pay you up to £5,000 per insured person for the necessary extra travel and
accommodation expenses to allow you to continue with your journey to a similar
standard as you had pre-booked, or if you choose to return to the UK, we will pay
you up to £5,000 per insured person for your unused travel and accommodation
expenses, including additional transport costs of up to £500 per insured person if
you were within Europe or £1,000 per insured person if you were outside Europe,
to return to your home address earlier than originally planned.
I appreciate that Ms E says she didnt return to the UK because of the Covid-19 pandemic so
she would benefit from this section of the policy.
This section says there is provision of cover in the case of a catastrophe when either the
policyholder can no longer continue staying at the pre-booked accommodation or returnhome on the pre-booked method of travel. And it applies if this happened during a journey. A
journey is one that begins and ends at your home address as defined in the policy
document. And, additionally, cover is provided to allow the policyholder to continue their 
journey in alternative accommodation or return home earlier than originally planned within
the context of the trip that was originally planned. Ms Es trip extended for an additional six
months before she returned to the UK and theres information to suggest she could have
returned earlier but hasnt provided reasons why she didnt except that she couldnt return
because the restrictions werent lifted in that country until September 2020. The information
thats been presented about flights being available in between March 2020 and September
2020 confirms otherwise.
I agree that Covid-19 pandemic would be covered under the policy. But Miss E extended her
trip and so extended her stay at the same hotel. She didnt return home earlier than originally
planned  she completed her stay at the pre-booked accommodation and then extended it.
Her original dates of travel were from 12 March 2020 to 29 March 2020. I therefore dont
think this section applies in Ms Es circumstances. She incurred costs because the trip was
extended beyond 29 March 2020 and there is no cover for this event that she found herself
in. Ms E is claiming for costs not to continue her journey but to extend it and Im not
persuaded this section applies.
This is because Ms E hasnt shown she made attempts to return to the UK before
September 2020. This cover is afforded in situations where an insured person isnt able to
return to the UK by the pre-booked method of travel. In Ms Es case that would be the return
flight that was scheduled on 28 March 2020. While Ms Es flight was cancelled and she 
therefore wasnt able to return to the UK on that date, she would have been expected to
either show that she had no option but to return no earlier than September 2020 or that, in
the meantime, shed made every attempt to return but had failed on every occasion. As Ive
mentioned above, there were special flights arranged by the UK government to assist UK
citizens to return home. I havent seen any evidence from Ms E that shows she did any of
the above to return to the UK. The only evidence Ive seen are the invoices shes provided
for the accommodation she stayed in from March 2020 to September 2020. In the absence
of such evidence, I cant safely say that this section applies as even though there were
alternative options for return available, Ms E hasnt shown she made attempts to take those
options. Im not persuaded therefore that UKI should be responsible to pay under this
section of the policy.
All in all, Im minded in thinking that Ms E has no cover under her policy for the situation she
found herself in. But I can see that because of the handling of the claim, UKI has said its 
willing to consider the claim under the Delay only section of the policy. Im satisfied this is
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. UKI require a full copy of the
accommodation invoice Ms E received from the hotel in order to consider the claim under
this section.
UKIs handling of the claim
Firstly, I can see that this claim has been ongoing for a long time. UKI has accepted this isnt
the service it should provide and is therefore willing to consider the claim under the Delay
section of the policy even though the event isnt covered. Im minded in agreeing that this is
fair in the circumstances.
Ive also considered that delays have been caused on this complaint. I dont think either
party has been particularly helpful in getting this complaint resolved proactively. I note that
UKI has accepted there have been delays in handling the claim  mainly in respect of
requesting documents even when Ms E had already sent them to UKI. Also, Ms E said she
had felt the information that UKI was requesting was at times upsetting and unnecessary.UKI apologised for this but said that the information was required in order to assess the
claim properly.
When Ms E logged her online claim in May 2020, I can see UKI has tried to contact her
several times by phone but from Ms Es perspective, she wasnt always able to communicate
in this way because of the distance and time differences of the country she was in. UKI also
sent her emails and I dont agree that Ms E hadnt responded to all of them. She attempted
to send in the information she could.
During her call with the UKI advisor on 8 June 2020, Ms E said she didnt return when the
FCDO advised travellers to return to the UK as her flight home was booked on business
class and she was waiting to hear from her flight provider. She had no firm confirmation
about what the flight providers intentions were for her return flight scheduled for 28 March
2020. She says she didnt receive that confirmation from her flight provider until after she
returned to the UK in September 2020. And on 29 March 2020, Ms E looked for an
alternative flight but by this time there were no alternative commercial flights available.
While I appreciate Ms E was waiting to hear from her flight provider as shed booked
business class, theres no evidence or information that she attempted to return to the UK. I
note she had been in touch with the FCDO website and signed up for email notifications on
23 March 2020. But theres no evidence to suggest she made further attempts to contact the
FCDO or find an alternative to return to the UK. On 23 March 2020, the UKs FCDO had
advised all international travellers to return to the UK so at the very least I would have
expected her to start seeking alternative options for returning home.
Theres no further information from Ms E to show any attempts she might have made to
return to the UK when the advice came into place from the FCDO. I would have expected to
see Ms E to show that shes made every attempt to return to the UK between 23 March 2020
and her due date of 28 March 2020. And the government of the country she was in had also
announced on 21 March 2020 that they would be closing their airports for international flights
from 23 March 2020.
Ive also not seen evidence from Ms E to show that she tried to return to the UK between
March 2020 to September 2020. She submitted a claim online on 1 May 2020. But in her
correspondence thereafter theres no mention of why she hadnt tried to use the service
provided by the UK government to return UK citizens on the special flights scheduled by the
government from 29 May 2020 to 8 June 2020 and any further such service. Ms E hasnt told
us why she didnt manage to get onto one of these flights back. Having been in contact with 
the FCDO, she should have then received information from them that flights had been
arranged for returning to the UK by the government.
In terms of how the claim has been handled, I agree with the investigator that £50
compensation is fair and reasonable for the service provided to Ms E. I agree UKI could
have handled the claim better, but I can see its apologised. Equally, I also think that both
parties could have been more proactive in resolving the issues.
Provisional conclusion
Overall, there is absence of information from Ms E about what attempts she made to return
to the UK between March 2020 to September 2020. Its not clear from the information shes
provided why she continued to remain in the country when there were provisions made by
the UK government to repatriate UK citizens. So, ultimately, as it stands, she has no cover
for the situation she found herself in as none of the sections under her policy unfortunately
allow for cover in her situation.However, given that UKI is willing to assess the claim under the Delay section of the policy,
Im minded to think thats fair and reasonable subject to the policy limits and subject to
providing the information thats required for this. And, I think £50 is fair compensation for the
service provided by UKI in handling the claim.
Ms E responded to my provisional decision. There are points in her response which I have 
already considered and so I dont propose to repeat those again. Those which I think require 
further clarification or reiteration, I will cover in the section below.
UKI responded only by asking for evidence of the invoices from Ms E. Our investigator 
forwarded these to UKI. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I mentioned above there are points which already formed part of Ms Es submissions and I 
confirm that I considered these when I issued my provisional decision. So I dont propose to 
repeat my findings on what Ive already said.
Ms E refers to FCA guidance of 2020. Shes submitted her comments on this guidance prior 
to my provisional decisions. I confirm I have already taken this guidance into account along 
with any other relevant industry guidance.
Ms E also refers to guidance from the FCDO (formerly FCO) and how Ive interpreted and 
understood this:
On 21 March 2020, the government of the country where Ms E has travelled to had 
announced that all international flights were to be suspended with effect from 23 
March 2020.
Ms E says the country she stayed in banned all international flights from 23 March 2020 to 
4 September 2020. I appreciate that and while I have already covered this in my provisional 
decision, for the sake of completeness, Id like to reiterate the point I made. Theres 
information in the file that there were flights arranged by the UK government to repatriate UK 
citizens to return home before 18 September 2020. Ive not seen any evidence from Ms E 
that she attempted to return home until 18 September 2020. I understand the airline 
cancelled her flight home because of airport closure and because there was a pandemic. But 
the flight wasnt delayed, it was cancelled altogether. So while there might have been a ban 
in travel, there was still an opportunity for Ms E to use the service offered by the UK 
government and as she hasnt shown to have done this, I cant reasonably ask UKI to cover 
a claim for a trip that was extended. And, I cant reasonably say that UKI should be made 
responsible for the stay that was extended by Ms E.
In regard to the cancellation section of the policy, Ms E has asked why this has not been 
considered. I confirm this was because she wasnt able to provide evidence that she tried to 
return home before 18 September 2020. Her stay was extended.  No further evidence was 
provided to me in her response to my provisional decision, therefore I agree with UKI that 
the claim cant be considered under the cancellation section of her policy. 
I refer to Ms Es comments regarding the sections of the policy which I have provided my 
provisional findings on. Ms E hasnt raised anything new that I havent already considered, 
and I therefore dont propose to comment on these further. Ms E has also said UKI has at no point declined her claim. I understand and Id like to clarify. 
UKI has declined to the point that unless Ms E can provide the supporting evidence its 
asked for, it cannot agree to pay the claim. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that the circumstances Ms E has found herself in provide cover 
under her travel policy. However, given that UKI is willing to assess the claim under the 
Delay section of the policy, Im satisfied thats fair and reasonable subject to the policy limits 
and subject to Ms E providing the information thats required for this. And, I think £50 is fair 
compensation for the service provided by UKI in handling the claim.
Putting things right
UKI should now do the following:
UKI should now assess and pay the claim under the Delay section of Ms Es policy 
subject to the policy limits and subject to the evidence being provided by Ms E, if UKI 
doesnt already have it. 
It should apply 8% simple interest to amount paid from the date of the claim to the 
date the payment is made.
It should make a compensation payment of £50 to Ms E.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partially uphold Ms Es complaint against U K Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman