DRN-4222722
The complaint
Mr J complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with his motorhome insurance claim. 
AXA are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. Much of this complaint concerns the 
actions of their appointed agents (approved repairers). As AXA have accepted they are 
accountable for the actions of their agents, in my decision, any reference to AXA should be 
interpreted as also covering the actions of their appointed agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr J and AXA. In my decision, Ill 
focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mr J had a motorhome insurance policy with AXA. In July 2022 he had an accident involving 
a deer. He registered a claim against his insurance policy. AXA accepted the claim and 
arranged for repairs to take place. The initial repairs werent to Mr Js satisfaction and he 
raised a complaint about this and the general service provided.
AXA accepted there were issues with the repairs following an inspection of the motorhome 
by an appointed agent of theirs. As Mr Js relationship with the initial repairer had 
deteriorated, he requested that AXA authorise a repairer of his choosing. AXA agreed to this 
and the repairs were fully completed by February 2023.
Mr J referred his complaint to our Service for an independent review. AXA then made an 
offer of £400 to recognise the impact their actions had on Mr J. Our Investigator 
recommended that this be increased to £600. As Mr J didnt accept, the complaint was then 
referred to me for a decision.
I recently sent both parties a copy of my provisional, intended findings. As the deadline for 
responses has now passed, Ive considered the complaint for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision and accepted my intended findings. 
Therefore, Ive included my findings from that decision below and they form the basis of this, 
my final decision. 
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party. Although I will not comment or make a finding on every single point of 
dissatisfaction Mr J has raised, Ive considered the overall impact on him here. As the 
deciding Ombudsman, I will decide whats important and what needs specifically addressed.
This doesnt mean I have overlooked parts of Mr Js complaint - it simply reflects the informal 
nature of our Service as an alternative dispute resolution scheme.
Its clear that Mr J has been extremely invested in both the claim and this subsequent 
complaint afterwards. Whilst Ive noted his comments on file about wanting to speak to the 
deciding Ombudsman, I dont think thats necessary  given the evidence I have on file. In 
any case, it would typically be unusual for an Ombudsman to need to speak directly to either 
the complainant or respondent - as it helps us remain impartial.
I want to highlight to AXA that it appears theyve not fully recognised the specific impact on 
Mr J here. This was not just a car/vehicle that Mr J used to get around in - this was 
effectively a second home to him and his wife after having only bought it as new only a few 
months before this claim event. Mr J is at a point in his life where he wants to be able to 
relax and enjoy things and the flexibility/freedom having a motor home offered. As a direct 
result of AXAs actions (the initial repairer) he was unfairly deprived of the use and 
enjoyment of his motor home for an unacceptable amount of time. AXA should read this 
point in conjunction with my remedy outlined at the end of this decision.
Its clear that the initial repairs failed to meet even minimum expectations and the photos 
provided support this. This will have been massively disappointing for Mr J. Its positive that 
AXA authorised a second repairer of Mr Js choosing, but the AXA approved repair report 
dated 27 October 2022 alongside the substantial remedial works (and costs) carried out by 
the second repairer really just supports what a poor job AXAs initial repair agents carried 
out.
As highlighted above, I wont be making a finding on every point of contention, but I find 
there were various failings in AXAs handling of the claim. For example:
AXA accepted that there was an initial one month delay after they failed to arrange 
collection of the motorhome in September 2022.
When the repair was initially happening, Mr J was the pro-active party chasing up 
what was happening.
The issue of the additional/unexpected mileage when the motorhome was initially 
returned was poorly handled. Mr J had to wait a number of weeks for an explanation 
from AXA when this should have been cleared up much sooner and this caused a lot 
of avoidable worry and uncertainty for Mr J. A courtesy heads up email wouldve 
avoided this problem.
The issue of why Mr Js wife was called in relation to paying the policy excess was 
poorly handled once raised and a simple explanation wouldve helped resolve this 
point much quicker. I have weighed this up against the contact note from 1 
September 2022 which seemingly referred to his wife being authorised if needed.
It's clear that the apparent access to, or use of, the living quarters of the motorhome 
by the repairers caused annoyance and unanswered questions for Mr J. When I 
factor in alleged unhelpful comments from another AXA agent (the repair report 
author) about the repairer possibly liking to listen to the radio at lunch, I can 
understand why Mr J was upset at the thought of the repairer accessing additional 
areas of the motorhome - if they had no real justification in doing so.
There are other points that have been raised such as the motorhome potentially being left 
outside and uncovered for an extended period of time. But Im satisfied that no evidence has 
been provided to show that no further or remaining damage occurred as a result of this.Putting things right
AXA Insurance UK Plc need to pay Mr J a total of £1000 compensation (initially they 
offered £400 and our Investigator recommended £600). I consider £1000 to be fair, 
reasonable and proportionate - relative to the impact of AXAs actions on Mr J. 
Ive considered Mr Js request for around £1500, but having considered the overall impact 
and all of the evidence provided by both parties, I find £1000 to be fair. I note AXA Insurance 
UK Plc have repeatedly referred to an initial one month delay. But Ive considered the overall 
time taken here alongside the service theyve provided.
AXA Insurance UK Plc will also need to (if they havent already done so) reimburse 
Mr J for the cost of fuel that was used (approximately 96 miles) when the initial 
repairer took the motor home to have the wheels aligned. This should be done at 
todays prices. 
A website such as this https://www.gocompare.com/car-insurance/fuel-price-calculator/ 
should result in a fair calculation.
AXA Insurance UK Plc need to reimburse Mr J for his fuel costs related to him taking 
the motorhome from his home address to the second repairer in Glasgow. AXA 
Insurance UK Plc can use a resource such as this 
https://www.racfoundation.org/data/uk-pump-prices-over-time  to calculate the cost to 
Mr J. 8% simple interest per annum should also be added to this amount from the 
date the trip was made until the date settlement is made. 
Although this was Mr Js chosen repairer, given that the second repair was only needed due 
to the failings of the AXA Insurance UK Plc appointed repairer initially, this award of simple 
interest reflects that Mr J will have been out of pocket for this cost  even if its a relatively 
small amount.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to follow my 
direction as set out under the heading Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman