DRN-3115278
The complaint
Mrs R and Mr Rs complaint is that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined their claim. The 
main policy holder is Mrs R, so for ease Ill refer to Mrs R only.
What happened
In December 2020, Mrs R contacted Aviva to make a claim. She told the insurer that strong
winds damaged her shed and jacuzzi. Aviva looked into the claim under the storm element
of the policy and its loss adjuster carried out a video interview with Mrs R. By this point,
Mrs R had cleared away some of the debris which she says she did because it posed a risk
of injury. Following the loss adjusters report, Aviva declined the claim because it wasnt
satisfied that the weather conditions around the time met the policy definition of a storm.
Mrs R complained but Aviva didnt change its mind. So Mrs R asked this service to get
involved. Our investigator upheld the complaint  he looked at the weather data around the
time Mrs R says the damage took place and was satisfied that the wind speeds were strong
enough to meet the policy definition of a storm. The investigator concluded that the damage
was consistent with storm conditions.
Aviva didnt agree  it says that Mrs Rs claim was the only claim it was notified of around
her area and its common for there to be other similar claims following a storm. Because
Aviva didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final review.
My provisional decision
I recently issued my provisional findings on this matter, explaining why I didnt intend to 
uphold this complaint:
We recently looked into some inconsistencies I noticed with the information we have about
the claim. Although our investigator had concluded that there were storm conditions around
the time Mrs R claimed, this was based on a specific period.
However, it was unclear to me when the damage actually took place because:
In a letter she wrote to Aviva, Mrs R noted that the damage took place at some point 
between 1 November 2020 and 3 December 2020.
The interview with the loss adjuster took place on 10 December 2020, during which 
Mrs R said the damage took place around two weeks prior to this. However, following 
the interview, Mrs R said the damage took place between 16 and 22 November 
2020.
During the call Mrs R made to notify Aviva of her claim (which took place on 3 
December 2020), she told Aviva that the damage occurred last week.
Our investigator recently asked Mrs R about the differing dates shes provided and why
shes been unable to provide a more specific and consistent point at which the damage
occurred. Mrs R has so far been unable to provide an explanation for this.
Considering all the information, in my opinion, the most reliable account of when the damage
took place is the first time Mrs R contacted Aviva  given its the closest point after the
damage occurred and its more likely than not that Mrs Rs account is accurate. Ive listened
to this call and as I mentioned above, Mrs R told Aviva that the damage took place the
previous week. So Ive reviewed the weather data from around that time and Im not
persuaded that the conditions around the time satisfy the policy definition of a storm.
The policy terms define a storm as an unusual weather event with persistent high winds
usually associated with rain, thunder, lighting or snow and goes on to say that the wind
speed normally needs to exceed 55mph. Around the period Mrs R told Aviva the damage
occurred, the wind speed was well below this figure. So, in my view, the fairest conclusion
here is that storm conditions were not present during the time Mrs R says the damage took
place. So I cant fairly conclude that the damage to Mrs Rs shed and jacuzzi was caused by
storm conditions.
Aviva didnt provide any further comments. Mrs R replied explaining why she wasnt always 
consistent about when the damage took place.
Mrs R says the damage took place around two weeks before she first notified Aviva about 
the loss. And she says the information she provided the loss adjuster at the time of the 
interview is consistent with this account. Mrs R explains that the damage took place during 
the week of 16 November 2020 and suggests that English not being her first language and 
the time that has passed may have impacted her account of what happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im still of the view that Aviva doesnt need to review its decision on this claim. My reasons 
for this are largely the same as what I set out in my provisional decision, but Ill address 
Mrs Rs most recent submissions.
Although I welcome Mrs Rs recent explanation, Im still of the opinion that the account she 
gave when she first notified Aviva of the loss is the most reliable. Mrs R says she told the 
loss adjuster that the damage occurred two weeks prior to when she first notified Aviva of 
the damage. But the loss adjusters report and subsequent letter doesnt confirm this is what 
was said. 
Moreover, during the call with Aviva only a week before, Mrs R indicated that the damage 
took place a week prior to this call  which is consistent with what the loss adjusters report 
sets out. I note what Mrs R says about English not being her first language and that the 
length of time has affected her account of when the damage occurred. But I think its unlikely 
that Mrs Rs recollection wouldve been affected during the short period in between the first 
call with Aviva and the interview with the loss adjuster. So its still unclear to me why her 
account of when the damage occurred seems to have changed.
Because of this, I can only fairly rely on the information Mrs R provided Aviva when she first 
called the insurer. On that basis, I stand by my opinion as set out in my provisional decision.
 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman