DRN-3546606
The complaint
Mr P complains about Inter Partner Assistance SAs handling of a claim he made after his 
hot water boiler broke down.
What happened
Mr P has a home emergency insurance policy underwritten by Inter Partner Assistance SA 
(IPA). He made a call to IPA on 4 August 2021 after his boiler broke down, meaning he had 
no hot water or heating.
IPAs engineer attended the next day. He said the heat exchanger in Mr Ps boiler was 
blocked. And after water tests were carried out, IPA informed Mr P they wouldnt be carrying 
out any repairs because the issue had been caused by sludge and was therefore excluded 
by the policy terms.
Mr P had his own engineer inspect the boiler. He agreed that the heat exchanger was 
blocked but said this wasnt down to sludge.
After Mr P reported this to IPA, they sent another engineer. Mr P says he took a water 
sample from the bottom of a radiator and the results wouldnt therefore indicate whether the 
boiler was blocked by sludge or not.
When IPA maintained their position and said they wouldnt pay for the necessary repairs, 
Mr P complained to IPA. 
In October 2021 IPA admitted their diagnosis of the problem with the boiler was wrong  and 
that the repairs should have been covered under the policy.
They paid Mr P the cost of the repairs (£575), the maximum payment for alternative 
accommodation under the terms of the policy (£200) and compensation for Mr Ps trouble 
and upset (£200).
Mr P wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to us. He says he had to stay in 
alternative accommodation for more than two months, until IPA agreed to pay for the repairs, 
at a cost of around £2,700. 
He says he lost earnings (£260) because he had to take time off work to deal with the issue 
with his boiler. And he says his travel costs increased by £5 per day for the period he was in 
alternative accommodation. He thinks IPA should pay him a further £3,300 to cover the costs 
he incurred as a result of their mistake.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think IPA needed to do anything more to put things 
right for Mr P.
Mr P disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here about the error IPA made in refusing the claim based on their 
engineers inspections in early August 2021.
The remaining issue is about how much IPA need to pay Mr P to cover the costs he incurred 
as a result of their misdiagnosis of the problem with the boiler.
IPA admit they made an error. And its right they should pay any costs Mr P reasonably 
incurred as a result of that error. Its also right that they should not have to pay for any costs 
incurred unreasonably, which might have been easily mitigated at no inconvenience to Mr P.
Mr Ps own engineer correctly diagnosed the problem with the heat exchanger in the boiler 
almost immediately after IPAs engineers first visit in early August 2021. The cost of the 
repairs was £575.
The immediate and obvious question was why Mr P incurred more than two months of 
alternative accommodation costs (and additional travel costs)  presumably aware that his 
policy allowed a maximum of £200  rather than get the boiler fixed straight away and 
continue the discussion with IPA about who should pay for it afterwards.
In response to our investigators view on the case, Mr P has said that he couldnt afford to 
get the repairs done at the time. The implication being that he couldnt have the work carried 
out until IPA paid for it. And so, the work on the boiler wasnt carried out until October 2021  
after IPA admitted their error and paid Mr P the cost of the repairs (and a further £400). Only 
then, according to Mr Ps account, was he able to move back into his home.
Mr P has provided copies of documents which he says are receipt and/or invoices for the 
alternative accommodation costs  amounting to £2,700 in total. They reflect payments 
made for £900, on 6 August 2021, and £1,800, on 20 August 2021.
Its difficult to see how Mr P couldnt afford £575 for the repairs to his boiler on 5 August 
2021  or at any time until October 2021  but has paid out £900 for alternative 
accommodation on or around 6 August 2021  and £1,800 a few weeks later.
So, Im satisfied the evidence provided by Mr P himself shows that the costs he incurred for 
alternative accommodation werent reasonably or necessarily incurred. And Im not going to 
require IPA to pay them. Mr P could have had the boiler fixed immediately. If so, he would 
have needed at most one or two days alternative accommodation, if any. And IPA have paid 
him the policy limit of £200. 
Mr P says he lost earnings (£260) due to IPAs mistakes. Hes provided what he says is a 
copy of a letter from his employer to confirm that. 
Mr Ps boiler broke down. He had to take time off work (I assume he has a zero hours 
contract, without any provision for leave) as result of that. IPA didnt cause the boiler to 
break down. I dont have any evidence to suggest Mr P had to take additional time off as a 
result of IPAs initial error in diagnosing the fault with the boiler.
In summary, Im satisfied that IPAs response to Mr Ps complaint to them and the payments 
they made to Mr P  totalling £975  were entirely fair and reasonable. Im not going to 
require IPA to do anything more to put things right for Mr P.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman