DRN-1237123
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in January 2009. Ms A says Santander UK Plc mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Ms A took out a credit card with Santander in January 2009. She was sold the PPI at the 
same time. The policy cost 74p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. It wouldve 
paid 10% of the monthly outstanding balance for 12 months if Ms A was off work sick or lost 
her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms As complaint. Ms A didnt agree with our adjudicator, so 
the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 
I think Santander made it clear that Ms A didnt have to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this. I say 
this because Ive seen a copy of the credit agreement that Ms A signed and I can see 
she chose to take out PPI. And as the PPI wouldve appeared on her monthly credit 
card statements, had it been added to Ms As account without either her knowledge 
or consent, I wouldve expected her to query this at some point in the following few 
months.
 
Santander didnt recommend the PPI to Ms A  she chose to buy it herself. So 
Santander didnt have to check that the PPI was right for her. But it did have to give 
her enough information about the policy so she could decide for herself if she wanted 
it. 
 
Its possible the information Santander gave Ms A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  she 
told us she was employed and in good health - so it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
 
Ive thought about everything Mrs A has said about the sale of the PPI but these points 
dont change my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman