DRN-3430287
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Y complain about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) who declined 
their claim under their home insurance policy and for the poor service they received. 
What happened
In June 2020 during bad weather, water leaked into Mr and Mrs Ys home causing damage. 
They contacted Lloyds to make a claim. A roofer attended and made some temporary 
repairs, which stemmed the flow of water. The roofer wrote a report. 
Mr Y was advised to obtain contractors who could carry out permanent repairs. But he was 
unsuccessful in getting anyone. So, Lloyds sent out a surveyor to assess the damage and 
write a report. The surveyor requested the original roofers report and took photos and 
completed a report of the damage. The surveyor repudiated the claim on the date of 
inspection and told Mr and Mrs Y of this. 
Mr and Mrs Y said that they had been told that the claim was accepted by Lloyds. But It 
wasnt until December 2020 when an email was sent stating that the claim had been 
declined. Mr and Mrs Y said that they were unaware that the claim had been declined in 
February 2021, when they contacted Lloyds for an update.
Mr and Mrs Y referred a complaint to our service for the declined claim and the poor 
customer service issues they had experienced. Lloyds in its final response, said that the 
storm claim wouldnt be covered as the damage to the roof was due to wear and tear. And 
under the policy terms and conditions, this wasnt covered. It did accept that there were poor 
customer service issues and for this, it offered and paid £200 for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that there were no storm conditions present. And that Lloyds were fair to reply upon the 
surveyors report who concluded that the damage was caused, due to wear and tear. And as 
wear and tear were excluded under the policy, Lloyds were fair to decline the claim. As to 
the £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused, he said that this was reasonable 
and in line with the amount that would be awarded for the failings. 
Lloyds accepted the view, Mr and Mrs Y did not. They said that our investigators findings 
were flawed. That our service wasnt fit for purpose. They mentioned that they wouldve 
preferred another investigator, who had left our service and said that our investigators view 
was contrary to the previous investigator and Lloyds.  They also said that the policy they 
held included accidental damage and indeed was a platinum package. So, they asked for a 
decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to Mr 
and Mrs Y, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether an event 
can be classed as a storm. These are: 
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage? 
If any of the answers to the above questions are no, then an insurer can reasonably decline a claim. 
Lloyds determined that the event did not amount to a storm. Mr and Mrs Ys policy defined a 
storm as: A period of violent weather with gusts of at least 55mph and/or hail or snow of 
such intensity or weight that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.  
Mr Y said that following what he described as storm conditions, he noticed water ingress that 
caused damage to various areas of his home. From the evidence, I can see that Lloyds 
obtained weather information for various dates in June. Those weather reports confirmed 
that the wind wasnt strong enough, nor was there heavy enough rain or hail.
I have considered the local weather reports for June, which are usually the best evidence I 
can rely on to check whether there were prevailing storm conditions. These show that there 
were mild winds, so they were not strong enough to meet the policy requirements. In 
addition, there was some rain and hail but again not enough to meet the policy requirements.  
Looking at the reports, and in answering whether storm conditions were present on or 
around the date the damage is said to have happened, the answer is no. Consequently, I 
cant be satisfied that a storm was present at the time of the event and I think it was fair for 
Lloyds to conclude that there were no storm conditions present. 
I have next considered the policy terms and conditions and under the section that deals with 
storm, it makes it clear that damage caused by wear and tear is not covered: A storm can 
highlight damage rather than cause it and damage that happens gradually through wear and 
tear or due to lack of maintenance is not covered.
Lloyds initially instructed a roofer to check the damage. The roofer wrote a report and in it he 
said: No obvious defects to roof, found 2 slight cracks too valley tiles, carried out temp 
repair on these. As advised to the PH whilst on site, this was the only slight defect we could 
see with the roof. From this, I think that the roofer found no obvious damage to the roof. But 
Lloyds did also instruct a surveyor to assess the roof further to ascertain the cause of 
damage. 
I have been provided with a copy of the report that the surveyor wrote. And in the 12-page 
report, it gives details of what the surveyor saw, what he found and what his conclusions 
were as to the cause of the damage. I also noted that in the report, the surveyor mentioned 
that he had told Mr and Mrs Y on site (on the date of inspection) that the claim would be 
repudiated (declined).
The surveyor found the following upon inspection of the roof: On our external roof 
inspection, we found cracked and slipped tiles to the roof, cracked and slipped tiles occur over a prolonged period of time and most likely caused as a result of nail fatigue and a lack 
of maintenance.  I note that the roofer who initially attended also found cracked tiles. The 
report goes on to mention: The tile valleys are showing signs of general wear and tear and 
may be the cause of ingress.  And states that there were ongoing issues with seals on the 
flat roof which was a possible cause of the water ingress.  As well as water ingress due to 
failed lead flashing. The report concludes that the claim was to be declined in full.  
Im satisfied that the surveyor is an expert and as such, I don think it was unfair or 
unreasonable for Lloyds to rely on the expert. And as the expert had concluded that the 
cause of damage was due to wear and tear, which is excluded under the policy terms, I think 
that Lloyds were reasonable to decline the claim, as the cause of damage was due to wear 
and tear, which is not covered under the policy terms. 
Lloyds offered and paid £200 compensation for the poor service that Mr and Mrs Y 
experienced during the claims process. Mr and Mrs Y explained that they had to chase 
Lloyds for updates, there were delays and they were given misinformation. In that they said 
they had been told that the claim would be accepted when it was not.  
I have looked into this. Lloyds said that it hadnt told Mr and Mrs Y that their claim would be 
accepted, but the way in which the advisor communicated this to them, might have seemed 
as if the claim had been accepted. The advisor told them that she would have to check the 
weather reports and the quote and didnt say the claim was covered. 
In addition, Mr and Mrs Y said that they hadnt been told until a few months after the 
surveyor had attended their home (and only after they had chased Lloyds for an update) that 
their claim had been declined. But, having looked at the surveyors report (as Ive previously 
mentioned) he told Mr and Mrs Y on site, on the day of inspection, that the claim would be 
declined.
Despite this, Im satisfied that there had been some customer service failings, which Lloyds 
recognised and paid £200 compensation. Based on the evidence before me, I think the level 
of compensation provided was a fair amount which adequately reflects those failings. 
I realise that this is not the outcome that Mr and Mrs Y wouldve liked. But, in the 
circumstances of this complaint, Im not satisfied that Lloyds were unfair or unreasonable in 
declining the claim. Nor do I think the £200 compensation was unreasonable. So, I wont be 
asking it to do anything further to resolve the complaint. 
My final decision
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has already paid £200 compensation to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman