DRN-3699251
The complaint
Ms M has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) acted unfairly 
by continuing to apply charges to her account when she was in financial difficulty.  
What happened
Ms M complained to Halifax that the fees it applied to her account caused her financial 
difficulty. Halifax says the charges were applied correctly in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account and didnt uphold the complaint. And as Ms M was dis-satisfied 
she referred the complaint to our service.
Ms Ms complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that Halifax 
ought to have realised that Ms M was experiencing financial difficulty by August 2017 and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. 
In response to this Halifax agreed that it shouldve stepped in to help but at the later date of 
January 2019. It says prior to this Ms M was able to manage her overdraft and that her 
spending was excessive on non-essential items. So Ms Ms complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im in agreement with our adjudicator that 
Halifax acted unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees on 
Ms Ms overdraft from August 2017. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Ms M was 
in no position to sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
It was clear that Ms M was having difficulty managing her money. Ms M hadnt seen or 
maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time. Halifaxs own literature suggests 
that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day 
expenditure. 
Ms Ms statements show that even after her regular incoming credits came in if it was 
enough to bring her account into credit it was only for a very short period of time before she 
was back in overdraft after she paid essential bills. 
I accept occasionally there was what appears to be the odd spend on non-essential items 
but in the months leading up to August 2017 the vast majority of spending was on essential 
bills such as utilities, food and paying off credit cards which kept her overdrawn. 
So I think that Ms Ms overdraft usage should have prompted Halifax to have realised that 
Ms M wasnt using her overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the 
same terms In these circumstances, it ought to have been apparent that Ms M was at a 
significant risk of experiencing financial difficulty and so should have been treated with 
forbearance rather than having had even more interest, fees and charges added to her 
overdraft. As Halifax didnt react to Ms Ms overdraft usage and instead continued charging 
in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably.
Ms M ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Halifax didnt 
treat Ms M fairly and she lost out because of what Halifax did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Ms complaint for Halifax to put things right by:
Reworking Ms Ms current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from August 2017 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Halifax should contact Ms M to arrange a suitable repayment plan, 
Ms M is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Halifax to reach a 
suitable agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on 
Ms Ms credit file, Halifax should reflect what would have been recorded had it 
started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft from August 2017. 
Halifax can also reduce overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it 
appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave Ms M over their limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Ms M along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Halifax 
should remove any adverse information from Ms Ms credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must 
give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Ms complaint. Bank of Scotland plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman