DRN-3490975
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy Monzo Bank Ltd wont reimburse him the money hes lost after he fell 
victim to a scam. 
Mr M in bringing his complaint to our service is being represented by solicitors. For ease, I 
will refer to Mr M throughout this decision. 
What happened
Mr M had been thinking about investing in Bitcoin to help support a family member. He said 
hed read endorsements by well-known celebrities, which persuaded him to invest. 
A friend of Mr Ms introduced him to a company that they were investing in at the time. 
Mr Ms friend had invested around £2,000 and said theyd made a return of £9,000. Mr M 
says he researched the company online and checked the website which he said appeared 
professional. Due to his friends recommendation, Mr M says he was persuaded the firm was 
genuine. Unbeknown to Mr M at the time he was in contact with fraudsters. 
A messaging group between the company, Mr M and his friend was set up via a messaging 
app. Mr M says this was where the three individuals spoke about investing. Mr M wasnt 
sure about setting up an account for himself and was hesitant to invest. So, the company 
suggested he send funds to his friend, so that they could invest as part of a joint account. 
Mr M says this reassured him. 
On 5 July 2021, Mr M sent via an account he held with a different bank, £9,000 to his friend. 
It was following this; he says he was encouraged to open his own account which he agreed 
to. Mr M opened an account with a cryptocurrency exchange. 
Mr M said he was initially encouraged to invest £25,000 to maximise his profits. However, he 
explained he didnt have this amount but would try to get £21,000. Mr Ms explained his 
friend told him about their investments and profits and he could also see the trading on the 
joint account which convinced him to make the payments.  
In July 2021, Mr M made the following eight payments to the fraudsters, totalling £20,900;
28 July 2021           £50
28 July 2021           £7,000
28 July 2021           £2,900
28 July 2021           £50
28 July 2021           £500
28 July 2021           £400
29 July 2021           £5,000
29 July 2021           £5,000
The payments were made to the cryptocurrency account that Mr M had opened in his name 
and from there he sent the money onto the fraudsters to the wallet details hed been given. 
Mr M says he made the payments this way as the company told him that banks would block 
larger payments. Mr M says he was asked by the fraudster to downloaded software so that 
they could make sure everything was being done correctly. 
Mr M explained each time he made a payment from his cryptocurrency account, he could 
see this on the trading account that the funds had seemingly moved to, and hed been given 
access to. 
On 28 July 2021, around midday, Mr M contacted Monzo in order to increase his daily 
account transfer limit, which he says was done with no questions being asked by the bank. 
Following his contact with Monzo via its chat function, his bank transfer limit was increased 
until midnight that same day. 
When making the payments on 29 July 2021, Mr M says the cryptocurrency account held in 
his name was placed on hold due to it believing hed sent £5,000 twice. Mr M said he 
informed the fraudster who assured him everything was fine. 
There appears to have been communication between Mr M and the fraudster in early 
August 2021, but he says towards the end of August 2021 the contact stopped. Mr M says 
this prompted him to try to make a withdrawal through the companys website, but he 
received no response. 
On 20 August 2021, Mr M reported hed been the victim of a scam to Monzo via its chat 
function.  
Mr M explained he still had access to the trading account and that he received contact from 
the company on 11 October 2021, telling him that if he paid 5% of the current balance on the 
account, he would be able to withdraw the funds. 
Monzo investigated his claim but declined to reimburse him the money he lost. It didnt 
consider the payments Mr M made were fraudulent. This was on the basis; Mr M made the 
payments to an account in his own name. It considered Mr Ms case under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) and said Mr M was shown a warning 
which it felt met the requirements to be impactful. Monzo didnt attempt to recover the 
payments Mr M made due to the funds being sent to an account in his own name. 
Unhappy with Monzos response, Mr M brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things and upheld the complaint in part. He recommended Monzo 
should reimburse 50% of Mr Ms losses from and including the second payment of £7,000. 
Plus, pay the savings account interest rate of 0.01% AER on the 50% refund from the date 
the funds debited the account until the funds are returned. He said this because: 
He considered Monzo ought to have been concerned about the second payment 
Mr M asked to make of £7,000. This was because he thought this payment was out 
of character to the previous account activity. 
He considered the online warning Monzo say it presented to Mr M, but he didnt think 
this went far enough. When thinking about the £7,000 payment, he thought Monzo 
ought to have contacted Mr M to speak about the payment before allowing it to be 
processed. Had it done so, he was satisfied this wouldve made a difference and the 
scam couldve been prevented. 
Whilst he recognised Mr M made the payments to an account in his own name with 
the cryptocurrency exchange, he felt had intervention happened, the bank wouldve 
been on notice that Mr M was at risk of financial harm. Therefore, while he 
recognised the losses didnt arise from the initial payment, he thought they ought to 
have been within the contemplation of, and foreseeable to Monzo. Our investigator also considered whether Mr M had acted fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances. Having done so, he thought Mr M should share responsibility for his 
loss due to his actions.
Mr M through his representative accepted our Investigators view but Monzo disagreed for a 
number of reasons. Some of these include, but are not limited to: 
It shouldnt be held liable for 50% of Mr Ms loss as the funds were sent to an 
account in his own name  so the payments Mr M made from his Monzo account to 
the cryptocurrency account held in his name were not scam payments. 
Had intervention taken place and further questions been asked, Monzo considers it 
would have revealed that Mr M was paying funds to his own account. 
It reiterated that the payments were made to an account in his own name and 
therefore, there was no reason for it to have had concerns or for it to consider 
reimbursing him 50% of the loss. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. 
Having considered everything, I uphold this complaint in part. I will now explain why. 
It's not in dispute that Mr M authorised the scam payments. Mr M was duped by the 
fraudsters into instructing the bank to transfer money to a cryptocurrency account which he 
held in his name and from there he sent the money onto the fraudsters. So, while Mr M didnt 
intend for the money to go to the fraudsters, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, 
and the terms and condition of his account he is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably 
to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customers as a result.
As our Investigator explained, the payments Mr M made as part of this scam are not covered 
by the CRM Code. This is because the CRM Code covers Authorised Push Payments when 
the funds are transferred to another person and not to a consumers own account. In this 
case, Mr M sent the funds to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange account in his own name. 
So, the provisions of the CRM Code dont apply here. 
Nonetheless, there are some situations in which Monzo should reasonably have had a 
closer look at the circumstances surrounding these transactions. I consider that as a matter of good practice, Monzo shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of character 
transactions. However, it must also balance this against its obligation to process payments in 
line with its customers instructions and the terms and conditions of the account. I 
acknowledge that this can at times be a difficult balance to strike.
Were the payments Mr M made unusual or out of character?
Ive looked at what I think is the heart of the matter here, being; should Monzo have 
recognised Mr Ms payments as being suspicious and intervened to try and mitigate the risk 
of him falling victim to financial harm from fraud. 
When considering Mr Ms account activity, I agree with our Investigators conclusions that at 
the point he made the £7,000 payment, Monzo ought to have reasonably been concerned. I 
say this because from reviewing Mr Ms bank statements, from April 2019 up to the scam 
payments, I cant see that Mr M had made a payment of this size and amount previously. 
The largest payment I can see Mr M made prior to the scam payments was for around 
£4,000 which was to an account he held in his name and regularly made payments to. Here, 
Mr M set up a new payee to a cryptocurrency exchange, made an initial payment of £50 that 
day, followed by a much larger payment of £7,000. I think this ought to have caused Monzo 
concern  given the amount Mr M was paying to crypto assets increased in a short space of 
time, which is often an indicator of a scam. 
While I accept that buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate exercise, both the FCA and Action 
Fraud had warned of cryptocurrency exchange and forex trading scams in 2018. And in May 
2019 Action Fraud published further warnings that such scams had tripled in the past year. 
This type of insight is something regulated businesses including Monzo, ought to take notice 
of. So even if Mr M had been sending money to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange, it 
didnt follow that his money was safe, or that he wasnt at risk of financial harm due to fraud 
or a scam. 
The evidence provided by Monzo shows that an online warning was provided to Mr M when 
he set up the new payee and made the initial payment of £50. But that no warnings were 
provided for any of the scam payments made after this. I consider the first payment of £50 to 
be unremarkable given the low amount of the payment and previous account activity. So, I 
dont think a warning was required for this payment. That said, our Investigator within his 
view commented on the online warning Monzo say Mr M was provided with at the time he 
made the initial payment. For completeness and the avoidance of doubt, I agree with our 
Investigator that the warning didnt go far enough to bring to life the common features of the 
scam Mr M was falling victim to. I consider the warning to be general in nature and pointed 
to various issues not apparent to this scam  in particular, there is no mention of 
cryptocurrency at all. But in any event, for the reasons Ive explained above, I think Monzo 
ought to have got in touch with Mr M to ask him questions about the second payment of 
£7,000 before processing it. 
Would intervention have prevented the fraud?
Our Investigator said had Monzo got in touch to make enquiries with Mr M about the purpose 
of the payments before allowing them to be made, he thinks this wouldve made a difference. 
In setting out his reasons within his view, he posed some questions that Monzo could have 
asked Mr M at the time. Monzo in its appeal has highlighted that it needs to be 
acknowledged these questions have been provided with the benefit of hindsight, knowing 
what we know now and that it does not necessitate that if it had asked similar questions at the time, that it would have been able to have prevented the payments from taking place. It 
raised that Mr M couldve given the bank different information. 
Ive thought carefully about what Monzo has said. Inevitably its very difficult to know what 
would have happened had Mr M been contacted at the time and asked a few questions 
about the activity he was carrying out. In such situations, I have to reach my findings based 
on what I think is more likely than not to have happened. 
Having done so, had intervention taken place, Im persuaded there are some clear red flags 
here that Monzo likely would have identified and pointed out to Mr M. From what Ive seen, 
Mr M wasnt an experienced cryptocurrency investor. I think a professional body, such as 
Monzo, highlighting some of the red flags present would have caused him to question what 
he was doing. Given that Mr M has told us he was initially hesitant to invest and only did so 
initially as part of a joint investment with his friend. 
Our Investigator, was further persuaded that Mr M wouldve shared this information with 
Monzo had it asked him questions about the payments, after hed listened to a call between 
Mr M and his other bank (whom he holds an account with). It was from this account with a 
different bank that Mr M made a £9,000 payment to his friend prior to setting up his own 
account with the company and making the payments from his Monzo account. While Ive 
been unable to listen to this call, I have seen our Investigators transcript of the call. From 
what Ive seen, Mr M was open and forthcoming. When asked questions about the £9,000 
payment he explained it was for an investment and, when asked how hed verified the 
company as genuine, he explained he trusted his friend and indicated that he hadnt done 
any checks on the company  other than an online search and checked its website. 
Ive not seen anything that suggests Mr M was given a cover story and so Ive no reason to 
doubt he would have explained what he was doing  and it appears he openly did so when 
speaking with his other bank. Whilst I accept Monzo had no duty to protect Mr M from a poor 
investment choice, or give investment advice, it could have provided him with information 
about the high risks associated with these types of investments and common hallmarks of 
scams which were present in this case. Had Monzo asked Mr M about how he was 
introduced to the investment, what checks hed already carried out to confirm its authenticity 
and brought to life what investment scams looked and felt like, I think the likely answers he 
wouldve given should have caused concern. 
I do acknowledge Mr M says he trusted the recommendation of his friend and says he 
believed the company to be genuine. But in speaking with Mr M about the payments, had 
Monzo provided him with information about the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), in light of 
his early reluctance to invest, Im persuaded he wouldve listened and thought about what 
Monzo had told him. Had Mr M then checked the FCA register, he wouldve seen that a 
warning about the company had been added in June 2021  which was before he made the 
first payment to the fraudster. 
Even, if only some of the circumstances surrounding the payment was revealed, I think it is 
more likely than not that this ought fairly and reasonably to have given Monzo cause for 
concern. It follows that on balance, I think it likely that Monzo would have been able to 
prevent the further payments had it intervened and provided a very strong warning and 
advice on these types of frauds. 
But that isnt the end of the matter, I also need to consider whether Mr M ought to bear some 
responsibility for the loss he incurred. 
Should Mr M bear some responsibility for his loss? Having carefully considered all the evidence, I find Mr M ignored some red flags which ought 
to have given him cause for concern. Because of this, I think Mr M should bear equal 
responsibility for his loss. I will now explain why. 
Mr M carried out little to no research on the company prior to deciding to invest. I do 
recognise Mr M was introduced to the company by his friend who had already invested with 
them and, had told him about their investments and profits. But hes confirmed he didnt see 
any information that supported or showed this. He was further told by his friend that theyd 
tripled their investment in around three weeks. Given Mr M said he was initially hesitant to 
invest due to him being sceptical about easy money, I think this ought to have been a flag  
and led him to proceed more cautiously. I think this rate of return seemed too good to be 
true. 
In chat messages Mr M has provided, I can also see the fraudster told Mr M there was a 
35% starter bonus from the investment, when he was setting up his account with the 
company. This he was told would be an additional 10,000 dollars. I dont think this was a 
realistic offer and again was a flag that ought to have struck Mr M as seeming too good to be 
true. 
Further, Mr M has told us that the fraudster told him to make smaller payments rather than a 
payment for the full amount he was looking to invest, as theyd experienced issues 
previously with the banks blocking legitimate payments. This ought to reasonably have 
raised questions with Mr M as to why a genuine investment company was giving him 
instructions that encouraged him to circumvent a banks fraud detection systems. I think this 
ought to have fairly and reasonably given Mr M pause for thought and at least prompted him 
to ask further questions. 
All in all, Im persuaded there was enough going on that ought to have reasonably led Mr M 
to adopt a more cautious approach to the payments he was making. Because of this, I find 
Mr M should therefore take responsibility for half the funds Monzo likely could have 
prevented being paid. I mean no discourtesy to Mr M in reaching this finding as I 
acknowledge he was the victim of a sophisticated and cruel scam. But I must be fair to both 
parties and acknowledge where he could have done more to ensure he was dealing with a 
legitimate company.   
Recovery of funds
Ive thought about whether Monzo did all it could to try and recover the money Mr M lost. 
Monzo say it didnt make any attempts to try to recover Mr Ms funds as it said a fraud claim 
couldnt be raised against himself. It said it advised Mr M that he needed to raise these 
payments with the cryptocurrency exchange, so that it could try and retrieve the funds for 
him. 
I dont think it reasonable that Monzo decided not to attempt recovery. But having said this, 
given that Mr M has told us he sent his money from his Monzo account to the account he 
held in his name with the cryptocurrency exchange, and from there then moved this onto the 
fraudsters. I dont think Monzo wouldve been able to recover any funds - even had it 
contacted the receiving bank. So, it follows that I dont think it missed an opportunity to 
recover the money Mr M sadly lost. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained above, Monzo should reimburse Mr M 50% of the money he 
lost, from and including the second payment of £7,000. I calculate this to be £10,425. The funds used to finance the payments Mr M made to his cryptocurrency exchange account 
originated from his savings account which he held with another bank. Mr M has provided 
information relating to his savings account which shows the account interest rate as 0.01% 
per annum. So, I consider Monzo should add interest to the settlement set out above (less 
any tax properly deductible) at the originating savings account rate  from the respective 
dates of loss to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman