DRN-3728496
The complaint
Mr G complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
affordability checks before it granted loans which he couldnt afford to repay.
 
What happened
Mr G took two home collected loans from Morses between August 2021 and 
December 2021. A summary of his borrowing can be found below;
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £300.00 09/08/2021 10/12/2021 35 £15.00
2 £600.00 13/12/2021 outstanding 35 £30.00
Morses considered Mr Gs complaint and didnt uphold it. Unhappy with this response, 
Mr Gs representative referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. He concluded Morses made a reasonable 
decision to lend these loans and there wasnt anything in the information that Mr G provided 
which wouldve prompted Morses to have carried out further checks. He, therefore, didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
Morses didnt respond to or acknowledge the adjudicators assessment. 
Mr G didnt agree with the outcome and provided copies of his bank statements between 
April 2020 and April 2021. But no further comments were provided. 
Mr Gs representative then explained (verbatim):
I am afraid that we do not agree with the decision made and therefore request the 
case be transferred for a Final Decision by an Ombudsman.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr G could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Morses checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Gs income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr G. These factors include:
Mr G having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr G having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr G coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr G.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr G could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr G was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Gs complaint.
Before loan one was approved, Morses took details of Mr Gs income and expenditure. 
Morses recorded Mr Gs income as being £315 per week with weekly outgoings of £182. 
Morses was therefore aware that he had around £133 per week in which to make the weekly 
loan payment of £15. 
Similar income and expenditure details were collected before loan two was granted. Mr G 
declared a weekly income of £356, outgoings of £185.25 leaving £170.75 per week in 
disposable income to afford the loan repayment of £30. 
Based solely on the declared income and expenditure information Morses couldve 
reasonably concluded Mr G would be in a position to afford the weekly repayments he had 
committed to. 
In addition to the above, before loan one, Morses also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided a copy of the results. 
It is worth saying here that although Morses carried out a credit search there isnt a 
regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what Morses cant 
do is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the information it received  if 
necessary.  Having reviewed the results, there is some adverse information such as Morses being aware 
of two defaults  both of which had been settled. However, the most recent default was 
recorded 60 months before loan one was approved. Which in my view, is too far away from 
his loan application to make Morses think Mr G was likely having current financial difficulties. 
So, I dont think the credit checks wouldve prompted Morses to either have declined the 
loan application or to have made further enquiries with Mr G. 
There was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led Morses to 
believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information 
Mr G had provided. This means, while I thank Mr G for providing his bank statements, for the 
reasons Ive outlined above, I dont think it had yet reached the point where Morses needed 
to have verified the information. It therefore wouldnt have been reasonable for Morses 
wouldnt have looked at his statements.  
Given it was early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for Morses to have 
relied on the information Mr G provided such as his income and expenditure figures. Which 
showed it, Mr G had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments he was 
committed to making. Im therefore not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
An outstanding balance remains due for loan two, and I would remind Morses of its 
obligation to treat Mr G fairly and with forbearance if he requires assistance in repaying what 
is owed. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman