DRN-3317366
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc has not refunded a cheque he paid to get out of a 
timeshare arrangement.
What happened
In June 2018 Mr R had a Timeshare type agreement which he wanted to get out of. Around 
that time he came into contact with a company who said it provided Timeshare 
Relinquishment services and it could get him out of the timeshare agreement for a fee. Ill 
call this Company A. So Mr R paid Company A £10,950 by cheque to get out of the 
Timeshare.
Company A told him he was successfully out of his Timeshare. But sometime later the 
Timeshare company contacted Mr R asking for him to pay sums due. It transpired that 
Company A had done nothing. So he went to Barclays in June 2019 to get his money back 
as he believed hed been caught up in a fraud.
Barclays considered the matter and noted that neither Chargeback nor a claim under S75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applied as Mr R had paid Company A by cheque. So it told 
him it had no liability in the circumstances and his only options were to pursue Company A 
(which is now in liquidation).
Mr R feels this is unfair, so he brought his complaint to this service. Our Investigator 
considered the matter but found that Barclays position on the matter was fair. Mr R still 
hasnt had his money back and is still unhappy and accordingly this complaint comes to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make very clear that this decision is not about Company A or other firms Mr R dealt 
with in his efforts to extricate himself from the Timeshare. This is because these companies 
arent within the jurisdiction of this service. It is solely about what Barclays did or didnt do. 
And it should be remembered Barclays are only involved in this issue because its managed 
Mr Rs account which he paid the cheque from. It didnt take his money.
I should add that Ive no doubt about Mr Rs comments that he has been conned into making 
this payment to get out of his timeshare and it was actually a complex fraud. But Barclays 
can only be held responsible for what it has done or should have done or under any 
obligations it has.
I should also add that Im sorry to hear of Mr Rs health concerns and Ive considered these 
in my decision making, whilst assessing the circumstances here.
Ive considered everything that has happened here and unfortunately for Mr R his complaint 
fails. I shall explain why. As Mr R paid the money by cheque he has no protection either 
under the Chargeback process or under the Consumer Credit Act. 
He only gains protection under the Chargeback process operated by the Card network if he 
uses a debit card or credit card. As he paid by cheque the Chargeback process doesnt 
apply. So Barclays hasnt done anything wrong by not making a chargeback because this 
wasnt a credit card or debit card transaction.
Similarly Mr R gains no protection under the Consumer Credit Act. This is because he didnt 
fund this transaction through the use of credit, he paid it by cheque. Which in comparison to 
the protections Ive mentioned is akin, or not dissimilar to, having handed over cash (in 
laymans terms). As this was a cheque payment there are very limited protections available 
and those are in essence really only available contemporaneously to the time of handing 
over the cheque (and these can often be unsuccessful). 
Ive seen no persuasive evidence of Mr R trying to stop the cheque at the time. In fact he 
makes clear that he didnt contact Barclays about the matter for around a year. And bearing 
in mind the cheque would have cleared in days and the funds would moved in that timeframe 
(and likely been moved on after that). It is clear there was no opportunity for Barclays to get 
the money back.
Mr R makes a number of arguments as to what he sees as failings of Barclays. I shall deal 
with these in turn.
Mr R says Barclays should have done more with regard to stopping scammers receiving his 
funds. However Ive seen no persuasive evidence that Barclays was on notice that this was 
a scam at the point of the cheque being cashed. Or aware of the account number or sort 
code of the receiving account that was involved in such scams. Its clear Mr R didnt think this 
was a scam that Barclays could help with until around the time he contacted Barclays a year 
later. Furthermore unlike some digital transactions Barclays was not on notice that Mr R had 
issued a cheque until it was presented for payment by the recipient. In essence it had no 
way of knowing what the receiving account numbers or sort code would be. And as Ive 
described a cheque is, in a number of ways, akin to a cash transaction. Mr Rs comments 
about its failings in its obligations arent persuasive or applicable (or both) in this cheque 
scenario.
Mr R points to the CRM code. Not only wasnt this in force at the time Mr R issued the 
cheque, it only applies to certain types of electronic payment methods and APP type scams 
using such payment methods. So this code doesnt apply here for both reasons.
Mr R points to the morality of the situation. Barclays hasnt done anything wrong here. So 
Im not persuaded by this. Barclays can only be held responsible if its done something 
wrong. I think it would be unfair and unreasonable to make it pay for Mr Rs losses here. It is 
Company A who is mainly responsible here, not Barclays.
Mr R says Im obliged to consider the laws and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, codes of practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. I have done this, and Im satisfied Barclays hasnt done 
anything wrong here under any of those tests which would make it fair for it to pay for Mr Rs 
payment here.
I note that Mr R has pointed to a number of other arguments here, none of which persuade 
me to uphold this complaint against Barclays. However he has not said he didnt pay by 
cheque nor has he pointed to any specific relevant and applicable rules about cheques which persuade me that Barclays has done anything wrong. Im sorry to say that the position 
which has been articulated to him about the situation with cheque payments has been 
correct throughout. I do appreciate this is a substantial amount of money and has had 
significant consequences for Mr R. But the fault here doesnt sit with Barclays.
Mr R has also made comments about the service hes received here. He has the option of 
complaining about this service but that will have no impact on this my final decision on the 
matter. As this is a final decision.
Lastly Mr R points to protections he could have had if hed paid through other means and 
feels this is unfair that there are different protections for different payment methods. 
However Barclays only has obligations in certain situations, and this isnt one of them. And 
ultimately the actions of Company A isnt its responsibility.
I do appreciate that this isnt the decision Mr R wishes to read. And Im sorry he finds himself 
in this position. But this isnt Barclays fault. Mr R is at liberty to not accept this decision and 
thus not be bound by it. However this final decision does bring to an end this services 
involvement in this dispute between Mr R and Barclays on this particular matter.
My final decision
For the above reasons I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK Plc. It has 
nothing more to do in relation to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman