DRN-2675056
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC has compromised his security.
What happened
Mr G rang Lloyds to ask them a question. Afterwards they sent him an email explaining that 
if he had a similar question again then Mr G could do most of his day to day banking using 
internet or mobile banking.
The email contained the section how to get online. In this section the email showed Mr Gs 
user identification (User ID) twice. Mr G was concerned that the email could be fraudulent so 
he forwarded the email to Lloyds scam email address. Mr G says Lloyds confirmed to him 
that it was genuinely from them, to help him manage his money from home.
Mr G complained to Lloyds as he felt they breached his security by displaying his User ID. 
He said that this would help scammers hack into his account online. Lloyds did not uphold 
Mr Gs complaint. They said that their online team confirmed that some of their digital 
correspondence will contain a customers User ID. Lloyds apologised for any inconvenience 
caused but said they had not made an error. They also said that the email didnt request him 
to take any action and only provided him with information.
Mr G was unhappy with Lloyds response so he brought his complaint to our service. He said 
that he didnt remember Lloyds quoting his User ID on any other correspondence and he 
asked Lloyds for examples of this but they didnt respond to him. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Gs complaint. The investigator quoted several sections of 
Lloyds internet banking terms and conditions. In summary the investigator said that Lloyds 
had acted as she would expect them to, adding that a fraudster would need more 
information than the User ID to gain access to Mr Gs accounts. The investigator also quoted 
the Lloyds online fraud guarantee which states We'll refund any money you lose if you do all 
you can to keep your details and devices safe.
Mr G asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said that he had asked Lloyds 
three questions months ago and they havent responded to his questions. He wanted to find 
out why Lloyds need to quote the User ID, why they dont include it in every communication 
they send him and why have they not included this in any of their previous communications 
with him.
Lloyds responded to our investigator and apologised that they hadnt replied to Mr G. In 
answer to his questions they said they would include the User ID in a communication so that 
a customer would know the email was genuine. They said that they may also use the last 
four digits of an account number or part of a customers postcode instead of a customers 
User ID. In response to Mr Gs question about why they dont include the User ID in every 
communication, Lloyds said that they may use other information as detailed previously but 
their main intention is to ensure the customer knows the email is genuinely from them. 
Lastly, in response to why they hadnt included the User ID in their communications before, 
Lloyds said that it appeared the communication in question was related to the pandemic and 
they were letting their customers know how they can support them during this time.
The investigator passed the answers to Mr G. He said that he thought Lloyds were using the 
pandemic as an excuse and by quoting his User ID it has put his bank account at risk at a 
vulnerable time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I need to explain that its not the role of this service to say how a business should run 
their internet communications process, however, Ive looked to see if Lloyds have made any 
errors in communicating with Mr G quoting his User ID and Im satisfied they havent. Ill 
explain why below.
Ive looked at why Lloyds would include a User ID in their communication with Mr G. The 
reason in which they do so is to let the customer know that the email is genuinely from 
Lloyds and not a fraudster who is phishing (impersonating to be from the bank to get the 
customer to give them personal details such as passwords and card numbers) and as such 
Lloyds say they would never ask for any customer details on an email they send to a 
customer.
Im persuaded that there is no detriment to Mr G in Lloyds displaying his User ID in a email 
to him, sent to his registered email address. I say that as in the unlikely event the email was 
intercepted by someone else, the User ID alone would not be sufficient to access Mr Gs 
accounts. Looking at Lloyds website a customer would need the User ID, a password and on 
a follow up screen they would need to know three random characters of the customers 
memorable word to access their accounts. There may also be a requirement for a passcode 
to be entered if the website doesnt recognise the device the person is using. The passcode 
would be sent to the customer direct  for example a passcode could be sent to the 
customers mobile phone and therefore a fraudster would be unlikely to gain access to this.
Ive noted that Mr G says by including his User ID that this makes his bank account at risk at 
a vulnerable time but Im not persuaded by this. As Lloyds have already said they include 
some customer information in their emails. And theyve acknowledged its in relation to the 
pandemic they sent out the email in question. So I dont think its unreasonable that they do 
this to identify that its genuinely from them. If they didnt do this then some customers may 
fall foul to fraudsters who try to impersonate Lloyds by using generic information. So I think 
that by displaying some of the customers details, be it a User ID, part of a customers 
postcode or the last four digits of an account number, may, in some cases actually 
strengthen security as a customer will know the email is genuinely from Lloyds.
As Lloyds hadnt displayed Mr Gs User ID in previous correspondence I can understand 
why Mr G would be concerned with the email he received contained this. But just because 
Lloyds havent included this previously doesnt mean that they have made an error or have 
compromised his security.
Our investigator also explained to Mr G that Lloyds have a fraud guarantee in which they 
state we'll refund any money you lose if you do all you can to keep your details and devices
safe. So I hope this would reassure Mr G that there are safeguards in place which Lloyds 
offers if the worse was to happen. But based on the reasons Ive already given Im not 
persuaded that his security has been compromised by including his User ID in an email sent 
to him.Ive noted Mr Gs strength of feeling regarding Lloyds not answering his three questions. 
They apologised that they hadnt responded to him earlier. They said that because of the 
pandemic they had prioritised customers in financial difficulties and they had reduced 
staffing levels. Theres no doubt that this will have been frustrating for Mr G not receiving a 
reply to his questions. But just because a business makes a mistake, this doesnt mean they 
should always pay compensation  or that itd be fair for this service to tell it to do so. And I 
dont think itd fair or proportionate for me to tell Lloyds they should do that here.
I say this as Lloyds already explained in their final response letter to Mr G that the email he 
received was genuine and they had confirmed this with their online banking team. Ive 
considered the impact that this wouldve had on Mr G and while it would be no doubt 
frustrating to him to wait for the answers to the questions hes asked, Im satisfied theres 
been no financial detriment to him here. So it follows I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman