DRN-3035012
The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with
Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc (TFS).  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint earlier this month. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Mr S took receipt of a used car in January 2020. He financed the deal through a hire
purchase agreement with TFS.
In November 2020 Mr S broke down and his car was recovered to a dealership. He paid to
have the engine stripped down and the dealership noted a piston had disintegrated and the
car would need a new engine.
TFS said that as the car had been in Mr Ss possession for 10 months it was for him to
demonstrate the fault was present when the car was supplied to him. They thought the issue
was likely to have been caused by wear and tear.
Our investigator didnt think the car had proven to be durable but as TFS disagreed the
complaint has been referred for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion, but I dont agree with the amount of compensation
she suggested, and I think Mr S has incurred some consequential losses that he should be
allowed to recover. Please let me explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered the whole 
file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then TFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. It says that when
we consider whether goods have been of satisfactory quality we should think about whether
they have been durable.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr S. The car here was about
six years old and had completed about 30,677 miles.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to
assume it was present at the point of supply, when TFS were responsible for its quality. But
as Mr Ss car failed after six months the law puts the onus on him to demonstrate the fault
was developing when the car was supplied to him.
I think the bar is low here as I dont think a reasonable person would expect a cars engine to
fail catastrophically after only 34,707 miles. I think a reasonable person would expect a cars
engine to last significantly longer than that.
An independent inspection was considered but I can understand why the investigator
thought it wouldnt add value. The inspector had confirmed that they wouldnt be able to
comment on when the fault was likely to have occurred as the engine was in a stripped down
state.
On the evidence available to me and on balance, I think this car hasnt been durable and
that it therefore wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied.
The relevant legislation gives the business one opportunity to fix a problem that is present at
the point of supply. But it also says that repairs should be carried out in a reasonable space
of time. Mr S has not been able to drive his car since November 2020 and I dont think thats
reasonable, so I think TFS should now allow him to reject the vehicle.
Theyll need to end the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr S.
As Mr S hasnt been able to use the car since November 2020 TFS should refund any
finance instalments hes paid since that time in respect of the lack of use hes had from the
car. And as Mr S has been deprived of that money theyll need to add interest to the refund.
They should also refund the deposit Mr S has paid and, again, as hes been deprived of that
money TFS should add interest to that refund too.
Mr S has been inconvenienced by these issues. Ive read that hes had to use public
transport since his car broke down and he doesnt appear to have been provided with a
courtesy car. He also needed to be recovered by breakdown services and hes had to wait a
long time to have the issue resolved. Ive considered our published guidance on levels of 
distress and inconvenience. I think here that theres been significant inconvenience and
disruption that has needed a lot of extra effort to sort out. Problems have persisted for many
months and, in the circumstances, I think TFS should pay Mr S more than the £250 our
investigator suggested. Im expecting to tell TFS to pay £500 in compensation.
Mr S has incurred some consequential losses that our investigator didnt consider. He paid
£408 to have the engine stripped and the fault diagnosed, and that cost was only incurred as
a consequence of the car being of unsatisfactory quality. So, Im expecting to tell TFS to
refund that money and to add interest to that refund.
Mr S also paid for a recovery truck to transport his car from the dealership to his home. Ive
not seen an invoice for that but if Mr S can provide one Im expecting to tell TFS to refund itwith interest.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Toyota
Financial Services to:
allow Mr S to reject the car and end his finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mr S;
refund any finance instalments Mr S has paid since November 2020 in respect of 
lack of use. Add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
refund any deposit that Mr S paid and add 8% simple interest per year to that refund
from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr S £500 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced;
refund the invoice value of £408 incurred by Mr S to have the engine stripped. Add
8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of
settlement;
refund the recovery truck costs Mr S incurred on provision of a receipt. Add 8%
simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of
settlement;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ss credit file in relation to
these issues.
If HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from the interest Im expecting to ask
them to pay, they must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax they have taken off if
he asks for one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S explained, amongst other things, that he didnt have a receipt for the recovery of his 
vehicle but that it cost him £40. 
TFS also provided some information. They couldnt understand why I would consider the 
fault likely to have been present at the point of supply when the independent inspector had 
explained it would not be possible for him to establish that. They said the Consumer Rights 
Act (2015) put the onus on Mr S to prove the fault was present when the car was supplied to 
him. And they argued that there are many components of an engine that would be classed 
as wear and tear. They said Mr S could have obtained an extended warranty for the car but 
chose not to seek that protection.
Im not persuaded by TFSs arguments. Mr S needed to demonstrate that the car hadnt 
been suitably durable and as Ive explained, I think the bar was low there as I dont think a 
reasonable person would accept that a car had been durable if its engine failed 
catastrophically after less than 35,000 miles. It was a piston that had disintegrated, and I 
dont think thats the type of component that we could fairly expect to wear that significantly 
in such a short space of time. The presence of a valid warranty isnt relevant here. Whilst 
that would undoubtedly have provided more protection for Mr S it didnt negate TFSs 
responsibility for ensuring they provided a car of satisfactory quality. I dont think this car was 
of satisfactory quality. Mr S hasnt got an invoice for the recovery of his car to his home address. Ive thought about 
whether it is therefore fair to ask TFS to repay his costs and I think it is. The car wasnt 
driveable and couldnt be stored at the garage without incurring storage costs. If storage 
costs had been incurred I would have asked TFS to refund them as I think they could 
reasonably have been considered to be incurred as a consequence of the cars failure. But 
storage costs havent been incurred here because Mr S arranged to move the car. In those 
circumstances he would inevitably have incurred some costs and I dont think £40 is 
excessive. I think TFS should refund that but as Mr S hasnt been able to supply an invoice 
Im not asking them to add interest to the refund.
Putting things right
So, I havent been persuaded to change my provisional decision and that now becomes my 
final decision on this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and to tell Toyota Financial 
Services to:
allow Mr S to reject the car and end his finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mr S;
refund any finance instalments Mr S has paid since November 2020 in respect of 
lack of use. Add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
refund any deposit that Mr S paid and add 8% simple interest per year to that refund
from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr S £500 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced;
refund the invoice value of £408 incurred by Mr S to have the engine stripped. Add
8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of
settlement;
refund the recovery truck costs Mr S incurred of £40;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ss credit file in relation to
these issues.
If HM Revenue & Customs requires Toyota Financial Services to take off tax from the 
interest they must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax they have taken off, if
he asks for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman