DRN-3588452
The complaint
Mr F complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) didnt uphold a chargeback request for an 
overcharge. He would like the overcharge refunded and compensation  for the 
inconvenience of poor customer service and disappointment .
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat then again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Mr F doesnt feel TSB treated him fairly. I have no evidence to support 
TSB didnt take Mr Fs chargeback request seriously or didnt respond to him in a 
timely manner. From TSBs customer notes its clear it asked Mr F several times for 
information in January and  March 2021 to pursue his claim but didnt receive what it 
needed to do so. It then reviewed Mr Fs claim in May 2021 issuing its final response 
later that month. TSB could have sent a final response letter sooner than it did as its 
last request for information was on 2 March 2021 but I think it was reasonable for it to 
wait some time to give Mr F the chance to provide the evidence it needed, I dont 
think TSBs actions were unreasonable or that its actions give grounds for 
compensation. And whilst we appreciate customers can be disappointed in decisions 
businesses make that, in itself, isnt a reason for us to award compensation.
In terms of the chargeback this scheme is a voluntary one, but we do expect 
businesses to use this scheme if there is a reasonable chance of success. From 
what I understand TSB were unable to progress a chargeback request as Mr F didnt 
provide the information for it to do so. I can see TSB asked for the invoice, 
confirmation of the dispute and response from the merchant. The scheme does 
expect evidence from both parties so without this TSB wouldnt have been able to 
pursue the chargeback request at that point.
TSB then investigated the chargeback request again but confirmed it couldnt pursue 
it as Mr F made his payment by Chip and PIN so at the time of the transaction would 
have agreed with this amount. I think this was reasonable as Mr F would have seen 
what amount he was being charged and could have refused to do the transaction if 
he didnt agree with the amount being charged.
I have gone onto consider the chargeback rules and if there were other grounds 
under which TSB could have pursued a claim for Mr F but dont think there are. Mr F 
has told us he was overcharged but the scheme rules state that in this case there 
needs to have been a mistake in the payment charge but thats not the case here. 
The invoice Mr F has provided matches the payment he made. Also the 
advertisement for the service states the fee is from £69.99 which implies the final 
fee may be higher  Given Mr F paid for a car service I think he might reasonably have 
expected the final charge could be in excess of the £69.99 figure depending on the 
state of his vehicle and any work required which wouldnt be evident until the service 
had been carried out. 
Considering all the information I have seen I dont believe , even if Mr F had given 
TSB all the information it required when it first asked for it, that there were grounds 
for a successful chargeback claim. I dont think TSB acted incorrectly and so I cant 
reasonably ask TSB to refund the overcharge as Mr F would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman