DRN-3714087
The complaint
Ms P complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund the money she lost in a 
scam.
What happened
In January 2021 Ms P received a message through an instant messaging service that said, 
Hi mum its me. The next text explained that their phone had broken, and this was the new 
number. Ms P assumed the texts were from her son who was abroad, as her other son had 
messaged her earlier that day. Sadly, the messages were actually from a fraudster. 
Ms P made the following payments as part of the scam:
Date Amount Payee
10/01/21 £920 1
10/01/21 £1,260 1
10/01/21 £1,680 2
10/01/21 £2,234  blocked 2
Total £3,860
Santander blocked the fourth payment, so Ms P had to call to discuss it. While she was 
waiting for Santander to answer her call, she exchanged messages with her other son and 
asked him to make the payment. Ms Ps other son didnt agree to make the payment without 
knowing what it was for and who the recipient was. He also pointed out that the reasons 
given for the payments, that Ms P had shared with him, didnt sound urgent. It was during Ms 
Ps call with Santander about the blocked payment that it came to light she was the victim of 
a scam. 
Santander contacted the bank that received Ms Ps funds but was advised that no funds 
remained to return to Ms P. It refunded 50% of her loss (£1,930) because it said it could 
have done more to flag and prevent the payments to the scammer. But Santander said Ms P 
should share liability as the scammer didnt say anything to persuade her he really was her 
son, and she did nothing to verify that it was. 
Ms P was unhappy with Santanders decision and brought a complaint to this service.  
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that Santander do 
anything more. She said Ms P didnt have a reasonable basis to believe she had been 
contacted by her son and didnt take any steps to verify this. The investigator also noted that 
Ms P didnt ask any questions about the payments she was asked to make or about the 
payees. 
Ms P didnt agree with the investigator and asked for a final decision, so her complaint has 
been passed to me to consider. She said that she thought it was her son and knew he was 
suffering with his health, job and because of Covid. And she had seen examples on 
television of other customers of Santander who had received a full refund so doesnt 
understand why her case is different. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment. 
Santander is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (the CRM Code). This code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victim of authorised push payment scams, like the one Ms P fell victim to, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. And it is for Santander to establish that one of those exceptions to 
reimbursement applies. Under the CRM Code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a 
customer if it can establish that: 
- The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
- The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate 
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but they dont apply here. 
Did Ms P have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments?
This was a cruel scam and Im sympathetic towards the situation Ms P finds herself in. But I 
need to consider not just whether Ms P believed she was sending money to her son, but 
whether it was reasonable for her to do so. 
Ms P has provided the messages she has retained but there are gaps. So, for example, Ms 
P hasnt been able to provide the message in which the scammer first asked her for money. 
But the majority of the messages exchanged between Ms P and the scammer have been 
shared with Santander and this service.
The messages start with, Hi mum its me so I can understand why Ms P initially thought 
they were sent by a son who was abroad. Ms P has explained that shed spoken earlier to 
her other son so didnt think the message was from him. But the scammer doesnt appear to 
have known any personal details about either Ms P or her son. There arent any details or 
circumstances in the messages from the scammer that are particular to Ms Ps son, or 
anything else in the messages to suggest who they are coming from. So I think Ms P ought 
reasonably to have had some concerns.
I havent seen the first payment request so have had to base my decision on what I consider 
most likely given the other evidence I have. But Ive seen messages after Ms P had made a 
payment in which Ms P told the person she thought was her son that if they needed any 
other bills paid to tell her and shed pay each one separately. The scammer then asked Ms P 
to help with another payment and said it was the last one  but it needed to be paid that day. 
Ms Ps response was, Sure. Whatever you need. The scammer then provided the details of 
a second payee and the amount to transfer. After this, the scammer told Ms P she was going 
to hate him, but he had one more payment to make and Ms P said shed pay as many as he 
liked. This payment was then blocked. Given the lack of discussion about the later payments I think its likely Ms P didnt question 
the reason for the first two payments or why they needed to be paid so quickly. The 
scammer told Ms P hed repay her in two days, but she didnt question why the payments 
couldnt wait until then and the scammer didnt explain the reason for the urgency. And I note 
that Ms P told her other son in a separate exchange of messages that she hadnt asked 
what the payments were for and wouldnt.
Ms P was also asked to send funds to two accounts, each in the name of an individual (and 
not her son). Ms P didnt ask the scammer why the funds werent going to his account or 
enquire about the involvement of these other people. When the final payment was blocked 
and Ms Ps other son asked her to find out the reason for it the scammer told Ms P the 
payments were for a laptop, a watch and a phone. At this point Ms P questioned why the 
payments were to an individual  but by this stage all the payments had been made. 
I appreciate that Ms P thought she was communicating with her son. But I think there were 
enough red flags that she ought reasonably to have made further enquiries before making 
the payments. In the circumstances, Im persuaded that Santander acted reasonably in 
relying on an exception to reimbursement set out in the CRM Code.  
I understand that Ms P says other victims of the same type of scam have received a refund 
from Santander. But each case is considered on its own merits and the circumstances and 
messages exchanged will differ. 
Did Santander meet its obligations under the CRM Code or otherwise? 
Santander says it could have done more to prevent this scam from taking place and has 
already refunded Ms P 50% of her loss. This is what I would award if I was satisfied that 
Santander failed to provide a warning or to intervene earlier. In the circumstances, I cant 
reasonably ask Santander to do anything more.  
Recovery
Ive also considered whether Santander could have done more to try to recover the money 
Ms P lost once it was clear that she was the victim of a scam. This service expects a 
business to take reasonable steps to try to recover the money from the bank it was sent to. 
Santander has shown us that it emailed the bank the money was sent to once it was told of 
the scam but was told no funds remained. Ive also seen evidence from the bank that 
received the funds Ms P sent which shows that by the time the scam was reported to 
Santander the funds had already been removed from the receiving account. In the 
circumstances, Im satisfied Santander did what it could to recover Ms Ps funds.
Overall, whilst Im very sorry Ms P has lost money in this cruel scam, I cant reasonably ask 
Santander to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman