DRN-2624305
The complaint
Mr P complains about Axa Insurance UK Plcs decision to decline a claim for fire damage 
under Ls buildings insurance policy. L is a business that Mr P is a director of. 
What happened
Mr P purchased a property through L in 2015. Mr P carried out renovation works between
2017 and 2018, with the intention to sell it. The property was vacant at the time. Unable to
sell it, Mr P rented the property to a tenant who hed been introduced to by someone hed
met at an auction.
Unfortunately, in February 2019, Mr P was contacted by the police. He was told a fire had
occurred at the property, and there was evidence of illegal growing of cannabis which most
likely caused the fire. So, Mr P went to the property and contacted AXA to make a claim.
AXA appointed a loss adjustor and a fire forensic expert to assess whatd happened. AXA
also asked Mr P for a statement about how he came to find the tenant who he said was
living in the property at the time the fire occurred. They also asked for the tenancy
agreement. Mr P appointed his own loss assessor.
AXA received reports from their agents and a statement from Mr P. Following this, they
declined the claim. They said Mr P hadnt complied with the general conditions of the policy
because hed failed to take reasonable precautions to safeguard the property from loss or
damage.
AXA said they arrived at this decision because they didnt think Mr P carried out reasonable
checks on the tenant and continued to rent the property. Nor did he put in place adequate
checks on the condition of the property whilst the tenant was in situ. They also alleged
potential fraud but are yet to reach a decision on this aspect of their investigation.
Mr P disputed this. He said he was desperate to find a tenant for his property and was
satisfied the tenant was genuine when they met. Mr P also said he wasnt aware the
property was being used for the purposes of illegally growing cannabis or had any reason to
check the property whilst the tenant was in situ. So, he brought a complaint to this service for
consideration.
An investigator here considered the complaint. He didnt agree with AXAs decision to
decline the claim. He didnt feel Mr P had breached the general conditions of the policy and 
so he recommended Axa should reconsider the claim. Mr P accepted this, but Axa didnt. 
AXA maintained Mr P acted recklessly by failing to carry out reasonable checks on the
tenant  which resulted in him failing to safeguard the property from loss or damage. They
provided a detailed response setting out their view on the failings in this regard.
I set out my provisional findings on 26 January 2021 and my findings are set out below. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point here is Ls buildings insurance policy. This provides cover for, amongst
other things, loss or damage as a result of a fire. But the policy also sets out general
conditions that apply to the policy. These say:
If You or Your family do not comply with them We may at Our option cancel the
Policy or refuse to deal with your claim or reduce the amount of the claim payment
3. Taking care of Your property
You and Your family must take and cause to be taken all reasonable precautions to
avoid injury loss or damage and take and cause to be taken all practical steps to
safeguard all the property insured from loss or damage. You must maintain the
property insured in good repair. If You fail to comply with any of the above duties this
insurance may become invalid
The policy doesnt say specifically what checks a policyholder must carry out to verify a
tenant. But it does say that AXA is entitled to refuse a claim if a policyholder hasnt taken
reasonable precautions to safeguard the property from loss or damage. I think this term is
fair provided an insurer can demonstrate theyve applied it reasonably. And in this case, I
currently think AXA has, which differs to the view reached by our investigator. Ill explain
why.
Before I do, its important to note here that Mr P is a director of L which holds several
properties for lettings. I also note from the file that Mr P unfortunately experienced a similar
incident with a different property prior to this where a fire occurred, and there was evidence
of illegal growing of cannabis. I think this is relevant to this case given Mr P had experienced
this before, and therefore wouldve been aware of the potential risks involved.
Whether Mr P took reasonable precautions to safeguard the property from loss or damage
Mr P said as he was unable to sell the property, he decided to rent it out to a tenant. I
understand hed previously met someone at auctions whod told him that they had someone
living with them, theyd just entered the country and needed somewhere to live. They also
had a wife and two children abroad that were due to join them. So, Mr P arranged to meet
the potential tenant and the person from the auction.
Mr P met the tenant who paid £2,000 as a deposit. Mr P asked the tenant to provide him with
some further documentation. When they met again, the tenant provided a foreign
Identification Card (ID) and said they didnt hold a bank account. My understanding is Mr P
didnt carry out any financial or background checks on the tenant before the tenant moved in.
Had he done so, I think on balance this wouldve highlighted several concerns that may have
impacted his decision to let the property to the tenant. Because Mr P didnt carry out what I
consider to be reasonable checks, this led to him giving control to a tenant that caused
damage to the property.
The tenant paid Mr P a further £2,000 but this wasnt put into a Tenancy Deposit Scheme,
which Mr P said the tenant understood. The monthly rental price was agreed at £2,000 per
calendar month and this was agreed to be paid by cash, as the tenant said they didnt hold a
bank account. The tenant moved in around July 2019.AXA says the rent wasnt always paid directly by the tenant  it was also given to Mr P by
the person hed met at auction. AXA says this shouldve flagged up to Mr P as a concern, as
his other tenants pay by standing order or bank transfer. Therefore, it was unusual for
someone to pay quite a substantial amount of money in cash. AXA said the only way Mr P
could show this money was paid was through a handwritten document he used to keep up
with payments. And his bank account showed irregular sums of money being deposited into
his account on various days of each month. Mr P said the rent was due around the 24th of
each month and this wasnt always paid into his account straight away.
AXA also raised concerns that Mr P didnt ask further questions about the ID the tenant
provided. The tenant said theyd only arrived into the country recently but didnt produce a
passport as a form of ID. When AXA looked at the ID the tenant provided, they said it was
clear this was a false document which Mr P shouldve investigated further.
The tenant also provided Mr P with a payslip from their employer. AXA also considered this
as part of their investigation. They said the payslip showed a false bank account, an invalid
National Insurance number and a discrepancy between the payment amounts the tenant
received. They also contacted the company named on the payslip who confirmed that this
was false.
AXA also said the payslip wouldve shown Mr P that the tenant was most likely unable to
afford the monthly rental based on their monthly income. However, they said the tenant was
able to pay Mr P £4,000 upfront as a deposit and paid £2,000 in cash per month.
Ive considered the payslip the tenant provided Mr P. And I think on balance Mr P couldve
done more here to challenge the information the tenant presented. This is because the
payslip showed a bank account number for the tenant where wages were being paid into.
However, the tenant had previously said they didnt hold an account and were paid by cash.
I dont find it unreasonable to say that Mr P shouldve carried out further checks here or
contacted the employer to verify the tenants employment, given the information didnt
corelate with what the tenant had previously told him. I also think a financial check wouldve
most likely shown the tenant was unable to afford the agreed rental price.
AXA also presented further concerns with the statement Mr P provided. They said hed given
control of his home to someone he didnt reasonably verify, through a contact hed made at
an auction. When AXA asked Mr P for details of the person hed met at the auction, he was
unable to provide details such as their last name or previous conversation history by phone.
AXA raised concerns about Mr P allegedly removing this information from his phone given it
couldve assisted the police in their investigations.
Mr P didnt arrange any property checks to ensure the property was being well-maintained
by the tenant. Mr P said hed assumed the person hed met at the auction was checking the
property but had no written agreement in place to this effect. To give some balance to this
dispute, Mr P was satisfied the tenant was genuine when they met and didnt have any
reason to be concerned that the property was in a poor state or being mis-used. But I think
Mr P satisfied himself that the tenant was genuine without carrying out reasonable checks in
order to do so.
To summarise this aspect of the complaint, Ive given a lot of thought to whether I think AXA
has applied the above policy terms fairly. Based on the information I currently have available
to me, I think they have. I think the concerns AXA raised about the lack of reasonable
checks carried out by Mr P demonstrate he didnt take reasonable precautions to safeguard
his home from loss or damage. In fact, its most likely that the damage was caused to the
property as a result of the tenant that Mr P gave control of the property to. Control of the
property was given to somebody that Mr P didnt reasonably verify, who he was introducedto by someone who hes also been unable to verify, that ultimately gave rise to the claim.
There remains an outstanding question here as to what exactly caused the fire at the
property. I can see the fire brigade initially said it was due to electrics. But AXAs forensic
expert said it most likely started in the front bedroom due to an ignition of combustible
material coming into contact with high powered bulbs during the process of illegally growing
cannabis. But they also said they couldnt rule out that the fire mightve been caused,
deliberately or accidentally, by someone in the house. Either way, its more likely than not in
my view based on the fire brigades and AXAs forensic expert, that the cause of the fire was
as a result of the illegal growing of cannabis in the property.
The tenancy agreement
As part of the terms and conditions, AXA asked Mr P to provide a copy of the tenancy
agreement. There was some delay between AXA requesting this, and Mr P providing it.
When received, AXA said the agreement was witnessed by a person whod worked for Mr P
for several years. In order to verify this, AXA contacted the witness who was able to verify
that it was their signature on the document. But AXA said the witness couldnt verify that
they knew who the tenant was. Ive also seen from the notes that there was an altercation
during this between AXA and Mr P who was with the witness when they were asked to verify
the tenancy agreement, and the tenant.
With regards to the tenancy agreement, for clarity, the policy terms say:
8. Let Property
It is a condition precedent to Our liability that

d) There is in place a minimum of a six month Assured Short hold Tenancy
Agreement as defined with the Housing Act 1988 (as amended) or its equivalent
outside England and Wales directly between the landlord and the tenant (unless it is
a short period holiday let.
As Mr P was able to produce a tenancy agreement  whilst I note AXAs concerns with the
witness not able to verify the tenant  I think hes met the term cited above. But I dont think
this means AXA should pay the claim based on this alone. This is because, as set out
above, there are several concerns AXA has raised here which I think demonstrates Mr P
didnt take reasonable precautions to safeguard the property from loss or damage.
AXA alleging fraud
I note AXA has also alleged fraud here and referred to the policy terms in respect of this.
However, I also note that theyve not concluded their investigations into this part of their 
review, and so this is not something I will comment on in this decision.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both Axa and Mr P responded to my provisional decision. Axa said they accepted what Id 
provisionally said, but Mr P didnt. 
Mr P responded to say he was seeking legal advice. But following that, no further response 
was given by Mr P and so our investigator contacted him. Mr P responded to our investigator 
to say he didnt agree with my provisional findings and felt it was unfair for him to be 
penalised given the tenant had provided him with false information. Mr P maintains that a fair 
outcome is for Axa to accept the claim. Mr P also said he was unhappy Axa sent an agent to the home of the person whod signed 
the tenancy agreement as a witness. He felt the agent was threatening when they 
approached the witness to the tenancy agreement who he said is elderly with medical 
conditions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the points made by Mr P following my provisional decision. But I dont agree 
these points change my view on the fair and reasonable outcome of this complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
I set out in detail within my provisional decision why I think the concerns Axa raised 
demonstrate that Mr P didnt take reasonable precautions to safeguard the property from 
loss or damage. The points Mr Ps raised since I set out my provisional decision doesnt 
persuade me to agree Axa acted unfairly by declining the claim in this respect. 
I remain of the view that Mr P didnt carry out reasonable checks. He gave control of the 
property to somebody I dont think on balance he reasonably verified, who he was 
introduced to by someone who hes also been unable to verify  which ultimately gave rise to 
the claim. 
Mr P raised further concerns about Axas decision to send an agent to the home of the 
person who witnessed the tenancy agreement when it was put in place. Mr P said the agent 
that attended was threatening towards the witness. Ive seen from the claim notes that Axa 
also made reference to an altercation during this visit between their agent and Mr P who was 
also present. 
The policy terms say that a tenancy agreement is required. I can see Axa took the decision 
to verify the agreement by speaking to the person who signed the agreement as a witness. I 
dont think this was an unreasonable step for Axa to take given the concerns highlighted 
within my provisional decision. 
I explained within my provisional decision that I felt Mr P had met this part of the policy as a 
tenancy agreement was in place. However, given the other concerns raised about whether 
Mr P took reasonable steps to safeguard the property from loss or damage, I cant agree 
with Mr P that Axa acted unfairly by declining the claim for the reasons set out above. 
Whilst this complaint point isnt something Mr P has previously raised, I dont think this 
changes the outcome of the complaint.
I appreciate my decision will come to disappoint Mr P. But my decision ends what we  in 
attempting to resolve his dispute with Axa  can do for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Liam HickeyOmbudsman