DRN-4299982
The complaint
Mr B and Miss D have complained about a secured loan they have that was administered by 
Target Servicing Limited.
What happened
Mr B and Miss D took out the loan in April 2007. They borrowed £67,000 (plus PPI) over 200 
months.
Whilst the loan had been taken out with a different lender it was subsequently transferred to 
Picture Home Loans, and the lender appointed Target to administer the loan on its behalf.
The account went into arrears in 2008, and between May 2010 and October 2017 (inclusive) 
no payments were made. By October 2017 the arrears were around £78,000.
A possession hearing was set for November 2017, but it was adjourned when Mr B agreed 
to start making payments again. Payments recommenced the same month, but at a level 
lower than the normal contractual monthly payment due.
The loan was transferred to a new lender on 24 September 2022.
One of my Ombudsman colleagues issued a decision about our jurisdiction in June 2023. In 
that she said we could consider the following complaint points:
Mr B and Miss D are unhappy that Target checked their credit status without their 
permission.
That Target sent a field agent to their home, and they were charged for the visit, despite 
having told Target that they didnt want the visit to happen.
Mr B and Miss D are unhappy with what Target has asked of them in relation to paying 
the arrears on the loan as this would mean them being unable to pay their unsecured 
debts.
The fact that Target has threatened repossession and Mr B and Miss D feel that it is 
trying to force them out of their home.
Mr B and Miss D are not happy that Target wont correspond by email  while it doesnt 
consider email is secure enough, they are willing to take that risk, but Target still 
refuses. Instead, it sends correspondence by second class post, which they say either 
doesnt arrive or takes two to three weeks to do so. This has made it impossible for 
them to adhere to deadlines that have been set.
Target wouldnt provide them a minimum figure the lender would accept to settle the 
account.
Our Investigator then looked at those points and didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr B and Miss D didnt agree and so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B and Miss D have continued to correspond about the decision my colleague reached 
about our jurisdiction to consider this complaint. There has to be some finality in our process 
and it wouldnt be appropriate for us to continue to correspond about the same matters once 
an Ombudsman has issued a decision on them. 
Having reviewed my colleagues decision I cant see that shes erred in her understanding of 
our rules, or in how she has applied them. I agree with the decision that she reached.
As I agree with her findings, this decision wont be answering Mr B and Miss Ds various 
questions that relate to the areas we cant consider, such as whether the companies have 
the right to the loan, and why a claim wasnt made under the PPI policy. I also wont be 
considering Targets complaints procedure, for the same reason.
Target checked Mr B and Miss Ds credit status without their permission
Mr B and Miss D signed their loan agreement on 12 April 2007. There is a section in the 
agreement entitled Customer Declarations and Consents which says
Before signing this Agreement, You should read and understand the terms and conditions 
of the Agreement set out on this page and overleaf under the heading terms and 
conditions. By signing this Agreement You consent to Our using Your data in accordance 
with the How we will use Your Information sheet. You also consent to Us collecting and 
sharing information about You with third parties (including, but not limited to, credit 
reference agencies, fraud prevention agencies, Your employer and Your existing 
mortgagee) for the purposes of prevention or detection of fraud, Our assessment of Your 
application for finance and for the ongoing management of Your account. You 
acknowledge that We may assign or otherwise transfer the benefit of this Agreement to any 
other person. You acknowledge that We can disclose to any such person (and that 
persons representatives, advisors and rating agencies) any information obtained by Us as 
a result of providing this Loan.
From this we can see that Mr B and Miss D agreed, when taking out the loan, that 
information could be collected and shared about them as part of the ongoing management of 
their account, and that one party that could involve could be a credit reference agency.
In addition, clause E of the terms and conditions states 
 If You fail to do anything that You are required to do by this Charge, or the Agreement 
secured by this Charge, We may, at Our discretion and without obligation, take whatever 
action We deem necessary to remedy that failure.
Having considered everything, I dont think it was unreasonable for a credit check to be 
carried out due to the account conduct and contact that had been had between the parties, 
and this was allowed for under the terms of the agreement Mr B and Miss D entered into.
The field agent visit
A letter was sent to Mr B and Miss D on 19 July 2021 which said:We have tried to contact you on a number of occasions without success. Your account 
remains in arrears by £59,612.87.
As we have been unable to contact you, we will instruct a field agent to contact you and 
arrange a convenient time to visit you at home to discuss any difficulties you may be 
experiencing at present.
The cost of the visit is £120.00, inclusive of VAT, and this will be applied to your account 
following the visit. If you do not want a field agent to visit you, please speak with one of our 
Arrears Management team on [number] within 7 days of the date on this letter. Were open 
from 8am to 8pm Monday to Thursday, 8am to 6pm Friday and 9am to 1pm Saturday.
It doesnt appear that Mr B and Miss D contacted Target in response to that letter and so the 
field agent was instructed on 29 July 2021.
The company that had been instructed for the visit  which Ill refer to as company A  wrote 
to Mr B and Miss D on 10 August 2021. Mr B emailed company A on 23 August to say:
I have received your letter dated 10/08 on Wednesday 18/08 and can confirm we do not 
wish a representative to visit our premises.
Please advise what you require, and we will endeavour to assist. Please also confirm how 
you and not Picture are now dealing with this matter and what sort of assistance you can 
offer and how you fit into this matter.
A representative from company A then visited the property on 31 August with the notes of 
the visit saying that the representative spoke to a male at the property who wouldnt provide 
the information requested to verify his identity. This meant the visit was curtailed.
Mr B and Miss D have said they wanted all communications to be in writing, which is why 
they emailed rather than phoned. That is Mr B and Miss Ds choice, but unfortunately the 
consequences of that are that a field agent fee was incurred as they didnt follow the correct 
process to cancel it, and more importantly they didnt do so in a timely manner so the field 
agent had already been instructed and the fee had become payable.
The terms and conditions of the account allowed for such visits to be undertaken (clause E 
as detailed previously), and for any costs incurred to be charged to the loan account under 
condition 7.1
You will pay to Us any and all reasonable costs and expenses We incur in enforcing Our 
rights under this Agreement including, but not limited to, the costs of telephone calls or 
letters to remind You a payment is due, finding You if You move and do not tell Us, taking 
reasonable steps (including court action) to obtain payment of any sums owed by You, or 
handling Monthly Repayments not made by direct debit or refused by Your bank.
Whilst Mr B and Miss D sent an email asking that the visit be cancelled, it was sent about a 
month late and to the wrong business. For the visit to be cancelled without charge Mr B and 
Miss D needed to phone Target on the number provided by 26 July. Instead, they emailed 
company A on 23 August.
Having considered everything I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
The amount Target asked Mr B and Miss D to pay to the loan each monthThis loan is secured on Mr B and Miss Ds property and is considered to be a priority debt. 
Non-priority debts are things like credit card balances, unsecured loans and debts owed to 
family and friends.
The credit search indicated that Mr B had taken out a new unsecured loan in October 2021 
(paying £345 a month towards that), with all the payments on that and their various credit 
card debts all being up to date. It is important to note that, at this point, this secured loan 
was around £59,000 in arrears with monthly payments of £200 being made against a 
contractual monthly payment of around £830. Mr B and Miss D said they could increase their 
monthly payments to £500 for around six months whilst they repaid money they owed to 
Mr Bs family, and then to £700 a month once his family had been repaid.
Priority debts should be paid first so it wasnt unreasonable for Target to ask Mr B and 
Miss D to make higher payments than they wanted, rather than paying money to unsecured 
creditors, including Mr Bs family. Thats because those higher payments were shown to be 
affordable if Mr B and Miss D werent, instead, prioritising their non-priority debts.
If Mr B and Miss D are at all unsure on this point and require independent advice about the 
priority of  and dealing with  their debts, then I can only recommend they contact a debt 
advice service. Further details can be found at www.gov.uk/debt-advice.
Having considered everything, I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
Mr B and Miss D feel that Target is trying to force them out of their home
Wed expect a lender to look at offering help to consumers going through a temporary 
problem, especially in situations where it can be seen their situation is likely to improve. The 
problem here is that Mr B and Miss Ds difficulty in getting on top of their arrears was 
anything but temporary. Theres no doubt theyve gone through difficult times. The pressure 
to make their loan payments against such a backdrop must have been immense for them, 
and Im not unsympathetic towards Mr B and Miss D in that regard. But my impartiality 
means I must also have regard for the lenders point of view. 
From the lenders side, Mr B and Miss D owed it money and for many years they hadnt met 
all their contractual repayments. For a period of over seven years (from May 2010 until 
October 2017) no payments were made at all to the loan. By November 2017, when Mr B 
and Miss D agreed to start making payments again to avoid possession action, their account 
was around £78,000 in arrears. Having considered everything it seems the lender showed a 
great deal of patience and leniency towards Mr B and Miss D for a number of years; it wasnt 
obliged to do so indefinitely. 
Since then, despite the income and expenditure assessments showing the full loan is 
affordable, Mr B and Miss D still havent resumed making their full contractual monthly 
payment. Instead, it seems, prioritising paying their unsecured non-priority debts.
Having considered all that, I wouldnt say the lender acted inappropriately in moving things 
forward and, in 2017, arranging a court hearing for possession and then later warning Mr B 
and Miss D about the risk of possession action being taken. A final notice was issued in 
December 2021, and further action was deferred whilst a payment plan was under 
discussion between the parties.
At the point the loan was transferred to the new lender (in September 2022) no formal 
possession proceedings had been undertaken (other than the November 2017 hearing 
which was adjourned). Letters giving updates about the status of the account had to be issued, and other letters 
would also include a warning at the end about the risk of repossession; a warning that 
Target was required to give all its customers receiving that type of letter by the regulator.
Having considered everything I dont think Target acted inappropriately here and so I dont 
uphold this part of the complaint.
Target wont correspond by email
Mr B and Miss D wanted Target and the lender to communicate with them only by email. 
They said they wanted things in writing, but that post either doesnt arrive or takes too long. 
Target said it (and the lender) cant communicate with them by email as it is not a secure 
medium.
Targets concerns about email communications are legitimate ones for it to have. Many 
companies dont want to send sensitive personal information by email, and Target does have 
obligations to protect Mr B and Miss Ds confidentiality. I therefore wouldnt have been 
prepared to direct that Target must communicate only by email, irrespective of Mr B and 
Miss D giving their consent to do so. However that point is now moot as the loan has been 
transferred to a new lender.
Having considered everything, I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
Target wouldnt provide a minimum figure to settle the account
In a call in February 2022 Mr B asked Target how much would be accepted in full and final 
settlement of the debt, and then sent an email to Target in March 2022 saying
If we were able to raise the funds, can you advise what is the minimum figure you would 
accept as a 'full and final settlement' i.e. £0.10 in the pound.
In the final response letter of 26 April 2022 the lender explained why it couldnt provide a 
minimum figure, instead Mr B and Miss D needed to provide a figure they were able to pay 
(plus supporting information)
You have asked what we would accept as a full and final settlement. We are unable to 
provide you with a figure to pay as we are unable to provide financial advice. Any offer to 
settle the account would need to come from yourself and be reviewed along with 
supporting information and documentation.
Mr B and Miss D have said We did make an offer in writing, albeit a little 'tongue in cheek' of 
10p in the pound.
An email was sent to Target on 23 May 2022, saying
 we have asked you to provide us with a figure that you would accept as a full and final 
settlement on the account. You have declined to provide a number so subject to the 
various investigations by the ombudsman we will offer 10% of the outstanding amount. 
Please confirm your acceptance of this to allow us, once all the various investigations are 
complete and all parties are satisfied with the outcome to look at raising these funds to 
settle this matter once and for all.
Whilst I can understand why Mr B and Miss D feel this should have been treated as a formal 
short settlement offer, I dont agree. It wasnt an offer that they were willing to fulfil at that 
time (they wanted to delay until after our service had decided the complaint and all parties are satisfied with the outcome) and they didnt have the funding in place to make the 
payment (they were talking about looking at raising the funds).
For a short settlement offer to be considered Target would have needed detailed information 
including evidence of where the funds were coming from, and a deadline would have been 
set for the funds to be paid over to Target. Having considered the May 2022 email, Mr B and 
Miss D werent ready for a formal short settlement offer to be made and accepted as they 
still needed to look at raising funds and didnt want to make payment until our service had 
completed its investigation.
I acknowledge Mr B and Miss D wanted to pay as little as possible, that is entirely 
understandable. But this was a secured loan where Mr B and Miss D had originally borrowed 
£67,000 (plus PPI) and, by the time the loan was passed to the new lender in September 
2022, theyd only made around £47,500 in payments. That was £19,500 less than theyd 
originally borrowed, with only around 15 payments left in the loan term. By that point, if Mr B 
and Miss D had made all their payments in full and on time, they should have paid about 
£100,000 more than that.
The income and expenditure information indicated that the full monthly payment was 
affordable if Mr B and Miss D prioritised this loan over their unsecured debts, and Target 
noted the value of similar properties in the area indicated there was likely to be sufficient 
equity to repay the loan if the property was sold.
Lenders dont have to accept short settlement offers, and having considered everything it 
doesnt seem unreasonable that the lender wouldnt have been willing to accept just 10% of 
the sum outstanding here, albeit it doesnt seem that it communicated that to Mr B and 
Miss D.
I acknowledge that Target didnt respond promptly to Mr B and Miss Ds emails about this, 
but there was no financial loss incurred due to the delay as Mr B and Miss D werent in a 
position to go ahead with a short settlement at that time (for the reasons Ive explained 
above) and I dont think it is likely Target would have accepted such a low offer (and I 
wouldnt have said it was wrong not to do so).
I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss D 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman