DRN-3486249
The complaint
Mr M complains about the correspondence he received from Zopa Bank Limited in relation to 
a loan it arranged for him.
What happened
Mr M took out a loan which was arranged by Zopa. During the Covid-19 pandemic, Zopa 
agreed to a payment arrangement where Mr M paid reduced monthly payments towards his 
loan from May to July 2020. Zopa said Mr M then went back to making contractual 
repayments towards the loan, and it also set up a separate plan for him to make additional 
payments to clear the shortfall accrued over the payment arrangement period. 
Mr M complained to Zopa, and then this service, about the correspondence he was 
receiving. In summary he was unhappy he was receiving notifications about missing 
payments and arrears, when he was actually in an agreed payment arrangement with Zopa. 
He also raised concerns about how the arrangement would affect his credit file.
An investigator here reviewed things and explained that whilst Mr M was making reduced 
payments through an arrangement, his contractual loan payments were being missed and 
the remainder would make up Mr Ms arrears balance. She acknowledged the confusion this 
caused, but thought it wasnt an unusual practice. She also thought Zopa had clearly 
explained that the arrangement wouldnt negatively impact Mr Ms credit file. In further 
correspondence, she noted that Mr M remained unhappy with the wording used in the letters 
and explained that this service wasnt a regulator, so couldnt make a business change the 
wording it chose to use. All these concerns form the subject of a separate complaint with this 
service. 
Some months later, Mr M raised further concerns. He was unhappy hed received further 
correspondence about his loan, despite previously raising concerns about this. He was 
unhappy about the continued reference to missing payments and arrears, and he thought 
the tone of the correspondence was judgemental. Mr M also highlighted that there was an 
error where the correspondence said he was late making a payment when he says he 
wasnt.
Zopa reviewed Mr Ms complaint and, in summary, explained that it had a legal obligation to 
make him aware of any arrears on the account. It further explained that the arrears had built 
up as a result of not meeting the contractual loan payments whilst there was an arrangement 
in place. 
Zopa did, however, accept that the covering letter that was sent alongside this incorrectly 
stated that Mr M had missed a payment when he hadnt. Zopa explained that whilst the letter 
was issued on 9 December 2020, it had been generated before this, and before Mr Ms 
payment had been received on 8 December 2020. Zopa apologised for the error caused and 
offered Mr M £50 compensation. 
In further correspondence, Zopa also said it had escalated Mr Ms concerns to the 
appropriate team to ensure the issue didnt happen again. It also issued additional 
correspondence outlining that whilst it didnt think it had made an error by sending Mr M 
correspondence about the arrears on his account, it would reduce the communication to that 
which was only regulatory.
Mr M remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
reviewed matters. In summary, she explained that it wasnt for this service to tell a business 
to change the wording in correspondence it sent to customers. She also didnt think Zopa 
was sending excessive communications about the account. She acknowledged that the 
letter from December 2020 was sent in error as Mr M hadnt missed a payment, but she 
thought the £50 compensation Zopa had offered in respect of this was fair. 
Zopa didnt dispute our investigators findings, but Mr M did. In summary, he repeated his 
earlier points and thought that some aspects of the complaint were missing from the initial 
investigation. He also said that since the complaint has been with this service, Zopa had 
sent further correspondence which he was unhappy with.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has made reference in his submissions to previous concerns he has raised with Zopa 
about similar issues. Whilst I accept this is useful context to the more recent issues that have 
occurred, those complaint points form the subject matter of another complaint with this 
service. Therefore, Ill make no findings in relation to those complaint points, including, but 
not limited to, matters that took place up until the date that the investigator issued her 
opinion in relation to the other case. My decision will focus on the more recent issues that 
Mr M has raised. And, Ill focus on what I deem to be the crux of that complaint.
I note Mr M says he would like the level of compensation offered to be significantly impactful 
to Zopa, to deter it from continuing to send correspondence in the manner it has. Its 
important for me to explain that any awards we make for compensation are not designed to 
be punitive. We are not a regulator, and we cannot punish businesses. Our approach in the 
first instance is to review the issues at hand, and then consider what we feel might be fair 
compensation where appropriate, taking into account the impact of any shortcomings on the 
customer.
Zopa explained that whilst Mr M was in a payment arrangement during the Covid-19 
pandemic, he wasnt making the contractual repayments towards his loan when they were 
due. Therefore, the shortfall which accrued during the period made up Mr Ms arrears 
balance. With that in mind, I dont think Zopa treated Mr M unfairly by sending him 
correspondence, through various channels, which referred to the arrears which had accrued 
over the arrangement period. 
Mr M says he thinks the purpose of the correspondence sent is to place blame on the 
customer. I acknowledge that the correspondence has caused Mr M upset, but Im not 
persuaded this is the intention behind the correspondence. Im persuaded the purpose is to 
keep customers updated about their repayments on their loan and provide them with 
updated information about the loan status. Ive also noted that in the letters Mr M was 
receiving, there is a section which states the following:Please note that if you are making payments under an agreed arrangement through 
a Debt Management Company or Zopa directly, you do not need to contact us as this 
notice is to provide you with information on the status of the loan arrears.
I think the above clearly outlines that the purpose of the correspondence is to keep Mr M 
updated with the status of the loan. So, overall, I dont find the contents here unreasonable. 
And, as I understand it, Mr M was previously advised that Zopa may continue to send him 
correspondence about the arrears on the account moving forward. 
As I understand it, Mr M received similar correspondence some months later. But, for the 
reasons Ive already outlined, I dont think Zopa has acted unreasonably by sending him this.
That being said, the covering letter which was included with the correspondence sent to 
Mr M in December 2020 was inaccurate as it said he was late making a payment, when this 
wasnt the case. With this in mind, I can understand why Mr M was frustrated about this 
letter, particularly as hed already made Zopa aware of the upset its correspondence was 
causing him. So, I think its right that Mr M is paid some compensation for these 
shortcomings. Zopa has already offered Mr M £50 compensation. Having thought carefully 
about the circumstances, I think this is fair, and Zopa should arrange to pay Mr M this 
amount if it hasnt already.
As I understand it, the payments which were missed over the arrangement period have now 
been made in full. Therefore, Mr M shouldnt receive any further correspondence on this 
matter moving forward.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and require Zopa Bank Limited to pay Mr M £50 
compensation for the error in the correspondence it sent him, if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman