DRN-3248333
The complaint
 Mr D complains about how Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi 
Financial Services (VWFS) dealt with matters when his car finance agreement ended.
What happened
 In March 2017 Mr D entered into a personal contract purchase agreement (PCP) for a new 
car. The cars cash price was £39,713. Mr D was required to pay £602 per month with a final 
optional payment of £21,850.
The agreement was due to end in April 2020. In March 2020, Mr D told VWFS that he 
intended to return the car as he had ordered a new one but its delivery had been delayed 
due to the Covid-19 pandemic. He said he would need use of the existing car while he 
waited for the new one. Mr D said he had to tax the car for six months from March 2020, 
make sure it had its MOT and also insure it.
In April 2020, Mr D contacted VWFS to say the final payment of £21,850 had been debited 
from his bank account and he had to reverse the transaction via his bank. He complained. 
VWFS said they attempted the payment but it wasnt taken as the direct debit had been 
cancelled.
In May 2020, Mr D tried to contact VWFS to let them know the new car was due to be 
delivered therefore he could give the existing one back but he wasnt able to speak to them. 
He spoke to the dealership who contacted VWFS on his behalf. VWFS said until they could 
arrange for the car to be collected, Mr D should keep it safe, he isnt required to insure it and 
where possible keep it off the road. In June 2020, Mr D returned the car to the dealership 
and he said they told him there was no damage to the car. 
The car was eventually collected from the dealership and inspected in August 2020. 
Damage was found to the door, one of the wheels and the front screen moulding. VWFS 
said Mr D was required to pay £194. Although he paid it, he disputed these charges.
 
Mr D was unhappy he received arrears letters while he was waiting for the car to be 
collected. Even once he had settled the agreement in August 2020, he was told he owed 
£10. In December 2020 and more recently in November 2021, he received account 
statements showing an outstanding balance of £21,665. As far as Mr D was concerned, he 
owed no further money and hes worried about the impact this was having on his credit file.
Mr D complained. VWFS said due to the pandemic they were experiencing delays and they 
apologised for the difficulties he had contacting them. They said arrears letters were 
automatically sent and when the agreement ended in April 2020, the final payment became 
due. As the car handback process wasnt completed until August 2020, the final payment 
was considered as arrears. Lastly they said they would ensure any adverse information 
would be removed from his credit file. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr D referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case was partially upheld. They said VWFS shouldnt have attempted to 
take the final payment but as it wasnt taken, there was no financial impact on Mr D. They 
said the arrears letters were correctly sent but VWFS shouldve made it clear to Mr D that he 
should disregard them. Lastly, they said the damage charges had been fairly applied but 
VWFS should remove the option to purchase fee for £10 as the car was returned. 
Mr D disagreed, in summary he said:
- The final payment was debited but he had to reverse the transaction;
- When he returned the car to the dealership they said there was no damage and it 
was with them for two months, he didnt cause the damage;
- VWFS had recorded adverse information on his credit file and they only brought this 
to his attention in their final response;
- He has incurred out of pocket expenses such as tax, MOT and insurance;
- VWFS had caused him stress and worry and this hadnt been taken into account.
In November 2021, I issued a provisional decision and said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I intend to uphold Mr Ds 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr D acquired the car under a regulated car finance agreement so I can consider this 
complaint against VWFS.
End of the agreement
On 23 March 2020, the UK government imposed a nationwide lockdown. This meant the 
operations and resources of financial business, like VWFS, were significantly impacted. This  
included temporary closures, reduced staff, delays to delivery and collection and increased 
queries from customers. VWFS said this was the case here and given these wider 
circumstances, I find it reasonable VWFS operations and resources were negatively 
impacted. 
Having reviewed VWFS contact notes, Im satisfied Mr D had made it clear in March 2020 
by email that although he planned to return his existing car at the end of the agreement, he 
needed to keep it while he waited for the new one. However I cant see VWFS specifically 
replied to him about this. I wouldve expected them to have responded and confirmed 
whether or not they agreed to let him keep the car for longer but there is no evidence this 
happened.
Approximately a month later, the final payment was taken from his account. VWFS said this 
was only attempted but Mr D has provided a copy of his bank statement and Im satisfied the 
payment was indeed taken. Given what Mr D had already told them, I dont think it was fair 
for VWFS to debit this amount. I wouldve expected them to have put arrangements in place 
to make sure this payment wasnt taken. Because they didnt, this led to Mr D having to 
make arrangements via his bank to reverse the transaction. Fortunately they were able to do 
so on the same day so the impact was minimised but I can understand the upset and worry 
this caused Mr D, especially as it was a significant sum. 
Mr D said because he had difficulty speaking to VWFS he contacted the dealership and 
based on VWFS contact notes, I can see they were in communication with them by email in 
May 2020. VWFS advised Mr D didnt need to keep the car insured however he wasnt 
legally allowed to drive it and he must ensure the car is kept safe until a collection date could 
be arranged. They also said where possible to keep the car off the road and if stolen or 
damaged, he should let them know immediately. VWFS also said if the tax expires before its 
collected, he should tax it as usual for six months and they will refund the cost of it subject to 
proof.  I note despite Mr D letting VWFS know about the situation in March 2020, this information 
wasnt provided until May 2020. I understand due to the Covid-19 pandemic, they wouldve 
been very busy with queries but this was a significant delay and Mr D said he followed the 
advice of the dealership as he couldnt contact VWFS and they said to continue using the 
car until the new one was delivered. In the circumstances, although I cant hold VWFS 
responsible for what the dealership said, I think Mr D acted reasonably in the circumstances. 
As its both legal and contractual requirements for a car to be taxed, MOTd and insured, I 
believe Mr D acted correctly in ensuring this happened in March 2020. As far as he was 
concerned, these costs were unavoidable especially as he planned to use the car.
According to government records, the car passed its MOT on 27 March 2020. Mr D said as 
the car was over three years old, it needed to have its first MOT. As the MOT was due and 
he planned on using the car, I dont think its fair to say VWFS should refund him this cost. 
He has provided evidence he taxed the car on 27 March 2020 for six months at a cost of 
£79.75. I believe its fair he pays for the tax during the time he used the car, that is, up to the 
point he returned it to the dealership in June 2020. VWFS should refund him the rest of the 
tax cost on a pro rata basis. 
Although he hasnt provided any evidence, Mr D believes his insurance policy cost around 
£230 for the year. Its unclear whether this policy was transferred to the new car or it was 
cancelled and he received a rebate. However as he continued to use the car up to the time it 
was returned, I think its fair he pays for the insurance so I wont be asking VWFS to 
reimburse him this cost. Its also worth pointing out that for the additional time Mr D had the 
car, there is no indication VWFS charged him for this period so I cant say they acted 
unfairly.
Arrears communication 
While waiting for the new car to be delivered and the existing one to be collected, arrears 
letters were sent to Mr D. VWFS said these are automatically generated meaning it couldnt 
be stopped. Theyve explained because the car handback process wasnt completed until 
August 2020, the account was considered in arrears. As I would expect VWFS to let their 
consumers knows about any arrears, I dont consider they were sent in error. However I 
think they couldve let Mr D know this would happen and he could disregard them while the 
handback process was ongoing but there is no evidence this happened. Given the situation I 
wouldnt expect it to report as adverse information on Mr Ds credit file. VWFS has confirmed 
theyve recorded the agreement as being settled in April 2020 with no adverse information 
recorded on Mr Ds credit file so I think this is fair.
Even once the agreement was eventually settled in August 2020, VWFS sent letters saying 
£10 was still owed. Mr D said he didnt know what this related to. VWFS told our service this 
is the option to purchase fee and its required for them to act as an agent and sell the car on 
Mr Ds behalf. However I dont believe its fair for VWFS to rely on this term. This is because 
Mr D didnt purchase the car meaning it remained VWFS asset so I cant agree they would 
be acting as his agent to sell it as it was never his to begin with. Therefore I believe this 
charge should be removed and I understand VWFS has already done so following the 
investigators opinion.
 
Ive seen copies of account statements sent to Mr D dated December 2020 and November 
2021 showing an outstanding balance of £21,665. However VWFS has confirmed the 
agreement was recorded as being settled in April 2020 with a zero balance. Therefore its 
unclear why such letters continue to be sent, I wouldnt expect this to happen and I can 
understand why Mr D is frustrated by it. So I ask VWFS to ensure their records are updated correctly and no further letters are sent to Mr D about money still owing in relation to this 
agreement. 
Damage charges
The terms of the agreement say: 
You will be responsible for any damage to or deterioration of the vehicle which is in excess 
of fair wear and tear commensurate with the age and mileage of the vehicle.
When considering what is fair wear and tear, our service takes into account the guidance 
published by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). This is industry 
guidance which sets out what is considered fair wear and tear when new cars are returned 
at the end of their agreements so Ive taken this guidance into account.
Mr D said when he returned the car to the dealership in June 2020, they told him there was 
no damage. Although I accept this may have been the case, its the role of VWFS agents to 
thoroughly inspect the car then its VWFS responsibility to say whether any damage found is 
chargeable.
Right front door
The appraisal report says there is a scratch on the right front door. Having reviewed the 
pictures, I can see the scratch as reported. The BVRLA says scratches of 25mm or less 
where the primer or bare metal is not showing are acceptable provided they can be polished 
out. Based on the measuring tool shown next to it, its clear the scratch exceeds 25mm so I 
find VWFS are entitled to charge for it. 
Screen front moulding
The appraisal report says the moulding is missing from the front screen and it needs to be 
replaced. As this part of the car is missing, I believe its reasonable for VWFS to say this 
cant be considered fair wear and tear therefore they are entitled to charge for it. 
Left front wheel
The BVRLA guidance says scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel are 
acceptable. I can see there are a few scuff marks around this wheel which I believe is in 
excess of 50mm so Im satisfied VWFS can charge for this damage.
While I accept the car was at the dealership for a couple of months before it was collected, 
on balance given the car had been in Mr Ds care for over three years, I find it more likely 
than not the damage was caused while in his possession. 
Im satisfied VWFS fairly applied the end or contract charges for damages and Im satisfied 
they arent excessive nor unreasonable. I understand Mr D has paid this amount and 
according to him, the dealership said they would reimburse him as they didnt believe there 
was damage to the car. As this was an agreement between Mr D and the dealership, I cant 
hold VWFS responsible for this.
Summary
Overall, I find VWFS are entitled to charge for the damage. While I recognise the impact of 
the Covid-19 pandemic on their operations, I believe the service provided to Mr D was at 
times below what I would expect. 
My role isnt to punish VWFS for these failings but instead consider the impact the situation 
has had on Mr D. He had to arrange for the payment to be reversed, VWFS didnt respond to 
his communication, hes receiving incorrect information about the account balance, I think the option to purchase fee was incorrectly applied meanwhile he was worried about the 
impact on his credit file. In light of this, I believe VWFS should also pay £100 compensation 
to Mr D for the trouble and upset caused. 
Response to the provisional decision 
Mr D accepted the findings. He commented VWFS should put in place processes to stop 
automatically generated mail in cases similar to his as they are upsetting. VWFS responded, 
in summary they said:
- The option to purchase fee of £10 had already been removed from the account;
- It was Mr Ds responsibility to cancel and claim back any unused tax from the government. 
VWFS couldnt be held responsible for him not doing so;
- The account was settled with a zero balance in April 2020, Mr Ds credit file also reflects 
this. They can arrange for a hold to be placed on any further correspondence being sent;
- They agree to pay £100 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I thank both parties for their response. In regards to Mr Ds comments, as explained by the 
investigator, it isnt our services role to tell VWFS what business processes they should 
implement. However I do expect them to take into account the findings of this decision.
In relation to what VWFS has said, Mr D has confirmed he didnt claim a refund for the road 
tax. I find this to be consistent with his earlier testimony. I also note VWFS had previously 
advised the dealership that if the tax expired before its collected, he should tax it as usual 
for six months and they will refund the cost of it subject to proof. So I can understand why Mr 
D didnt claim back the tax himself.  
I still consider my findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Therefore, my final 
decision is the same for the reasons as set out in my provisional decision.
 
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint.
To put things right, Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services should:
-Reimburse Mr D for the cost of the cars tax from June to September 2020 (subject to 
proof being provided) plus pay 8% simple interest per year from June 2020 up to the 
date of settlement.
-Update their records to show the account was settled with a zero balance and to put 
arrangements in place to make sure no further correspondence is sent about an 
outstanding balance; 
-Pay £100 compensation to Mr D for the trouble and upset caused.
If VWFS considers tax should be deducted from the interest part of my award it should 
provide Mr D with a certificate showing how much it has taken off, so he can reclaim that 
amount if he is entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman