DRN-4210506
The complaint
Miss S has complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) wont refund a 
withdrawal she says the cash machine did not dispense. 
What happened
Both sides are familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief. 
On 3 February 2023 Miss S tried to withdraw £240 at a cash machine. She says that when 
the cash wasnt dispensed, she tried again a few minutes later and this time the £240 was 
dispensed. However, she then discovered that both lots of £240 had been debited from her 
bank account. 
Virgin Money found that records for the cash machine used by Miss S on 3 February 2023 
showed both withdrawals were made successfully, and no errors were identified. It said 
there was no evidence of a banking error and pointed out that Miss S regularly withdrew 
£500 from cash machines. 
Miss S maintained she hadnt received the first £240 and wanted Virgin Money to refund her. 
Our Investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Miss S 
didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
Miss S maintained the cash machine hadnt dispensed the first £240. She said she didnt 
receive any receipts and the machine she used had regular reported problems. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator  and for largely the 
same reasons. I realise this will be very disappointing for Miss S and Id like to assure her I 
havent taken this decision lightly. 
In doing so, Ive very carefully considered all the evidence provided and if I dont mention a 
particular point, its not because I havent considered it, but Ive focussed instead on what I 
believe to be important to the outcome of this complaint. 
I appreciate Miss Ss strength of feeling  and I dont underestimate the significance of the 
£240 to her. But I need to look at things objectively. Essentially, I can only tell Virgin Money 
to refund the disputed £240 if the evidence supports that it was not dispensed to Miss S.
According to the cash machines electronic records, Miss S put in her card and PIN at 14.35 
and 14.37 on 3 February 2023 and each time asked to withdraw £240. Ive no reason to 
doubt Miss Ss testimony that she didnt get a receipt for either transaction, but I can see the 
withdrawals were accepted, and two lots of £240 were dispensed. This also shows as two 
debits on Miss Ss bank statement, and the total amount requested is consistent with her 
previous cash machine activity.
I appreciate Miss S recalls the cash machine making a strange noise and the cash dispenser 
not opening after she made the first request for £240. And I can see from the cash machine 
data that errors have been reported previously. But the records Ive seen dont suggest the 
machine experienced any errors in relation to the two transactions made by Miss S. In 
addition, the customers immediately before and after Miss S were able to use the machine 
without any issues.
So, the evidence I have strongly supports that Miss S asked for two lots of £240 and that the 
cash machine gave it out. And Ive not seen anything which shows or substantiates that any 
of the cash did not get dispensed. So, I dont have a fair basis on which to tell Virgin Money 
to refund the disputed £240. 
This is a difficult message for me to give. But given the evidence I have and the balance of 
probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion. 
Taking all the evidence into consideration, I dont think this is a case where it would be fair 
and reasonable for me to ask Virgin Money to refund the £240 to Miss S.
So, Im not going to tell Virgin Money to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint in this case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman