DRN-4004504
The complaint
Mr W complains about advice he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC in 2007 when taking 
out a level term life insurance policy.
What happened
In 2007 Mr W took out a level term life insurance policy after speaking with Barclays.
In June 2022 Mr W complained to Barclays saying the policy had been mis-sold. Mr W 
thought the policy would last for the whole of his life, but the cover was ending as it was a 
term policy. Part of the complaint was also that Mr W was forced to take out the policy.
Barclays said that a level term policy was suitable and there was no evidence that it was 
compulsory for Mr W to take the policy. They acknowledged that the sum assured was 
£95,000 while the outstanding mortgage was £100,000 on an interest only repayment basis.  
So whilst the sum assured shouldve been higher this discrepancy didnt cause Mr W a 
financial loss. Barclays also paid Mr W £100 for delays when looking into the complaint.
Mr W remained unhappy so brought his complaint to this service where one of our 
Investigators looked into what happened. They thought the policy provided adequate cover 
and was suitable. Whilst there was a mismatch with the sum assured Mr W didnt suffer any 
financial loss. They also didnt see any evidence from the time about Mr W being pressured 
into taking the policy. Mr W disagreed saying he couldnt remember the meeting with the 
adviser.
Because an agreement couldnt be reached the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has provided a lot of information about the complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
he feels about what happened. I want to assure Mr W that Ive read and considered 
everything thats been provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised some of 
what happened which reflects the informal nature of our service and no discourtesy is 
intended.
The sale took place in 2007 which is some 15 years ago so its unsurprising there isnt a full 
record of what happened. Where the information about what happened is incomplete, 
unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here, Ive come to a decision based on the balance 
of probabilities about what I think is most likely to have happened.
In 2007 Mr W was taking out a mortgage loan to replace a previous business overdraft. 
Initially the loan application was for £95,000 which increased to £100,000 before it was 
approved and funded. The loan was on an interest only basis meaning the capital would 
remain the same for the term of the loan. 
As part of the process Barclays recommended a level term life insurance policy. Being level 
term meant the sum assured would remain the same for the term and match the outstanding 
loan amount. I think this is a suitable recommendation as Mr W was self employed and the 
policy covered both life and terminal illness. The policy and the loan both had a term of 15 
years.
Mr W says he thought the policy would last for the whole of his life and he didnt know it 
would end after 15 years. Looking at the documents from time I think its made clear this is a 
term policy. Ive seen nothing from the time to show this was a whole of life policy and the 
matching term of 15 years indicates the policy was taken out to match the loan. I think its 
important to say that a whole of life policy would most likely have been more expensive and 
also probably been subject to review. 
All parties agree there is a mismatch in the sum assured and loan amount. This seemingly 
came about because of an increase in loan amount during the application process. 
Thankfully Mr W didnt need to make a claim during the term of the policy so there wasnt a 
detrimental impact. I agree with Barclays that there is no financial loss here as a higher sum 
assured wouldve meant a higher premium. I can understand why Mr W is unhappy about 
this but Im satisfied the issue didnt cause a financial loss.
Mr W says he was pressured into taking out the policy. Looking at the documents from the 
time I havent seen any persuasive evidence that Mr W was told the policy was compulsory. 
The loan documents say Barclays recommend taking advice about cover for the term of the 
loan, which I think is sensible. But Ive not seen any evidence to show the sale was 
pressured or that the optionality of the policy wasnt made clear.  
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied Barclays treated Mr W 
fairly and reasonably and that the recommendation was suitable. Barclays have paid £100 
for the delays when looking into the complaint and I wont be asking them to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman