DRN-3681521
The complaint
Mr N complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) unfairly declined a claim for breach 
of contract under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75).
What happened
In March 2020 Mr N acquired a used car. He told us he paid for the car in part by using his 
credit card and for the remainder he used finance provided by a third party I will call C. C is 
also the supplier of the car.  Mr N complains that the car does not reach the quality standard 
he is entitled to expect. Mr N complained to Barclays. Mr N relies on Section 75 he suggests 
he has the protection of this provision because he used his credit card to acquire the car. Mr 
N also complains about the customer service Barclays provided.
Barclays declined to uphold Mr Ns complaint about the outcome of his claim under Section 
75. It came to this decision as it did not agree that Mr N has the protection of Section 75. But 
it apologised for dropping a call with Mr N by mistake, it offered Mr N £60 for this. Mr N 
rejected this offer.
Dissatisfied, Mr N complained to our service.
Once the complaint was with us Mr N also mentioned that in his opinion Barclays ought to 
have raised a chargeback to recover his money.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ns complaint. He did not recommend upholding it.
Barclays accepted this recommendation, Mr N did not. In short he reiterated his previous 
stance. He also complained about the actions of C.
Mr N indicated that he would like an ombudsman to take a fresh look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr N relies, in part on the rights he considers he has under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). Mr N concludes that he has these rights because of the type 
of finance he says he used, to acquire the car. The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mr 
N has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier, he can also 
bring a like claim against Barclays provided certain conditions are met, Ill talk more about 
these qualifying conditions below.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr Ns complaint, I can take 
relevant law into account. Section 75 is relevant law therefore Ive taken Section 75 into 
account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for example, a 
court might reach if Mr N pursued a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation. This 
service is an alternative to the courts.
One of the qualifying conditions for a successful claim under Section 75 is that there must be 
a very specific type of relationship in place. This relationship is known as a debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship. In this instance Mr N would have to be the debtor, Barclays the creditor 
and C the supplier. This is because Mr N complains about the quality of the car he acquired 
from C. But his payment from his credit card went to an unrelated third party who I will call 
R. Therefore on the face of it the transaction was not set up in such a way that Mr N 
benefits from Section 75.
Moreover, it is not just a question of who Mr N made the payment to, there is also the 
question of what contract was involved. I say this because although Mr N tells us that the 
credit card payment went towards the contract for the acquisition of the car that is not what 
the information I have got available to me shows. I say this because based on the written 
documents the payment Mr N made to R was not a part of the contract with C for the 
acquisition of the car, this would also be a bar to his claim under Section 75.  
For all of these reasons, I dont uphold this part of Mr Ns complaint. I find that there is no 
valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship here. It follows I have no proper basis for saying 
that when I take relevant law into account, including but not limited to Section 75, 
Barclaycard ought to take responsibility for what may have gone wrong in the contract 
between Mr N and C.
Mr N mentions chargeback. As Mr N paid using his credit card and wanted a refund, 
Ive thought about whether Barclays dealt with his request fairly. Chargeback is a way 
in which payment settlement disputes are resolved between card issuers and 
merchants. They are dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules.
I recognise that Mr N did not mention chargeback when he first complained. That said, 
in the circumstances, I would have expected Barclays to have considered this potential 
remedy nonetheless. It is in a bettter position than Mr N to know about this process. 
The chargeback process could have been relevant in this case.
In certain circumstances the process provides a way for Barclays  to ask for a payment Mr 
N made to be refunded. Those circumstances include where goods or services arent 
supplied or as described/misrepresented by the company Mr N paid. A chargeback 
doesnt guarantee a refund. Neither does Mr N have an automatic right to a chargeback. 
That said, in any event, Mr Ns situation does not fit into any scenario that would lead to a 
sucessful chargeback. In essence Mr N is asking Barclays to pursue R for a refund for 
something that he says C did wrong. This is not permitted under the relevant chargeback 
rules. 
In any event, even if such a chargeback request had been possible, which I dont find that 
it was, the information Ive got shows that the chargeback would have been out of time. 
So, on balance, it would not have suceeded on that ground too.
It follows that I do not find that Barclays acted incorrectly in relation to the potential 
chargeback.Mr N complains that he has not received the level of customer service he is entitled to 
expect. But in the circumstances I think Barclays has already made a fair offer in relation 
to this complaint point. Barclays has indicated that the £60 is still available. Should Mr N 
wish, on reflection to accept this offer, he needs to contact it directly.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman