DRN-3034227
The complaint
Miss B and Mr W complain that Fairmead Insurance Limited declined their claim for storm 
damage under their home building insurance policy.
Miss B is the main correspondent in this case, for ease I will refer to her throughout my 
decision.  
What happened
In January this year a retaining boundary wall at the front of Miss Bs home collapsed. She 
explains this was at the time of the named storm Christoph. The wall collapsed onto a 
public footpath adjacent to a main road. Miss B contacted the local authority to ensure the 
area could be made safe. At the same time, she tried to contact Fairmead to make a claim. 
She says it was difficult getting through on the phone delaying matters for around a week.  
Fairmead declined the claim for storm damage. It said storm conditions were not 
experienced in the area at the time of the wall collapsing. It also said the policy does not 
cover issues resulting from wear and tear or anything that happens over a period of time. 
Miss B paid for a structural engineer to report on the collapsed wall after her claim was 
rejected. The engineer says there was an extended period of heavy rain, compounded with 
water from melting snow. And it was the excessive precipitation coupled with existing 
saturated soil conditions that caused the wall to collapse. The surveyor says, In this 
instance, we consider that utilising a storm intensity is appropriate. 
Fairmead sent its own surveyor to inspect the damage. The surveyor wrote to Miss B to say 
the collapse of the wall resulted from a natural breakdown of materials. The letter says this 
was due to its height and the amount of soil it had been retaining. It says, Due to its age, 
lack of maintenance and roots present, the wall would have been moving over a period of 
time which has eventually caused the collapse. 
Miss B sought support from her local councillors, who wrote to Fairmead to say it should 
reconsider its decision to decline the claim. However, this didnt change its decision. Miss B 
explains she paid for the debris to be cleared from the footpath and road, and to provide 
temporary support in place of the collapsed wall.   
Miss B also complained about the delays and poor service she had received from Fairmead, 
and that the surveyor had spoken to her rudely. The company offered a payment of £50 for 
the communication issues but maintained its decline decision for storm damage.
Miss B wasnt happy with this outcome and referred her complaint to this service. Our 
Investigator decided Fairmead had acted fairly when declining the claim for storm damage. 
He said the criteria for storm conditions hadnt been met, and the explanation of a gradual 
cause over time, was persuasive. But he decided communication had been of a poor 
standard and thought a payment for £100 in total was appropriate to acknowledge this.
Miss B disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. It 
has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold the complaint in part in relation to the standard of 
service and communication. But I dont uphold the complaint about the declined claim. I 
appreciate Miss B will be disappointed with this outcome, but I will explain why I think this is 
fair.
My remit is to decide whether it was reasonable for Fairmead to decline Miss Bs claim for 
the reason it gave. Ive relied in part, on the expert reports provided by both parties to decide 
whether Miss B has shown an insured event occurred and whether Faimead has shown it 
relied on a valid exclusion. 
Storm damage
Miss B says the wall collapsed as a result of storm damage caused by heavy rainfall, 
combined with melting snow. The policy provides cover for, the costs of unexpected loss or 
damage. The policy defines Buildings as, Your home, and its permanent fixtures and 
fittings including: i) tennis courts, terraces, patios, footpaths, drives, garden walls, fences, 
gates and hedges. Im satisfied the boundary wall, and storm damage is included in the 
cover provided. 
When looking at a claim for storm damage, I must consider the following questions. If the 
answer to these questions is yes, then Im likely to uphold the claim, if the answer is no, then 
its unlikely Ill uphold the claim:
 
1. Does the evidence show that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the 
damage is said to have happened?
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Fairmead provided records to show rainfall was recorded at 22mm in 24 hours, prior to the 
loss occurring. This is substantiated by the records I have been able to view. The highest 
wind speed recorded around this time was 40mph. 
The policy defines a storm as:
Wind speeds with gusts of at least 47mph/75kmh or torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 
25mm/one inch per hour or snow to a depth of at least one foot/30cm in 24 hours or hail of 
such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass. 
There was a period of strong winds and heavy rain prior to the loss occurring. But this did 
not meet the definition of storm, under Miss Bs policy. Fairmeads definition is not dissimilar 
to what this service considers to be storm conditions. 
Because of this I dont think Fairmead acted unfairly in declining the claim for storm damage.
I have thought about the information Miss Bs structural engineer provided. He says the 
combined effect of heavy rainfall, melting snow together with saturated soil, would increase 
the effective intensity greater than insurance guidelines. The surveyor recommended that 
this be brought to the attention of the loss adjusters for the claim to be reappraised. I acknowledge the point being made here. But I must consider what the policy terms say. In 
this case the weather records confirm the definition of storm conditions were not met  so a 
claim could not be accepted under this cause. 
Fairmead points to the following exclusion in the policy terms:
This policy covers the costs of unexpected loss or damage. It does not cover: Wear and 
tear; Damage that happens over a period of time for example damp, rot and
damage from vermin
Fairmeads surveyor said the wall collapsed as a result of a natural breakdown of materials, 
because of its age, lack of maintenance and roots that were present. In his view the wall had 
been moving over a period of time and this eventually resulted in its collapse. 
The report Miss B obtained from the construction services company says the wall either side 
of the collapsed section was, in a poor state of repair. 
I note Miss B highlights her structural engineers report that says prior to its collapse the wall, 
had been performing in a satisfactory manner.
Photos have been provided from after the claim, including views either side of the collapsed 
section of wall. In addition to a 2019 image from Google street view. I think its fair to say that 
the photos support the view that the wall was not in a good condition at the time of collapse. 
This is true for Miss Bs section of wall (from Google street view) and the sections of wall 
either side of her property.  
The wall was around 100 years old according to Miss Bs structural engineer. Having 
considered the expert opinions, and photos, I think Fairmeads assessment is persuasive 
that the wall is not in good condition. And that damage occurring over a period of time, has 
eventually resulted in its collapse following a period of heavy rainfall. 
Miss B has referred to maintenance that had been carried out to the wall. However, I havent 
seen evidence of what this entailed or when it took place. From the street view photo part of 
the wall appears to have had mortar added between the stones, compared with other 
sections that dont. I note Miss Bs contractor referred to the wall as dry of nature. It may be 
that some work was carried out at some point, but it hasnt been demonstrated that this was 
adequate to restore the wall to a good condition.  
Referring back to the third question from the list I set out above, even if I did take Miss Bs 
structural engineers view that the conditions at the time of the loss do support a storm claim, 
Im not satisfied these conditions were the main cause of the damage. Had the wall been in 
a good condition, the likelihood is that it wouldnt have collapsed. 
Communication/Service
When Miss B first tried to make a claim to Fairmead she says it took around a week to get 
through. She describes the worry she felt that the collapsed wall could cause a traffic 
accident as well as creating health and safety risks for pedestrians. I can appreciate this 
must have been a very stressful time for her, and this was made worse by the time it took to 
get through to Fairmeads contact centre. 
The company says this was a busy period for storm related events. It says this increased its 
call hold times and the possibility of delays. I acknowledge Fairmeads comments that this 
was a busy period, but it remains that Miss B didnt receive a good standard of service. 
Given the circumstances this made a difficult situation more stressful for her. I agree with our Investigator that a compensation payment for £100 is appropriate to acknowledge this.
When Miss B was eventually able to contact the company, it was able to quickly confirm the 
claim had been declined. She raised concerns that it took some time for it to send a surveyor 
to inspect the damage. However, the claim was declined at her first contact based on the 
lack of storm conditions. The surveyors visit was later arranged in response to Miss Bs 
structural engineers report. I dont think the company did anything wrong here.       
Finally, Miss B was unhappy with how Fairmeads surveyor spoke to her. She says he was 
rude when she said he wasnt providing an independent service because her insurer was 
paying him. 
I dont dispute Miss Bs recollection of what was said or how. But I have no other information 
to consider in relation to this point. However, as above I do think there is reason to increase 
the goodwill payment in light of the customer service issues. 
In considering all of this, I dont think Fairmead has acted unfairly in declining the claim for 
storm damage, but I do think it was unfair in the standard of service it provided.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Bs complaint in part and 
Fairmead Insurance Limited must:
provide a compensation payment of £100 (in total) for the poor service Miss B 
received.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman