DRN-3425686
The complaint
Mr K and Ms R complain that they were mis-sold insurance policies by Sainsburys Bank Plc 
because it offered insufficient protection for their requirements.
What happened
In December 2020, Mr K and Ms R purchased a property which required renovation work. 
The property was unoccupied during the renovation period and Mr K and Ms R wanted to 
purchase a buildings insurance policy that would insure their new property while no one was 
living there. 
Mr K and Ms R purchased an annual building insurance policy with Sainsburys after 
comparing the market online. They said they also took out Home Emergency Cover (HEC) 
and contacted Sainsburys to confirm that their policy would cover their property while it was 
unoccupied. Mr K and Ms R said that Sainsburys reassured them that the cover theyd 
found online suited their needs. 
Following their telephone discussion with Sainsburys, Mr K and Ms R finalised their 
purchase of the policy online. They paid a total of £177.22, which included payment of 
£34.99 for HEC.
Mr K and Ms R said that they received policy documentation, which they checked. Having 
done so, they say they thought their insurance matched their requirements. However, in 
June 2021, Mr K and Ms R said they became aware that there were exclusions in the policy, 
which hadnt been clear when the policy was initially taken out. They said that these 
exclusions meant that the policy no longer met their needs.
Mr K and Ms R contacted Sainsburys and requested a full refund of the policy. However, it 
offered to refund a much lower amount. Mr K and Ms R were unhappy with this and 
complained. They said that discovering that their policy wasnt suitable had caused distress 
and anxiety. They also stated that theyd encountered significant difficulties in discussing 
their concerns about their policy with staff and had incurred around 10 hours of time.  
Mr K and Ms R stated that they didnt receive a satisfactory response to the complaints 
theyd raised, so they referred it to our service. They stated that they wanted a full refund of 
the policy premium theyd paid and were also seeking payment of £50 per hour spent in 
dealing Sainsburys about their concerns. Mr K and Ms R also said they wanted our service 
to tell Sainsburys to review its policy wording and provide training to call centre staff.
After Mr K and Ms R brought their complaint to us, Sainsburys responded to their concerns. 
It disputed that it had mis-sold the policy and didnt uphold this aspect of Mr K and Ms Rs 
complaint. But it apologised for the difficulties theyd experienced during the complaint 
process and offered to pay them £50, which consisted of a small goodwill gesture and full 
refund for the HEC that had been taken out.
Mr K and Ms R were dissatisfied with Sainsburys response because they thought it had 
failed to address key complaint points. So, they asked our service to continue investigating 
the complaint theyd referred.
Our investigator looked into what happened and thought Sainsburys had provided clear 
information about the policy features and exclusions in the policy documents it had issued 
Mr K and Ms R at the point of sale. And they felt the onus was on Mr K and Ms R to read the 
documentation theyd received to ensure that the policy theyd purchased was suitable to 
their requirements. Overall, they werent persuaded that Sainsburys had mis-sold the policy 
Mr K and Ms R had purchased. And they thought the financial resolution it had offered was 
fair. Our investigator therefore didnt recommend upholding this complaint. But Mr K and Ms 
R disagreed and asked for their complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service is impartial, we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint, and we dont regulate or punish businesses. 
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Id like to thank Mr K and Ms R and 
Sainsburys for the level of detail contained within their submissions. Ive read and 
considered all the information provided and, if I havent specifically referred to a point that Mr 
K and Ms R or Sainsburys have made it isnt because I havent considered it. My decision 
will focus on what I think are the key issues, which is an approach that reflects the informal 
nature of this service.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr K and Ms R experienced here. I know they feel very 
strongly about this matter and I appreciate the reasons theyve brought their complaint to our 
service. But, while I sympathise with Mr K and Ms R, the issue that I must determine is 
whether I think Sainsburys made a mistake, or treated them unfairly, such that it needs to 
now put things right. In thinking about this, Ive considered things from both sides. 
As Ive set out in the background to this complaint, Mr K and Ms R took out their policy 
having compared the market online. While they contacted Sainsburys to ask for information 
about the policy but theres no call recording available to evidence what was discussed. And 
the fact that the policy was purchased online means this sale was conducted on a non-
advised basis. So, Sainsburys didnt recommend the policy or provide Mr and Ms R with any 
advice as to the suitability of the cover they were selecting. 
The fact that the sale was non-advised is crucial as this means Sainsburys didnt need to 
make sure that the policy it sold was suitable for Mr K and Ms Rs needs. It had a 
responsibility to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading so they could 
make an informed decision on whether the policy was suitable for them. 
Mr K and Ms R have said that they think Sainsburys should have controls in place to 
prevent/detect the purchase of add on products which are not compatible with the main 
product being purchased. But we dont regulate businesses and we cant generally tell 
insurers how to structure their sale processes. Ive already explained that this sale was non-
advised. So, the responsibility for ensuring Mr K and Ms R had the cover they required, 
rested on them.
Like many insurers that advertise policies for sale on price comparison websites, 
Sainsburys provides a brief list online of the features and exclusions of the policy. It isnt 
able to list every instance online where a claim wont be covered, which isnt unreasonable. Instead it provides policyholders with a brief list of scenarios in which a claim will be met as 
well as policy exclusions that apply. 
Sainsburys said it asks a policyholder to download and read the policy booklet, which sets 
out in detail the policy exclusions and how a claim would be settled in the event one was 
made. This is important because it enables a policyholder to make an informed decision 
about whether the policy theyve purchased provides adequate cover. And this is why 
insurers offer a cooling off period  during which a policyholder can cancel they policy 
theyve taken out without a financial penalty.
After Mr K and Ms R purchased their policy online, I can see Sainsburys issued them with 
an insurance pack. This was stored on the online portal and the pack is dated 7 December 
2020. It included, amongst other items, Mr K and Ms Rs policy booklet and schedule, a 
statement of fact and product information. This related to both the buildings insurance policy 
and HEC. On page two of the insurance pack I can see Sainsbury advises a policyholder to: 
read all the information weve sent you to make sure youve got the cover you need, and 
youre clear on the details.
I think this made it clear that Sainsburys wouldnt provide any advice on the suitability of the 
policy, and that it was for Mr K and Ms R to determine suitability for themselves.
Mr K and Ms R told our investigator Sainsburys online portal wasnt a user-friendly source 
and a fault on the system meant critical information about the policy and its exclusion 
clauses was hidden from view. 
Sainsburys has provided our service with evidence showing what Mr K and Ms R would 
have seen when accessing the online portal. I can see that on the right-hand part of the 
screen theres a section called important information. This is emboldened and includes 
information about home insurance products offered by Sainsburys. Policy documents can 
be downloaded easily from the online portal screen. 
I can see that the evidence Mr K and Ms R provided differs to that sent in by Sainsburys I 
say this because Mr K and Ms Rs screen shot has been cropped. So, Im not persuaded it 
presents an accurate picture of what they wouldve seen when accessing the online portal. 
The evidence Ive seen persuades me that Mr K and Ms R were able to access the online 
portal following the inception of their policy. I havent seen sufficient information to persuade 
me that information about exclusions was concealed from, or unavailable to, Mr K and Ms R 
as theyve stated. 
Sainsburys has said that if Mr K and Ms R couldnt access their policy documentation via its 
online portal it would have posted out copies had this been requested. Theres nothing to 
suggest this request was made.
Ive considered the policy documentation Sainsburys made available to Mr K and Ms R 
following the inception of their policy. This satisfies me that the information about what is 
included and excluded under the policy is clear and not misleading. Ill explain why.
The statement of fact that Sainsburys have provided our service shows that Mr K and Ms R 
were asked whether their home was left unoccupied for longer than 60 days. They answered 
yes to this question. So, Im satisfied that Sainsburys was aware that the property was 
unoccupied at the time the policy was taken out. I can see that an unoccupied property condition endorsement was applied to the policy that 
Mr K and Ms R took out. This states:
You have advised us that the property is unoccupied. We will not pay for loss or damage 
unless: 
i. An inspection of the buildings, internally and externally, is completed at least once every 
seven days by a responsible adult
ii. All external doors and windows must not be boarded, bricked or secured with any metal or 
timber sheeting, grills or shutters, to prevent unlawful entry
The endorsement is set out clearly within the statement of fact. And the buildings insurance 
product information document and terms of Mr K and Ms Rs buildings insurance policy 
confirm that any loss or damage to property where the building is unoccupied or unfurnished 
for more than 60 consecutive days is excluded. Its clear that the policy Mr K and Ms R 
purchased would only have been suitable if their property was likely to be unoccupied for 
less than 60 consecutive days.
The HEC insurance product information document states that a claim may not be made if the 
property has been unoccupied for more than 30 days. This information is also included 
within the statement of fact and policy terms. Its clear that HEC wasnt suitable for Mr K and 
Ms R given the length of time their property was likely to be unoccupied.
This all goes to satisfy me that Mr K and Ms R were provided with clear information about 
the limitations and policy exclusions that applied here. So, they were given an opportunity to 
exercise their right to cancel this policy without penalty during the cooling off period if they 
were concerned about the extent of cover for their unoccupied property. And they could have 
taken out more suitable cover elsewhere. I cant fairly hold Sainsburys responsible if Mr K 
and Ms R didnt notice the exclusions within their policy documentation.
I appreciate that Mr K and Ms R arent happy that the policy they purchased didnt give them 
the benefit of the cover they had wanted. But, having considered the sales process, and the 
policy terms and conditions, Im satisfied Sainsburys provided information to Mr K and Ms R 
in a clear, fair and not misleading way information to enable them to make an informed 
choice about whether the cover theyd purchased was suitable This means I dont think the 
policy was mis-sold.
I can see that Sainsburys has offered to refund the cost of the HEC. This isnt something Id 
have directed it to do as part of this decision because Ive explained why Im not persuaded 
the policy was mis-sold. However, it demonstrates that Sainsburys has acted 
sympathetically and fairly in response to Mr K and Ms Rs concerns about their policy.
I mentioned in the background to this complaint that Mr K and Ms R were unhappy with how 
Sainsburys dealt with and responded to their concerns. I can see Sainsburys acknowledged 
there were some service issues within their complaint handling process and its already 
offered to a small goodwill gesture in recognition of this. 
Strictly speaking, we dont have the power to look at how businesses deal with complaint 
handling  as its not a regulated activity under the legislation that governs our service. So, 
even if I did think Sainsburys hadnt done things well in this regard, I wouldnt be able to 
uphold that element of Mr K and Ms Rs concerns or make an award. I cant act outside the 
law. I therefore wont comment any further on how Sainsburys dealt with this complaint.I know that Mr K and Ms R will be disappointed by this decision. But I havent seen enough 
evidence to persuade me to uphold this complaint. Im not satisfied that Sainsburys acted 
unfairly. So, I wont be directing it to do anything else to resolve this complaint. 
This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Mr K and Ms Rs dispute with 
Sainsburys informally, can do for them. Im sorry we cant help Mr K and Ms R any further 
with this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman