DRN-3600636
The complaint
Miss A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund two transactions she says she 
didnt make and does not recognise. 
What happened
Miss A said that in February 2022, she transferred money into her Monzo account and 
shortly after, two transactions were made but not by her. She said she reported the disputed 
transactions to Monzo on the same day, as soon as she was aware of what had happened, 
but it had refused to refund the money.
Monzo said that the transactions had been authorised using 3DS verification, which requires 
access to the Monzo account via a registered device. It also confirmed that a Personal 
Identity Number (PIN) number was used to approve the transactions. As Miss A had 
confirmed that no one else had access to her phone or PIN It didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss A wasnt happy with its response so brought the complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it but didnt think that Monzo had done anything wrong.  As Miss A 
was still unhappy, she asked for the complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman, so the 
complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider good industry practice at the relevant time.
The key consideration for me is whether I think its likely Miss A made the transactions 
herself (or allowed someone to do them on her behalf) or whether it was likely done by 
someone else without her knowledge  and by extension, whether its fair for Monzo to hold 
her liable for the payments. 
Whether a payment transaction has been authorised or not is important because account 
holders will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking, banks 
will be liable for unauthorised payments. If Miss A made the disputed transactions herself or 
authorised them to be made on her behalf, it would not be fair to ask Monzo to refund them. 
However, Miss A says she was not involved in the payments in dispute. 
Having looked at the complaint fully, my review of the evidence has led me to the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. I 
will explain why. 
There are occasions when people can be persuaded to make a payment, not realising that 
its part of a scam. But that isnt what Miss A has told us happened. Therefore, the starting 
position is that Miss A is not a victim of a scam.
Miss A transferred money into the account two minutes before the first disputed transaction, 
funding it, this suggests intimate knowledge of her account. 
Monzo has said that there is only one active device registered to the account. Ive seen the 
electronic records which shows that Miss As trusted device was used to authorise the 
disputed transactions using 3DS verification. 3DS verification is used as an extra security 
step in an attempt to prevent fraudulent transactions. A customer is directed to the app to 
authenticate a payment. This is done either using biometric security or the consumers PIN. 
In this case, it was done with a PIN.
Whoever authorised the payments would have had to have been able to obtain the device, 
access her banking app and know her PIN. I dont think its likely a third party would have 
been able to access her phone, make the transactions and return the phone without Miss A 
being aware of it, especially as the two transactions were over an hour apart. According to 
the in-app dispute form completed by Miss A, no-one else had access to the device or knew 
the PIN at the time of the disputed transactions. I therefore dont see how the transaction 
could have been made by someone else.
Overall 
Having considered everything, all of the available evidence points to it being more likely than 
not that Miss A made the transactions herself. I realise that this is not the outcome Miss A 
was hoping for, but that is what the available evidence leads me to believe here. This means 
that Miss A can be held responsible for them. As such, I cannot fairly and reasonably require 
Monzo to take any further action in relation to this matter.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Sarah Green
Ombudsman