DRN-3130363
The complaint
Mrs J complains about how Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited (Markerstudy) dealt 
with a claim on her motor insurance.
What happened
Mrs J had motor insurance with Markerstudy. She says that that her car caught fire and she 
made a claim on her insurance. Markerstudy refused her claim.
Mrs J complained to Markerstudy. Markerstudy said the claim was refused because the 
engineer it appointed to examine the car said there had been an electrical fault not a fire, 
which was excluded under her policy.
Mrs J wasnt happy with Markerstudys response, so she complained to this service. Our 
investigator initially said that Markerstudy should reconsider the claim, as there was 
insufficient evidence to say that there hadnt been a fire. Markerstudy said it would arrange 
for an engineer to examine the car again if Mrs J arranged to remove the dashboard to allow 
the engineer fuller access to the car. Markerstudy said it would pay for this if there turned out 
to have been a fire after all, but Mrs J said she couldnt pay. 
So our investigator said that Markerstudy didnt need to do anything more as the onus had 
been on Mrs J to take the car to a garage to run diagnostics.
Mrs J wasnt happy with this response, so her complaint has been passed to me. Mrs J 
wants Markerstudy to pay out on her claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs Js insurance policy with Markerstudy said 
What is not covered

Wear and tear, mechanical or electrical breakdown including failure of any 
equipment, integrated circuit, computer chip, computer software or computer related 
equipment.
Markerstudy relied on this exclusion clause to refuse Mrs Js claim. So its for Markerstudy to 
show the exclusion applies in the particular circumstances of this claim.
Mrs J says her car caught fire, she says the person who had been driving it said there had 
been smoke coming out from under the dashboard and an amber glow. 
The engineer appointed by Markerstudy said 
I was unable to gain access to the engine bay due to the bonnet release bring brokenI 
found no evidence of flame with the limited access I had to the rear of the dashboard. I am of 
the opinion that this is due to an electrical failure. As there is no evidence of flame, I am of 
the opinion at this time that you have no liability in this matter. However if the dashboard 
were removed and evidence of fire found I would revise my position. I would also anticipate 
further damage being found and repair costs to increase.
Markerstudy offered to get the engineer to look again at the car if Mrs J arranged to have the 
dashboard removed. Markerstudy said if it turned out there had been a fire, it would 
reimburse the cost. This is the approach this service would usually consider to be fair and 
reasonable. If Mrs J thought the engineers report was wrong, it was open to her to take up 
this offer, or arrange for another report herself. 
So I think Markerstudy has taken reasonable steps to assess the damage and I think that its 
decision to rely on the engineers report that the damage is excluded is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman