DRN-4078252
The complaint
Mr F complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ), has rejected the claim he made under section 75 
and section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel 
system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier. 
Mr F is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In June 2018, Mr F purchased a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his 
home. Mr F financed the purchase through a fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano that was 
repayable over ten years.
In April 2022, the CMC made a claim on Mr Fs behalf under section 75 and section 140 of 
the Act to Ikano. The CMC said that the supplier had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mr F to enter into the contract.
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The Feed-In Tariff (FIT) payments would cover the monthly loan repayments, so 
Mr F wouldnt be out of pocket on a monthly basis.
The value of Mr Fs home would increase.
The CMC also alleged the relationship between Ikano and Mr F was unfair on him because:
Ikano (and/or the supplier acting as Ikanos agent) didnt do what it shouldve done 
when arranging the loan  in terms of providing documents and information and 
checking the loan was affordable.
Ikano received commission from the supplier which Mr F was not told about.
Ikano said there was no misrepresentations and it had done what it was supposed to. And it 
neither received nor paid any commission in relation to Mr Fs loan.
The CMC then referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service about Ikanos 
response. 
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Neither Ikano nor Mr F has responded within the given deadline. So, this final decision is in 
line with my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75, and section 140 of the Act.
Section 56 says that any negotiations between Mr F and the supplier are deemed to have 
been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Ikano. 
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. This 
means that Mr F could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach 
of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have claimed against the supplier.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss. 
Section 140 allows the courts to consider if the relationship between a creditor and debtor 
was unfair on the debtor.
Ikano had a duty to treat Mr F fairly when responding to his claim.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Ikano. These 
include the credit agreement, contract, and estimated year one returns sheet.
The contract sets out key information about the system, including its basic price of £5,500.00 
and that it is expected to generate 2,690.49 kWh of electricity per year.
The estimated first year returns sheet shows the same expected annual generation figure 
and the potential first year financial benefit as follows:
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments (£60.50 
per month). 
I think these three documents provide important evidence, alongside Mr Fs testimony, of 
what was likely discussed during the sales meeting. They were all created and signed during 
that meeting.
Misrepresentation
The CMC says Mr F was told the FIT payments would cover the monthly loan repayments. 
But, based on all the evidence, I think that is unlikely.
The monthly loan repayments were £60.50. This is clearly shown on the credit agreement, 
and I think Mr F wouldve been aware of that figure, given that is what he was agreeing to 
pay each month for the next ten years.
The estimated first year returns sheet clearly shows the FIT payments were expected to be:
Generation tariff £107.88
Export tariff £70.49
The combined total for FIT payments of £178.37 is not shown. But I still think it wouldve 
been clear that the FIT payments in the first year would not cover the monthly loan 
repayments. Especially as the total estimated year one benefit was shown as £358.63, 
which included the electricity savings. This was significantly less that the annual loan 
repayment of £726.00. 
I think it is unlikely that the supplier wouldve provided these documents at the same time as 
saying the FIT payments would cover the monthly loan repayments.
The CMC says Mr F was told the value of his property would increase due to having the 
system installed. I dont think that was a misrepresentation. When Mr F comes to sell his 
property, he can decide the asking price and can take into account the value of the system 
and the ongoing benefits it may provide the new owner.
Unfair relationship
The CMC alleges that Mr Fs relationship with Ikano is unfair on him. It says he was not 
provided with pre-contract information or his cancellation rights, didnt check the loan was 
affordable and that Ikano received some commission from the supplier that it didnt declare 
to Mr F.
Im not persuaded by the CMCs arguments on this point. Im satisfied that Mr F understood 
the credit agreement (he signed a validation sheet confirming this), and his withdrawal rights 
are shown on the credit agreement that he signed. Ikano undertook proportional checks to 
ensure the loan was affordable. Ikano has confirmed that it neither received nor paid any 
commission in relation to Mr Fs loan.
So, I have no reason to think a court would find that Mr Fs relationship with Ikano was unfair 
on him.
Summary
Im satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that 
induced Mr F to enter into the contract for the system. Nor do I think that a court would 
find that Mr Fs relationship with Ikano was unfair on him. 
So, I dont think Ikano treated Mr F unfairly by not upholding his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman