DRN-3667232
The complaint
Miss O complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) have mishandled her legal 
expenses insurance claim which led to her receiving a reduced settlement.
IPA use intermediaries to administer their legal expenses policy and manage claims on their 
behalf, so any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including the 
acts or omissions of any such intermediaries. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the reasons set 
out below:
After Miss O was told by IPAs panel solicitors (Firm C) that they were conflicted, 
she subsequently appointed her own solicitor (Firm S) which was funded by a 
conditional fee arrangement of 25% of the damages being payable to the solicitors. 
Miss O says that she was referred back to Firm C several times by IPA, despite 
telling them the firm was conflicted. And while I havent been provided with a copy of 
the relevant call recordings, Im persuaded by her testimony on this point. 
After having mistakenly referred Miss O back to Firm C, I also accept its possible 
that IPA discussed the potential for her being able to choose her own solicitors. But 
even if they did, it is still a condition of all legal expenses policies that any legal 
adviser chosen by the insured will represent them in line with the insurers standard 
terms of appointment, which were never seemingly presented or agreed with IPA 
before Miss O instructed them. So, seeing as Miss O did not seek agreement with 
IPA for Firm S to be appointed, I dont consider the insurer can fairly be held liable for 
the reduction in Miss Os settlement in order to pay her solicitors conditional fee. 
Miss O says she was told that Firm C were the only solicitors her policy covered. But 
I can see that IPA subsequently instructed an alternative panel solicitor (Firm T) on 
16 August 2018, where they emailed Miss O confirming this, as well as sending her a 
letter explaining It is a condition of the insurance that [Firm T] are instructed to act 
for youthe insurance does not cover the legal fees of any other solicitor unless a 
conflict of interest arises.
So Im satisfied Miss O ought reasonably to have been aware that alternative 
solicitors (who were not conflicted) had been instructed to act, and that she had the 
option of proceeding with solicitors that would not charge on a conditional fee 
arrangement basis and would be funded by the policy. However, Miss O decided to 
continue instructing Firm S with her own private funding arrangement. Firm T 
eventually closed their file as she had not made contact with them, and neither were 
they able to get hold of her. So, given that Miss O did not follow up with IPA to seek 
agreement for her chosen solicitors, the costs she has incurred with Firm S are not 
covered under the policy. And I do not consider IPA have acted unfairly by refusing to 
cover such costs as they offered her another panel solicitor when Firm C initially said 
they were conflicted. 
However, I accept that the service Miss O received from IPA did at times fall below 
an acceptable standard. I accept its likely that Miss O was referred back to IPAs 
panel solicitor (Firm C) despite them saying they could not be appointed due to a 
conflict of interest, and despite Miss O having clearly explained this to the insurer. 
And I can also see that she sometimes did not have her calls returned and has had 
to chase the insurer for updates. The investigator recommended an award of £150, 
which I understand Miss O may not feel is commensurate to the experience she has 
had. But while I appreciate this would have been stressful and frustrating at times, 
Im not persuaded it has caused more than moderate upset or inconvenience. So, I 
consider £150 to be fair compensation in the circumstances. 
I appreciate this may come as a disappointment to Miss O, and Im sorry to hear about the 
accident she was involved in and the impact this has had on her life. But while Im 
sympathetic to her situation, I dont think that acts or omissions of IPA warrant any higher 
compensation than £150. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint in part and direct Inter Partner 
Assistance SA to pay £150 to Miss O within 28 days of receiving notification of her 
acceptance of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman