DRN-1649489
 Complaint
This complaint is about a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in May 2005. Mr B, who is represented by a third party, complains that Wilson & Co 
(Motor Sales) Limited (Wilson & Co) mis-sold him the policy.
Background
The PPI was added when Mr B applied for a loan to buy a car. The term of both the loan and 
PPI was 60 months. Mr B says he was led to believe he had to take the PPI in order to get 
the loan approved.
Mr B says he wasnt aware he had a choice about taking the policy, that the cost of the 
policy and its terms werent explained to him and he didnt need it. 
Our adjudicator in this case thought it should be upheld. Wilson & Co didnt agree and so the 
case has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Its not disputed that at a meeting Wilson & Co advised Mr B to take out the PPI policy. So it 
also needed to make sure it was suitable for his circumstances. In addition, Wilson & Co was 
required to give Mr C information that was clear, fair and not misleading, so Mr B could make 
an informed choice about whether or not to buy the PPI. 
Having looked at available documents from the time, I am upholding this complaint. I will 
explain why.
Ive looked at the loan agreement that Mr B signed. This includes details about the finance 
and the PPI. Mr Bs monthly repayments would be £249.20  so thats the amount the policy 
would pay out if he made a successful claim. If he was unable to work due to sickness or 
disability the monthly repayments would be met for up to 24 months but if he became 
unemployed the policy terms state that repayments would be met only for up to 12 months. 
So if Mr B made a successful claim  for unemployment, the maximum amount of benefit that 
he could expect to receive was £2990,40  that is £249.20 x 12.  Given that Mr B was paying 
a total of £2,990.40 for the policy once interest had been added, the unemployment cover 
offered him no financial gain on what hed be paying. So, I think its fair to say that the policy 
cover represented very poor value for Mr B. 
The question I must ask is whether this was made clear to Mr B at the time of the sale? I 
dont think it was. Whilst I can see the finance agreement had a breakdown of the cost of the 
PPI it didnt make it clear enough that a chief benefit of the policy and therefore a key reason for taking it out was not worthwhile financially to Mr B. And Ive noticed that Wilson & Co 
hasnt provided us with any other information or evidence that might reassure me that Mr B 
was made aware of this shortcoming at the time he signed the agreement. 
If Wilson & Co had properly told Mr B about the full cost of the policy alongside the impact of 
the key policy terms and how long he could expect to benefit from it, I think hed have 
thought this meant the policy wasnt good value for him and I dont think hed have taken it. 
I consider this to be a significant failing and so enough to make a finding that the policy was 
mis-sold.
It follows that I think Mr B has lost out because of what Wilson & Co did wrong and I 
therefore uphold this complaint.
What Wilson & Co should do to put things right
Mr B borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it should have been. He 
paid more than he should have each month and it cost him more to repay the loan than it 
would have. So Mr B needs to get back the extra hes paid.
So Wilson & Co (Motor Sales) Limited should:
Work out and pay Mr B the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he would have paid without PPI.
Work out and pay Mr B the difference between what it cost to pay off the loan and 
what it would have cost to pay off the loan without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr B paid from when he paid it until he gets it 
back. The rate of interest is and 8% a year.
If Mr B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Wilson & Co Bank plc can take 
off what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Wilson & Co (Motor Sales) Limited to take off tax from 
this interest. Wilson & Co (Motor Sales) Limited must give Mr B a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint. Wilson & Co (Motor Sales) Limited must pay Mr B the 
compensation Ive described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman