DRN-2749951
The complaint
D have complained about the decision of American International Group UK Limited (AIG) to 
decline their business interruption claim for losses sustained as a result of the COVID-19 
pandemic.
What happened
D held a commercial insurance policy underwritten in part by AIG. Some of the actions taken 
involved the administrator of the policy, but as AIG is responsible for the decision being 
complained about, I have merely referred to AIG for the sake of simplicity.
In March 2020, D had to close their premises following the Governments response to the 
COVID-19 pandemic. They contacted AIG to claim for their losses. AIG said that the claim 
was not covered by the policy however. 
D complained about this decision, but AIG didnt change its stance. It explained that the core 
business interruption cover, as well as several extension to this cover, requires there to have 
been Damage that has caused the interruption, and COVID-19 had not caused such 
Damage. AIG also explained that another of the extensions, Infectious Diseases, provided 
cover in relation to those diseases specifically listed in the policy. And that, as this list did not 
include COVID-19, Ds claim was not covered by this extension. AIG also said that I had not 
shown that a defect in the drains or other sanitary arrangements at Ds premises had led to 
the business interruption. 
D remained unhappy and brought their complaint to this service. However, our investigator 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that the definition of Damage in 
the policy meant that the circumstances of Ds claim were covered by the terms reliant on 
Damage having occurred. And he considered the specified list of diseases relevant to the 
Infectious Diseases extension was exhaustive and didnt include COVID-19, so Ds claim 
wasnt covered by this extension either. The investigator also thought that COVID-19 and 
SARS were two different diseases, and the fact that SARS related claims were covered by 
the policy didnt mean that COVID-19 related claims should be. He also agreed with AIGs 
conclusions on the sanitary arrangements argument.
As D werent satisfied with this outcome, their complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on D, I wont be upholding their complaint. My reasons are 
substantially the same as the investigators.
I feel it is worthwhile to point out that D is represented in this complaint. Ds representative 
has submitted detailed arguments as to why it feels Ds claim should be met and the 
complaint upheld. The role of this service is to consider each complaint based on its own 
individual circumstances. However, we have developed certain approaches that are then 
applied to those individual circumstances. And where circumstances are similar, it is 
inevitable that similar conclusions will be reached. The arguments submitted and pursued by 
Ds representative are largely the same arguments that it has submitted on other complaints 
from other policyholders. Ds representative has had this services approach to these 
arguments explained and, unless the circumstances of this particular complaint are 
dissimilar from those previous cases, the same approach will be applied to this case.
However, for the benefit of D, I will set out in this decision why their representatives 
arguments have not persuaded me to uphold their complaint. 
I understand that D closed their business in March 2020 due to the government-imposed 
lockdown. The nature of their business was such that they wouldnt have been allowed to 
stay open after this time. So, the type of cover theyre looking to claim under is business 
interruption insurance.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy D took out.
Damage
The standard cover provided by the business interruption section of Ds policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by Damage. Damage is defined in Ds policy as meaning; 
physical loss or destruction of or damage to Property. And property is defined as meaning; 
material property. 
D's representative has made a number of arguments around the definition of Damage. It has 
suggested that the cover being provided here is effectively for all risks and that the definition 
works by setting out what is excluded. I dont consider this is correct. The cover provided is 
not all risks. Indeed, the core business interruption cover requires the Damage to have 
been caused by one of certain Specified Perils listed in the policy. Further the definition 
provides, in my view, a clear meaning to the term Damage without referring to any exclusion.
Ds representative has also referred to particular case law in order to argue that physical 
damage could include loss of use of property even where there is no physical damage. 
However, as well as an appeal on this case having reached a different outcome, the 
particular judgment relied on here is from the Canadian court system. 
Judgments in other jurisdictions can influence how an English court might come to a 
decision on a particular issue, and this service will take into account what an English court 
might decide. However, given Ds policy states that it is English Law and the decisions of 
English courts that are applicable to the contract, where such an issue has actually been 
determined by an English court, I consider that the findings of that court would be more 
persuasive. 
Taking into account the judgments reached in a number of legal cases held in English 
courts, I agree with the investigator that damage, as it is required under the policy, would 
require either a physical change to property or specialist cleaning to remove the cause of 
damage. I dont consider it can be said that physical changes were caused by SARS-COV-2 to either 
Ds property, the property of their suppliers or customers, or property within the vicinity of Ds 
premises. And I also dont consider that any specialist cleaning of such property was 
required. So, I dont think there was relevant damage, and I think AIG acted fairly and 
reasonably when declining Ds claim under the parts of the policy that required such 
damage.
I also dont think, for similar reasons, that there has been destruction of Property. And I dont 
think the temporary loss of use of Ds premises (or the premises of their suppliers or 
customers) would constitute physical loss. I consider this would need to be more than a 
temporary loss, where recovery was uncertain. 
Whilst I appreciate the pandemic has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think 
COVID-19, or the related government measures, caused Damage which has led to an 
interruption of Ds business.
So, I dont think either the standard business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely 
on there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Ds claim. And I think 
AIG acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Ds claim under these areas of cover.
Infectious Diseases
A further extension to the business interruption section of Ds policy relates to the cover 
provided in the event of disease causing any government or local authority to take action. 
The government-imposed lockdown was intended to control the COVID-19 pandemic and 
required certain businesses, including Ds, to close. COVID-19 is an infectious disease.
Because of this, the most likely section of the policy that would respond is the extension to 
the business interruption section of the policy in relation to Infectious Diseases. 
This extension provides cover in relation to business interruption losses caused by:
closure of the Premises or part thereof on the order advice or stipulation of any 
government or local authority as a result of
1) any human infectious or human contagious Disease (excluding Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome [AIDS] or an AIDS-related condition) manifested by any person 
whilst at the Premises or within a 25 mile radius of the Premises

The term Disease in this clause is capitalised, indicating it has a specific meaning within 
this section of the policy. The section definitions say Disease means:
any of the following diseases sustained by any person acute encephalitis acute 
infectious hepatitis acute meningitis acute poliomyelitis anthrax botulism brucellosis 
cholera diphtheria enteric fever (typhoid or paratyphoid) food poisoning haemolytic 
uraemic syndrome (HUS) infectious bloody diarrhoea invasive group A streptococcal 
disease legionellosis leprosy malaria measles meningococcal septicaemia mumps 
plague rabies rubella SARS scarlet fever smallpox tetanus tuberculosis typhus viral 
haemorrhagic fever (VHF) whooping cough and yellow fever
So, this means where the term Disease is used in upper case within the section it refers to 
one (or a number) of the diseases in the specified list. The Infectious Diseases extension uses the term Disease in upper case, so I consider this clause provides cover in relation to 
the manifestation of one (or a number) of these diseases.
I do note that the use of the term Disease in the extension is accompanied by further 
wording  both human infectious or human contagious and the references to AIDS and 
AIDS-related conditions. Given the types of disease in the list are all likely to be either 
infectious or contagious and they would need to be sustained by a person, and that AIDS is 
not included in the specified list, this wording might be unnecessary. But I dont think this 
makes the meaning of the clause unclear. Or that this means the section definition of 
Disease no longer applies.
D's representative has also said that SARS and COVID-19 are the same disease, or that 
theyre so closely linked that the inclusion of SARS in this list of specified illnesses means 
COVID-19 related claims should also be covered. However, as the investigator has set out, 
both the UK Government and the World Health Organisation consider SARS and COVID-19 
to be separate, distinct diseases. They may well be linked in the sense that both the 
diseases and their viral causes have similarities. But given SARS is its own disease, I dont 
think the definition can be reasonably read as to interpret this as an umbrella term covering 
other coronavirus related diseases including COVID-19.
I consider that the extension provides cover relating to a specified list of diseases. And 
COVID-19 is not one of the diseases listed in the definition. When reaching this finding Im 
mindful that COVID-19 is a new disease that no-one had the foresight to cover, and that it 
might not have been possible for AIG to include it in the policy at the time it was written. But I 
dont think that changes anything. Thats because I dont think AIG intended to, or suggested 
they would, provide cover for all diseases. AIG deliberately chose to define Disease by 
reference to a static list of certain diseases.
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy, which there could have been if that was what 
AIG wanted to cover, that implies it provides cover for other diseases, including any new 
diseases which might emerge generally, or new diseases added to the Governments 
notifiable diseases list from time to time.
There are many potential illnesses and diseases that the policy does not cover. I dont think 
the policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all diseases that fall outside of 
the defined list set out above. I think the purpose and effect of the policy is to provide cover 
in the event of the specified diseases listed in the definition of Disease.
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly 
and reasonably be read in a different way.
Ds claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As 
cover was not provided under this area of the policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by Covid-19, I am satisfied AIGs decision to decline the claim under this 
term was in line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable. Sanitary arrangements
Ds representative has also said that Ds claim should be met under a further subclause to 
the Infectious Diseases extension. This provides cover where the action taken to close the 
premises is due to:
defects in the drains or other sanitary arrangements at the Premises or the Premises 
becoming infested with vermin or pests.
D representative has said D was forced to close by the Government as a preventative public 
health measure due to the inability to meet social distancing guidelines. And it considers this 
means the reason for the closure was sanitation issues. 
However, I consider a key question here is whether or not an inability to enforce social 
distancing could be said to qualify as a defect in the sanitary arrangements at Ds premises.
To reach a fair and reasonable outcome Ive considered, amongst other things, relevant 
case law, in particular the case of Brushfield Ltd (T/A The Clarence Hotel) v Arachas 
Corporate Brokers Ltd & Anor [2021] IEHC 263. This case took place in the Irish courts, but 
in the absence of a comparable English case, I feel it is useful to consider the points made in 
this case in terms of considering how an English court might decide this point of contractual 
interpretation. The judge in this case considered policy wording similar to that in Ds policy 
and considered, in part, the meaning of the term other sanitary arrangements, when used 
in context similar to Ds complaint.
The judge in this case said at paragraph 164:
 it is essential to consider the meaning of a contractual provision as of the date 
when the contract was concluded. The question, accordingly, is whether a 
reasonable person, in the position of the parties at the time the contract was 
concluded, would understand that the reference to a defect in the other sanitary 
arrangements at the premises was intended to capture an inability to ensure that 
appropriate social distancing was maintained.
This reflects the position of English Law that the meaning of a contract should be interpreted 
objectively, by considering what would be understood by a reasonable person, with the 
relevant background knowledge, at the time the contract was entered.
Ds policy was entered in March 2019, a number of months before COVID-19 existed. And, 
whilst social distancing has been practiced throughout history as a means of preventing the 
spread of disease, until recently, this was not the case in the UK. So, I am not persuaded 
that a reasonable person reading the particular wording of Ds policy in March 2019 would 
have considered this subclause to refer to an inability to enforce social distancing at Ds 
premises. 
Additionally, it isnt clear what Ds representatives consider the defect at Ds premises 
actually is. As the judge in Brushfield said at paragraph 166, A defect inherently involves 
some element of deficiency or fault. D is a retail business and no evidence has been 
provided to suggest there was any deficiency or fault in its sanitary arrangements. Im not 
persuaded that the normal operation of a business can be called a defect, and certainly not a 
defect specific to Ds premises which led to its closure.Ds representatives have said that the public order to close was to specifically limit the 
spread of disease and virus at Ds premises and these circumstances are covered by the 
term other sanitary arrangements. However, I havent been provided with any evidence to 
suggest it was the circumstances at Ds premises in particular that led to the Governments 
decision to introduce the restrictions it did in March 2020. For these reasons, I consider 
AIGs decision to not to meet Ds claim under this subclause was fair and reasonable.
Ive carefully looked at the rest of the terms in Ds policy. But I dont consider Ds claim ought 
to have been met under any of them.
I note Ds representatives comments that this service does not necessarily have to follow 
the legal position. It is true that, whilst I need to take into account the law, my role is to 
determine what is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. And that this can mean a 
different outcome might be reached to that which would be in a court. However, in coming to 
my decision, I need to be fair to both D and AIG. And having considered all of the 
circumstances of this case, I dont consider it would be fair and reasonable to ask AIG to pay 
Ds claim. 
Ultimately, having considered all the circumstances of this case, whilst I am sorry for the 
position D finds itself in, I am persuaded AIGs decision not to meet Ds claim was fair and 
reasonable.
I know this decision will be disappointing for D and their directors, but I hope Ive provided 
them with a thorough explanation of why this policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances 
of Ds claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman