DRN-3575873
The complaint
Mr M complains that following a rights issue, and after Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management (HL) led him to understand it would sell his rights, the sale deadline expired 
without his rights being sold. 
What happened
In November 2021, Mr M held an execution-only trading account with HL. He had a 
shareholding in an overseas company which had a rights issue. He was able to sell his 
shares in the company but was unable to see his rights in his HL account. He was aware he 
had 14 days to trade his rights and initially thought there might be a technical issue with HLs 
site. But he became anxious after a few days when his rights still hadnt appeared on his 
account and he contacted HL. 
Mr M found it frustrating trying to get information about what was happening and was 
relieved to finally speak to an HL representative on the phone who told him:  in terms of if 
there is a rights issue it is an overseas stock. Our Corporate Actions team have said last 
week it would be unlikely you would be able to take part so we will sell your rights so they 
dont lapse without value, so you will receive some cash.
HL followed up this call with a secure message confirming as follows:
As noted in our call, as this is an overseas stock it is unlikely that you will be able to take 
part in the rights issue. Therefore, we will attempt to sell your rights so they dont lapse 
without value but this is still not guaranteed. At this moment, I am unfortunately unable to 
provide a date when we may be able to trade on these rights as we are still chasing (the 
third party selling agent) and the situation is currently out of our hands
In the event, despite learning that the rights issue was subscribed at 99.9%, Mr M was told 
the local broker hadnt been able to sell and he received no value for his rights. 
When he complained to HL, it said it couldnt comment on the third party sellers processing 
times and what happened was a regrettable risk of investing in overseas securities and 
one that we clearly set out in our terms.
HL said it wasnt responsible for any financial losses as the matter had been outside its 
control. HL did say however that its communication with Mr M hadnt been in line with the 
high level of customer service it aimed to provide its clients and paid £75 into Mr Ms account 
by way of an apology.
Mr M didnt feel this went far enough to resolve things so he brought his complaint to our 
service. He said HL misled him about receiving cash into his account, HL hadnt acted in his 
best interests and he was very concerned about what happened to his rights and the cash 
the sale should have generated. Mr M said he lost out on around £21,000 and he was 
looking for financial compensation.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint. He thought that HLs explanation for what 
happened had been reasonable and, as a UK based broker unable to deal with foreign 
stock, it was bound to have to rely on a third party to dispose of overseas shares and rights 
 which was covered in HLs terms and conditions. Although it turned out that the third party 
hadnt set things up in time to process the trade, our investigator said that wasnt HLs fault. 
He didnt think HL had misled Mr M as the secure message it sent explained the situation 
accurately. He referred Mr M to the relevant part of HLs terms and conditions which set out 
the way HL would manage overseas dealings. He thought the £75 HL had paid Mr M in 
respect of the poor communication issues had been enough to put things right.
Mr M wasnt happy with our investigators view so he asked for an ombudsmans decision 
and his complaint has come to me. 
In his reply to our investigators view, Mr M mainly said HL should:
not let clients trade in a market where it cant offer an acceptable service
at least have warned customers about the risk of not being able to participate and 
that it would be wiser to sell their shares ahead of time
not hide behind terms and conditions but treat clients fairly.
Mr M didnt agree that £75 was enough compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Mr M. I can understand that whats happened has been upsetting and 
frustrating for him. I want to assure him that Ive carefully considered everything he has 
submitted. Whilst I have summarised the main issues in my own words, and I wont 
necessarily address every point raised, thats because Ive concentrated on what seem to 
me to be the core issues I need to address when deciding the complaint. This reflects the 
fact that we provide an informal complaints handling service as a free alternative to the 
courts. 
Having looked at his complaint afresh, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator 
for broadly the same reasons and Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about HL. Despite 
what Mr M says, on balance Im unable to safely say that HL is responsible for the losses 
claimed. I dont find it did anything wrong when it instructed the third party to process the 
rights trade and HL wasnt responsible for third party actions. Although I think it's fair to say 
HL could have better managed contact and communications with Mr M, Im satisfied it has 
already done enough to put things right for Mr M. Ill explain my reasons.  
HLs terms and conditions, which Mr M wouldve had to sign up to when he opened his HL 
account, explain why and how HL uses a third party financial business to carry out trades in 
the overseas shares it deals in. I dont find that HL did anything wrong when it instructed the 
third party to handle Mr Ms rights dealings in the overseas company. This was in line with its 
terms and conditions and HL wasnt able to complete the trade otherwise. HL had explained 
this to Mr M in a secure message it sent him following a chat on the phone when it told him 
the matter was in the hands of the third party.
I think HLs message went some way towards managing Mr Ms expectations. I cant fairly 
say that HLs message to Mr M was misleading as it clearly stated that HL would attempt to 
sell his rights but it wasnt able to guarantee they wouldnt lapse without value. HL wasnt responsible for what happened when the third party got involved. Mr M has 
suggested he should extend his complaint to include the third party but, just to be clear, Im 
only able to deal here with his complaint about HL. It appears HL was attempting to obtain 
information from the third party and HL told Mr M it would keep him updated. HL also made 
other enquiries to try and find out what was happening. I wouldnt reasonably expect HL to 
have done any more in this situation. 
HL wasnt responsible for providing tailored financial advice to Mr M so the fact it didnt make 
recommendations to him isnt a reason for me to uphold his complaint. 
HL acknowledged that the customer service it provided to Mr M was below standard and 
I can see that some of its communication could have been quicker and clearer. But it put 
things right with the secure message it sent Mr M and the £75 payment it made by way of an 
apology for the shortcomings it was responsible for in the service provided. This amount 
seems fair to me and in line with the level of award I would expect to make had HL not 
already made the payment voluntarily.
 
Taking all of this together, Im satisfied the £75 HL has already paid Mr M is a fair amount to 
compensate him for the frustration and inconvenience it caused. So Im not telling HL to do 
anything more.
In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account Mr Ms concern that HL should not be 
offering a service it doesnt have control over but I dont feel I can usefully add much to what 
our investigator has already said about this. How businesses choose to operate and the 
services they offer are matters that come under the oversight of the regulator - the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I hope that setting things out as I've done is helpful in 
explaining how I've reached my conclusions.
My final decision
For these reasons, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman