DRN-3828432
Complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim 
they made under section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a 
solar panel system they say were misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs S are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In Mya 2015, Mr and Mrs S were contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs S decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In February 2022, the CMC made a claim on Mr and Mrs Ss behalf under section 140 of the 
Act to Shawbrook. The CMC said that P had made a number of representations about the 
system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr and Mrs S to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
The system would be self-funded by virtue of the feed in tariff (FIT) payments.
The system would be self-funding.
The feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on energy bills would provide enough income to 
cover the finance agreement repayments costs.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs S or that there 
were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs S and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons: 
Mr and Mrs S re-iterated that they were verbally told the system would be self-
funding and they trusted Ps sales representative. They say they were told the 
system would pay for itself in 7 years and they didnt think the benefits listed were 
estimates but were instead guaranteed. 
They challenged whether Ps sales processes were actually followed during the sales 
meeting  they say that the sales document relied on by our investigator was 
confusing. Mr and Mrs B also point out that our investigator says the repayment table 
suggests the system will start paying for itself in year two, but also that it would have 
paid for itself by year 12. 
They add that the sales representative did not go through the sales quotation 
document in detail. They were only shown certain aspects of it and they werent 
subsequently sent the paperwork. 
Mr and Mrs S say that P didnt use their actual electricity unit rate to work out its 
estimates, so it used an incorrect rate. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 140 and s.56of the Act. Section 140A is about 
unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In this case, the CMC relies 
on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs S and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - 
what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs S say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with the consumers testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the 
consumers version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The quote sets out that the total cost of the system was £9,043. 05 and that Mr and Mrs 
were paying a deposit of £600. The credit agreement sets out that the total amount of credit 
is £8,443.05 and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be £16,770.60.
The quote also set out that the expected monthly loan repayment was £91.65. But I note Mr 
and Mrs S deferred their payments for a few months which is reflected in their credit 
agreement and their monthly payment is also marginally different at £93.17  but I dont think 
these differences make the quote mis-leading. 
Having considered all the evidence, including the consumers recollections, Im satisfied that 
they were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this 
clear, as set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote 
and the credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £9,043, it 
would cost Mr and Mrs S more than this as they had decided to pay for it with an interest 
bearing loan. 
Mr and Mrs S have said that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments. They subsequently said that they were told 
their monthly loan repayments would be covered by the savings on energy bills and the FIT 
payments combined. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P as well as the 
consumers recollections of their meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most 
likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs S could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs S could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £565.55, which results in an average monthly income of £46.12.
As outlined above, Im satisfied that the quote set out that there would be an expected 
monthly loan repayment due of £91.65. As a result, Im not able to conclude that the 
consumer was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payment 
alone.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs S could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £278.39 and, when taking into account 
the optional extras chosen by Mr and Mrs S the combined income and savings in year one 
is shown as £1094,61. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together. 
As explained above, I think it was clear that Mr and Mrs Ss monthly loan repayment would 
be around £91.65 which is annually £1,099.80. Although the difference isnt significant, it 
does still show that their combined benefit (savings and FIT), wouldnt be sufficient to cover 
their annual payments. And I note, due to the payment deferral they took, their monthly 
payment was slightly higher in the credit agreement they signed on the same day. Based on 
that, their annual loan payments were £1,118.04. So, I dont think its likely they were told 
their monthly loan payments would be covered by the FIT payments alone or by the total 
financial benefits provided by the system. 
Theres a section headed Repayments with three table showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 since months this is 
the length of the loan that Mr and Mrs S entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the 
loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £91.65. For each year of the 15-year loan it 
shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 
months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £91.65, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs S could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. The table does clearly set out that the overall income they could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately 
sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. This supports my finding above that the 
consumers werent told that the FIT payments and savings would cover the loan repayment. 
Ive carefully thought about the consumers version of events. However, as Ive found that 
the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at 
the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that they were told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income and savings.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs S that the system would be self-funding from the 
outset. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to 
have happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr and Mrs S were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by year 12 the overall benefits that Mr and 
Mrs S could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement. 
I appreciate the CMC has pointed out that the quote says the payback year is year 7 and Mr 
and Mrs S also say they were told that the system would pay for itself in around 7 years. 
However, that section also specifies that these figures dont include the finance charges. I 
think its therefore clear that this reference to payback year is in relation to the cash price of 
the system only. As Ive explained above, I think Mr and Mrs S were aware that they were 
paying for the system using finance and that it would cost more than the cash price of the 
system. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs S that the system would pay for 
itself by year 12 (including the finance charges), and this is supported by the table above 
included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was 
what induced them to enter into the contract, and they subsequently suffered a loss, that 
would amount to a misrepresentation.
I would clarify that although the repayment table in the quote estimates that the system 
would start to cover its annual costs in year 2, the full cost of the system would not be 
recouped until around year 12 as set out by the table above. 
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr and Mrs S. The quote sets out that the system is expected to 
produce 3576 kWh a year.
Weve requested copies of Mr and Mrs Ss FIT statements, but they have not sent them in. 
Additionally, they also havent suggested or complained the system isnt producing energy in 
line with the quote. So, Ive got no reason to think that the system isnt performing as 
expected. If, however, Mr and Mrs S would like Shawbrook to look into this, they can raise 
this separately. 
I understand the Mr and Mrs S have said that P used an incorrect electricity unit rate to work 
out their anticipated savings during the sale. However, usually P only used the actual rate a 
customer was being charged if they provided bills  otherwise it used a reasonable figure to 
work out the potential savings the system will generate. If bills were provided, I have no 
reason to doubt P would have used them as it has done so in other cases. So, I havent 
seen sufficient evidence that P made any errors here, and I think the rate used was a 
reasonable one.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
explain why they havent been receiving the financial returns they may have been expecting 
from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling 
predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has been 
correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2005 to 2014. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs S 
couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns 
may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was 
due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs S entered into the 
contract.
I would add that the quote does make it clear that the performance of the system is 
impossible to predict and the benefits are set out as estimates not guaranteed returns. It 
specifically says estimates should not be considered as a guarantee of performance. P does 
go on to say that it guarantees the generation output only for the first-year post installation. 
So, Im not satisfied that Mr and Mrs S were led to believe the estimated benefits over 20 
years were guaranteed. 
So, Ive gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under s.140A the Act. 
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Shawbrook has confirmed 
that it paid no commission to P and, considering that I havent found any misrepresentation 
and Im of the view that the underlying assumptions used by P were reasonable, I think a 
court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship under s.140.Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs S 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman