DRN-4090728
The complaint
Ms M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited cancelled her motor insurance policy because 
of a missed payment but didnt inform her about this in keeping with her contact preferences. 
She wants a letter of indemnity from Aviva. 
What happened
Aviva was unable to take a monthly premium payment from Ms Ms account. Aviva wrote to 
Ms M by post, and it texted her telling her about the missed payment and warning her that 
the policy would cancel if it wasnt rectified. Ms M said she didnt receive this letter or text. 
Aviva then cancelled the policy and wrote to Ms M to tell her this. Ms M was stopped by the 
police for driving whilst uninsured. She now faces court action. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Aviva 
was entitled by the policys terms and conditions to cancel a policy for a missed payment. He 
thought Ms M would have been aware from her mobile banking app that the payment had 
failed twice. And he thought Aviva had made reasonable attempts to make Ms M aware of 
the payment issue and that her policy had been cancelled. 
Ms M replied that she was a paperless customer and Aviva should have contacted her by 
email or though her online account, not by post. She said her bank had incorrectly told her 
that Aviva had taken the payment back. Ms M said her phone number hadnt changed and 
she didnt receive Avivas text because her phone didnt accept texts from unknown 
companies. Ms M asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman, so its come to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Ms M feels frustrated that her policy was cancelled, and that Aviva 
didnt communicate with her using her stated preference. This service believes that insurers 
should take reasonable steps to ensure that policy holders are told that their policy has been 
cancelled as this will have serious consequences for them and expose them to possible 
court action, as unfortunately happened with Ms M. And we also think its good practice for 
an insurer to use at least two contact methods to ensure that consumers receive important 
messages. 
The problem started when Aviva said it was unable to take a monthly premium payment from 
Ms Ms account as this had been rejected by her bank. So Aviva then needed to alert Ms M 
to this. 
Ms M has explained that she thought she had sufficient funds in her account, but she hadnt 
allowed for pending payments that were hidden from her view online. Ms M provided a letter 
from her bank which explains that it gave her incorrect information about the missed 
payment. But I cant reasonably hold Aviva responsible for the banks error. 
Aviva said Ms M had stated her contact preference as online only. But it also said it was 
unable to send all its documents electronically and relied instead on the postal system. It 
said this is explained on the contact preference screen on her online account:
For some online only choices, customers may still get some documents in the post as not 
all documents can go online only yet.
Aviva said it didnt currently send emails about outstanding balances but communicated this 
by post and text. Avivas choice of systems and communication methods it is not something 
that this service would normally interfere with as it is a legitimate exercise of its commercial 
judgement. But we look ensure that an insurer is treating its customers fairly. 
I can see Aviva twice tried unsuccessfully to take the payment. It then wrote to Ms M and 
sent her a text warning her of cancellation if the payment wasnt received. Ms M didnt 
receive the letter, but I can see that it was correctly addressed to the address she gave us. 
Ms M thought it may have been delayed or lost due to the postal strikes at the time. 
Ms M didnt receive the text because of her phone settings, and she said Aviva hadnt told 
her it would send texts and so she hadnt updated her settings. But I cant reasonably hold 
Aviva responsible for Ms Ms choice of phone settings. So Im satisfied that Aviva did enough 
to try and contact Ms M about the payment issue. 
As the payment wasnt received, Aviva cancelled the policy after the notice period and sent 
Ms M a letter and email to confirm this. Ms M said she didnt receive the letter, but I can see 
that it was correctly sent. And I can see that the letter was also emailed to Ms M as were her 
other policy documents, though Ms M said she didnt receive this. Ms M said the policy 
states that the cancellation letter would be sent to the postal and/or email address. And I 
think Aviva complied with this by sending it to both her addresses. 
I can see that in the policy terms and conditions under Cancellation Rights, Aviva states:
We may cancel this policy or optional covers where there is a valid reason, for example 
where:  you have not paid your premium (including non-payment of instalments under an 
Aviva monthly credit facility.
The payment had clearly been missed. I think Aviva sufficiently warned Ms M of the missed 
payment and cancellation. Ms M hadnt responded to Avivas warnings and notice of 
cancellation. So Im satisfied that Aviva was entitled to then cancel the policy for non-
payment. I dont require Aviva to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman