DRN-2279724
The complaint
Mr L complains that Santander UK Plc blocked and then closed his personal bank account, 
and wrongly recorded a Cifas fraud marker against him.
What happened
Mr L had a personal bank account with Santander. He was also the director of two 
companies which both had business accounts with Santander. In 2019, some of his 
companies customers reported to their own banks that the companies were trading 
fraudulently, and those banks reported their customers concerns to Santander. The bank 
blocked and then closed Mr Ls account, and recorded a Cifas marker against him. He 
complained, and the bank removed the Cifas marker, and offered him £250 for his trouble. 
But Santander still declined to re-open his account.
In early 2020, Mr L complained to our Service, on his own behalf and also on behalf of his 
companies. That complaint was therefore treated as three complaints, and this decision is 
only about Mr Ls own personal complaint. The companies complaints are being dealt with 
separately.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She thought that Santander had been entitled 
to do what it did. Mr L asked for an ombudsman to review this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
The Cifas marker
As Ive said, Santander received a number of complaints from Mr Ls customers, each 
alleging that they had been scammed. Santander investigated this, and on the first two 
complaints it gave Mr L the benefit of the doubt. But on receipt of the third such complaint 
shortly afterwards (each complaint being made by a different customer), Santander recorded 
the Cifas marker against Mr L. That was because at the time, Santander thought that Mr L 
had been committing fraud. (More such allegations followed.)
Given the allegations that had been made, and the fact that they were made within a 
relatively short time, I think it is neither surprising nor unreasonable that Santander 
responded the way it did. Banks have a duty to combat fraud, not just to protect their own 
customers from being defrauded but also to prevent their own customers from using their 
accounts to receive the proceeds of crime. Reporting people to Cifas is one of the ways in 
which banks co-operate with each other to achieve this.
12 days later, Santander removed the Cifas marker after Mr L appealed, and Santander 
accepted that the complaints were only civil disputes between those involved, and that Mr L 
had not defrauded anyone. That was a relatively short time, and I think it was a reasonable 
timescale.
Just because Santander changed its mind and removed the marker after it received further 
evidence from Mr L, does not mean that it was wrong to record the marker in the first place. 
It made its decision in good faith on the basis of the information it had at the time, and then 
revised its decision when further information came to light. I can readily appreciate that Mr L 
may feel hard done by, to have been accused  however briefly  of frauds he had not in fact 
committed. But I would only criticise the bank for doing this if its decision was either made in 
bad faith or if it was so obviously irrational that it could not possibly have been justified.
I recognise that this is a high bar for a complainant to have to reach, but that is only because 
I think the Financial Ombudsman Service should be slow to interfere with such decisions, 
especially given that we (and the regulator) expect banks to be robust and prompt in dealing 
with fraud or allegations of fraud. It would risk sending mixed messages to financial 
institutions. Occasionally mistakes will be made, but as long as they are honest and 
reasonable mistakes then I think that is better than erring too much on the side of caution 
and thereby allowing fraud to go unprevented. (People would complain about that instead.) 
So it would be wrong of me to uphold complaints against banks too readily in cases where 
they have taken the steps they thought were necessary to prevent fraud.
The blocking and closure of the account
For the same reasons, I think Santander acted reasonably in blocking Mr Ls account, and in 
notifying him that the account would be closed.
The decision to keep the account closed was made at the same time as the decision to 
remove the Cifas marker. By then, of course, Santander had accepted that Mr L was not a 
fraudster. So I can understand his disappointment at being told that his account would 
remain closed. But Santanders decision was made in spite of that fact.
Santander decided to continue with the account closure simply because it expected to 
receive more complaints from Mr Ls customers, and so as a result it was not prepared to 
accept the risk it thought he posed to the banks own business, even if the problem was not 
fraud but was only civil disputes. That was a commercial decision which Santander was 
entitled to make. That would normally require two months notice, but under paragraph 
17.3(e) of the account terms and conditions, the bank was entitled to give him less notice 
than that (in this case that was 30 days). That clause applies where there is reasonable 
suspicion of fraud, whether there actually was fraud or not.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mr L to decide whether to 
accept Santanders offer of £250, which I believe remains open (unless it has already been 
paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman