DRN-2393603
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim on her furniture warranty 
for damage to a coffee table.
What happened
Miss S purchased a five-year warranty underwritten by Great Lakes when she bought some 
furniture. She reported a small dent after something had been dropped on the wooden 
coffee table. And she also mentioned some small scratches thatd occurred during the 
lockdown period. But Miss S said the technician who reviewed the damage declined the 
claim for both types of damage.
 
Miss S is unhappy she couldnt use the warranty cover shed purchased. Shed claimed 
previously for similar damage. So she wants Great Lakes to repair the dints and scratches.
Great Lakes said a claim had been registered by Miss S and a technician had attended to 
inspect the damage. But the technician hadnt felt the damage was the result of a one-off 
insured event. The photographs and information supplied in the technicians report showed 
various marks and scratches to the surface and base of the table. And Great Lakes felt 
theyd built up over time. So the claim fell outside of the scope of the policy cover.
Mss S wasnt satisfied with Great Lakes response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She looked at the terms of the warranty. And she could 
see it excluded costs arising from stains and damage that was consistent with wear and tear 
or anything thatd happened gradually. Given the extent of the reported damage she agreed 
it wouldve built up over time and wasnt the result of a one-off incident. And she felt Great 
Lakes had acted fairly in declining the claim. 
Miss S didnt agree. So shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision. She was told the 
warranty would cover any damage. Previous repairs had been covered and this was no 
different.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Miss S contacted Great Lakes it says she reported a claim for general wear and tear 
caused by items being placed on the table. Miss S said something had been dropped that 
caused a dent to the top. And there were some small scratches she wanted the insurer to 
look at as well. Miss S said she used mats to protect the table. And wax had been applied 
when she could get hold of it to maintain the surface. 
Following an inspection the technician reported an indent to the coffee table top and three 
indents to the base as well as numerous surface scratches in both areas. The technician felt 
the claim was invalid as there were numerous cases of damage that had built up over time.
Miss S doesnt agree. She says the warranty should cover the damage. So Ive looked very 
carefully at everything Miss S and Great Lakes have said to see if Great Lakes has done 
anything wrong. And if so what it needs to do to put things right.
When deciding whether I think Great Lakes decision to decline the claim is fair I have to 
start by deciding whether an insured event has taken place. An insured event would be the 
cause of the damage. And it would be listed as an insured peril in the warranty document. 
But if the cause of the damage is noted as an exception Im sorry to say a claim cant be 
made.
In the section headed what is covered the furniture warranty includes damage to cabinet 
furniture which is sudden and accidental resulting from a number of causes including 
breakage, dents, chips and scratches. But the warranty notes an exception of stains and 
damage that is consistent with wear and tear or anything that happens gradually.
Great Lakes declined the claim as it feels the damage built up over a period of time and was 
therefore excluded. But Miss S says she couldnt report each small scratch or dent  
especially during a lockdown period when it was difficult to make contact or arrange visits. 
Miss S says it wasnt possible to contact the insurer by phone. But Ive not seen any 
evidence that Miss S tried to report the earlier damage by other methods such as email, 
even if a technician wouldnt have been able to inspect the damage during lockdown.
I realise how frustrating this mustve been for Miss S. Shed been able to claim for earlier 
damage successfully and she felt the warranty would cover her for this damage too. But 
Great Lakes say the previous repairs were for claims for single incidents of accidental 
damage. And in this case the amount and type of damage wasnt consistent with a single 
(insured) event  the extent of the damage was more in keeping with gradual wear and tear.
Ive looked at the technicians report and the supporting photos of the various marks and 
dents to the coffee table. And report does show numerous small scratches and dents to both 
the table surface and base area.
Based on what Ive seen I dont think Great Lakes acted wrongly in suggesting the damage 
had built up over a period of time. It doesnt seem to have been the result of a one-off 
insured event. So I cant say Great Lakes acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining 
Miss Ss claim on this occasion. And I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman