DRN-2184980
The complaint
Mr D complains about the way that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has recorded information 
about his motor insurance claims history on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE).
What happened
Mr D made a claim on his motor insurance policy on 1 March 2016. UKI settled the claim 
and it recorded information about the incident on CUE. 
UKI only asks policyholders to declare claims theyve made during the past three years 
when theyre applying for a new motor insurance policy. So Mr D felt that the claim shouldve 
been removed from CUE in March 2019  three years after itd been settled.  
Mr D was unhappy that his claims history is still recorded on CUE, more than three years 
after settlement. He said that its led to him paying a higher premium for insurance cover. He 
asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. She explained that if an 
insurers signed up to CUE, its obliged to record any incidents or claims a policyholder 
makes it aware of. These claims remain on CUE for six years after a claims closed. She 
said that wed only ask an insurer to amend or remove an inaccurate record. She was 
satisfied Mr D had made a claim in March 2016 and so the information had been recorded 
on CUE correctly.
Mr D disagreed. In summary, he said his contract was between him and UKI  he had no 
relationship with CUE. He felt UKI had included a three-year fault period within his policy 
terms and if this had changed, UKI shouldve let him know. He considered it was 
unreasonable for UKI not to remove his claims record from CUE.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. I need to make it clear that in this decision, 
Im only considering the information thats been recorded about the motor claim Mr D made 
on 1 March 2016. I appreciate he also complained to us about whats recorded on CUE 
about a second motor claim and a household claim. But it doesnt appear he raised these 
issues with UKI and it hasnt had the chance to look into them. So it wouldnt be appropriate 
for me to comment specifically on those claims here. I also need to make it clear that CUE 
itself isnt a regulated activity that we have the power to look into. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think UKI has treated Mr D fairly. Ill explain why.
First, Ive looked at whether UKI was reasonably entitled to pass on the information about Mr 
Ds claim on 1 March 2016 to CUE. The terms of Mr Ds contract say that UKI will pass on 
information about his policy to the Motor Insurance Database, which is managed by the 
Motor Insurers Bureau. The Motor Insurance Bureau manages CUE. 
It might be helpful if I explain the purpose of CUE. Its a database of insurance incidents 
across multiple types of policies  including motor insurance - which insurers can refer to 
when theyre deciding whether to offer a consumer insurance. If an insurer is signed up to 
CUE, as UKI is, itll record any incident its told about, even if a policyholder doesnt go on to 
make a claim or the claim isnt paid. An insurer will also record any amount its settled for a 
claim. Based on all Ive seen, Im satisfied UKI was entitled to record information about Mr 
Ds claim on CUE.
Insurers must make accurate records on CUE though. In this case, both parties now accept 
that Mr Ds claim was made on 1 March 2016. So Im satisfied the record on CUE notes the 
date of Mr Ds claim correctly. CUE records remain on the database until six years after a 
claim is closed. So Mr Ds claim will remain on CUEs database until 2022.  I understand Mr 
Ds unhappy about this because he has no contractual relationship with CUE. But because I 
think Mr Ds claim information has been correctly recorded and because I think UKI was 
entitled to record this information, I wont be directing UKI to amend or remove the record.
Mr D believes that his motor insurance contract with UKI includes a three-year fault period, 
which directly contradicts the timeframe applicable to CUE records. Ive thought carefully 
about this and Ive looked closely at the terms of Mr Ds policy. I havent seen anything in the 
terms of the contract which leads me to think that UKI will delete external records of claims 
after three years. What I can see though is that when a policyholder applies for this particular 
motor insurance policy with UKI, they are asked about any claims or losses that have 
happened in the last three years. This suggests that UKI only takes into account claims 
thatve happened in the last three years when its assessing whether or not to offer 
insurance cover and if so, on what terms. 
We generally wont tell insurers how they should assess risk, or what information they should 
take into account when considering whether to provide a policyholder with insurance. Some 
insurers may want to know about claims that happened within a five-year period, some a 
three-year period etc. Even if UKI chooses to only ask about claims that happened during 
the previous three years, it isnt responsible for what other insurers want to know about a 
policyholders claims history, how they use CUE or how they use that information to assess 
risk.
Overall, I dont think UKI has made any errors in the way its administered Mr Ds motor 
claim history. So I wont be telling it to take any action.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman