DRN-3758920
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) acted irresponsibly by increasing his 
overdraft limit when it was already aware he was in financial difficulty and that Lloyds acted 
unfairly by continuing to apply charges to his account when he was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Mr J had an overdraft with Lloyds with a limit of £1,000. In May 2021 Mr J successfully 
applied online to increase this limit to £1,150 and then £1,600 a couple of days later. Mr J 
complained to Lloyds that it was irresponsible allowing the increase when it had been told 
about his financial difficulties and was unhappy about the charges applied to his bank 
account. 
Lloyds said it was satisfied it hadnt made a mistake when agreeing the increased limits as it 
had checked affordability and based on its checks and the information provided it thought 
the limit increases were affordable. Lloyds declined to refund any charges as they had been 
applied correctly and no error had been made on its part.
Mr J was dis-satisfied with this and bought his complaint to this service. 
Lloyds said we couldnt look at the overdraft lending decisions and charges applied to his 
overdraft before March 2021 as that had been the subject of a previous complaint made by 
Mr J. 
An adjudicator looked at this complaint and thought that if Lloyds had carried out a 
proportionate check when Mr J made his overdraft limit increase applications in May 2021 it 
would likely have shown Mr J was having problems managing his money. And as Mr J had 
already been in touch regarding his financial difficulties Lloyds shouldnt have agreed to 
increase his overdraft limit to £1,150. They thought that Lloyds should refund all interest and 
overdraft charges applied from 26 May 2021. 
Lloyds agreed to settle Mr Js complaint in line with our adjudicators recommendations and 
would refund all interest, fees and charges applied to the account from 26 May 2021 which 
taking into account previous refunds received amounted to £43.69. Lloyds said it would also 
reduce Mr Js overdraft facility of £100 to £60 as part of the settlement.  
Mr J didnt wish to accept this offer he wants further compensation for the suffering he 
experienced financially and mentally and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, to be clear my decision only covers the overdraft lending decisions made by Lloyds 
from March 2021. 
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr J is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been charged the fees and given the 
credit they shouldnt have.
So where a business continues to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should 
have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This 
means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit 
from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. 
I can see from Lloyds contact notes that Mr J had previously informed it about his financial 
struggles, had recently complained about irresponsible lending and just two days before the 
limit increase Mr J was asked to complete his income and expenditure.
So Im in agreement with our adjudicator that the decision to increase Mr Js overdraft limit in 
May 2021 was not a responsible lending decision as Mr J had already told Lloyds that he 
was struggling financially and it wasnt affordable for him. Just a cursory look at Mr Js bank 
statements show he couldnt maintain a credit balance with his current overdraft limit and 
had a number of other financial commitments including payday loans. Lloyds ought to have 
realised it was unlikely Mr J would be able to sustainably repay the extra lent within a 
reasonable period of time.
Mr J says that a refund of £43.69 is unacceptable as hes had to get external loans to pay off 
his overdraft and that it is unfair to reduce the overdraft as it negates the refund on offer. Mr 
J wants to be compensated for the suffering he has experienced both mentally and 
financially. But Lloyds has offered to do what Id normally expect it to do here.
All the interest, fees and charges Lloyds shouldnt have added will be removed from what Mr 
J now needs to pay. So what Mr J is left with to repay are the funds which he used and 
benefitted from. I accept Mr J has suffered financially over the years, but I dont agree that 
the interest, fees and charges Lloyds applied have left him with a debt that he wouldnt 
otherwise have been left with. And I dont think having a complaint upheld is in itself a 
compelling reason for me to depart from our usual approach here.
So with this in mind Im satisfied that what Lloyds has already agreed to do to put things right 
for Mr J is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not requiring it to 
do anything more. 
As this is the case, its up to Mr J to decide whether he wishes to accept Lloyds offer.    My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Mr J is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. So 
Im not requiring it to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman