DRN-3446908
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has dealt with his claim made 
under his home emergency insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to this case is well known to both parties and has been summarised by our 
investigator in her view of the complaint, so I wont repeat it here in detail.
Briefly stated, Mr H made a claim on his home emergency cover in April 2021 because his 
home was without hot water and heating. During the process of the repairs Mr H says IPAs 
engineers had damaged his boiler and hadnt correctly diagnosed the initial fault. 
IPA disagreed so didnt carry out further repairs to the boiler. Mr H provided an independent 
report as to the cause of the damage. IPA accepted the damage was most likely caused by 
its engineers. However, in the meantime Mr H replaced the boiler with a new one which he 
says was only necessary due to the damage caused by IPAs engineers. IPA offered Mr H 
£150 compensation. Mr H didnt consider that the compensation offered was sufficient and 
brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigators view was that IPA should do more to compensate Mr H. But as the boiler 
had been replaced with a new one she didnt think it was reasonable to ask IPA to pay for it, 
so she said IPA should pay Mr H the following:
£244.63 towards the likely repair costs of the damage caused to the previous boiler 
£140 towards the cost of the independent report plus 8% interest from when Mr H 
paid for it
£150 compensation IPA had already offered for the distress and inconvenience 
caused 
IPA agreed, but Mr H considered that this amount didnt adequately compensate him for the 
inconvenience caused by IPAs actions. Mr H says the only reason he needed to get a new 
boiler was because of IPAs actions so didnt feel it was betterment and he feels he should 
be compensated significantly more towards the replacement cost. He asked for his 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, so it was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold the complaint and I largely agree with the conclusions 
reached by the investigator. Ill explain why. 
Theres no dispute now that the damaged to the boiler was most likely caused by IPAs 
appointed engineers. IPA have accepted this. So the main issues outstanding here are:
whether the original repair was correctly diagnosed, 
if IPA should pay towards any further costs that may have been incurred in repairing 
the old boiler e.g. to the flue, and
whether IPA should pay more compensation towards Mr Hs new boiler costs.
Diagnosis
Mr H says when IPAs engineers initially diagnosed the issues with the boiler it wasnt done 
correctly, and it wasnt in line with the manufacturers guidance. Mr H says this left him 
worse off because IPA ultimately replaced the wrong part which then lead to the damage to 
the spigot/elbow. So he feels if the correct part had been initially diagnosed it wouldnt have 
led to the damage to his boiler and the need for him to pay for a replacement. 
I understand Mr Hs frustrations with this, but IPAs engineers were the experts looking at 
this issue, it was for them to diagnose and decide on how they best thought to repair the 
issue with the boiler. Whilst I appreciate Mr Hs plumber may have diagnosed it differently 
that doesnt necessarily mean what IPAs engineers did was incorrect. And its not 
uncommon for there to be a number of connected issues and for engineers to use a process 
of elimination to get to the root cause of the issue. 
Mr Hs own plumbers report says you might have had more than one problem with the 
boilerI would had started with the electronic panelbut to do that you need to contact the 
technical teamand minimise the problems one by one. 
So Im satisfied that IPA didnt act unreasonably in the way it diagnosed the initial issue with 
the boiler, although that doesnt necessarily mean that there werent still other issues with it 
that may have needed looking into. 
Possible further damage to boiler
Mr H says the damage caused to the boiler by IPAs engineers would have led to further 
problems and resulted in more costs for him. Mr H decided to have the boiler replaced 
instead of potentially incurring further repair costs. I can understand Mr Hs concerns and 
from the information provided by Mr Hs plumber it says the flue could easily get damaged. 
But it was only a possibility that the flue may have been damaged and as no attempt was 
made to repair the boiler, Im not satisfied that the flue definitely would have been damaged 
during the repair. So in the circumstances I cant fairly ask IPA to compensate Mr H for 
something that might not have happened. 
Further compensation 
IPA offered £150 compensation to Mr H for the poor service provided but Mr H didnt agree. 
He said IPA should pay for the overlimit payment for the initial repair, the independent 
engineers report and for his new replacement boiler. 
Subsequently Mr H and IPA both provided quotes on what it may have cost to repair the 
boiler. The quotes were significantly different with IPA suggesting it would cost £130 for 
parts and labour but Mr Hs plumber quoting £690 for the same. So Ive considered the 
information provided by both parties on this. 
From the information provided the parts would most likely have cost £24.43 and not £210 as 
suggested by Mr Hs plumber. Ive also considered the difference in the labour cost 
suggested by both parties, its likely that IPAs labour costs would have been provided on a 
discounted rate that it would benefit from, so I think the hourly rate provided by Mr Hs plumber is a fairer option, in these circumstances. 
There is also a dispute about the time the repair would have taken with IPA suggesting it 
would only take one hour 30 minutes, but Mr Hs plumber says it would take the best part of 
half a day. The investigator suggested two hours would be reasonable and I agree. I say this 
because I cant be certain of the time that it might have taken to carry out the repair but on 
balance I think two hours is fair in the circumstances taking into account what has been 
quoted by both Mr Hs plumber and IPA. 
I appreciate Mr H feels that had it not been for the damage caused to his boiler he wouldnt 
have had to get a new one. But no attempt was made by Mr H to get it repaired. I dont think 
its fair or proportionate to the nature of the damage to expect IPA to pay for a new boiler to 
replace the old one. Mr Hs boiler was at least 15 years old, so I think asking IPA to pay for a 
new replacement would result in betterment. 
If things had gone as they should have, Id have expected IPA to repair the boiler and not to 
replace it with a new one or to pay a significant cost towards replacing it with a new one. So I 
think the fair thing to do here would be to ask IPA to pay the cost of the repair, because I 
cant be certain that the repair would have resolved all the issues with it and its likely Mr H 
would have incurred some further costs in repairing it, as hed already reached his policy 
limit.
Mr H says he would like a meaningful apology and for us to ask IPA to confirm what actions 
they are taking to correct business practices. I must be clear here our role isnt to tell 
businesses what policies and practices they should use, that would be the role of the 
regulator. But I do think IPA should issue Mr H an apology for the trouble and upset caused 
by the poor service provided. 
I understand Mr H will be disappointed with my decision. And while I think IPA should do 
more to compensate Mr H, I dont think it needs to cover the costs to replace the boiler.
Putting things right
Mr H paid £140 for the independent plumbers report so in light of my findings above I think 
IPA should reimburse him the amount he paid for the report. 
IPA have acknowledged the damage to the spigot/elbow was caused by its engineers so IPA 
should pay Mr H the amount it would have cost to repair the damage. As mentioned above 
IPA should pay Mr H £240 for labour costs and a further £24.43 for parts.
IPA should also write Mr H a letter of apology for the poor service and pay Mr H £150 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Inter Partner 
Assistance SA to do the following:
pay Mr H £140 to reimburse him for the cost of the independent plumbers report. 
Plus 8% simple interest from the date he paid for the report to the date it makes the 
payment*
pay Mr H £264.43 in compensation for the damage caused to his boiler comprising of 
£240 labour costs and £24.43 for parts.pay Mr H £150 for the trouble and upset caused by its poor service if it hasnt been 
paid already 
write to Mr H to apologise for its poor handling of the situation, and for not sorting it 
out more quickly when he complained 
*If Inter Partner Assistance SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman