DRN-2712934
The complaint
Mr and Ms S complain that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC (RSA) didnt diagnose a 
leak, under their home emergency policy. 
What happened
In December 2019, Mr and Ms S reported a leak coming from a water tank in their home, to 
RSA. RSA sent an engineer who inspected various rooms but didnt find a leak. Mr and Ms S 
said that they asked the engineer if the leak could be behind a bath panel, with the engineer 
telling them that the leak was unlikely to come from this area. Sometime later, Mr and Ms S 
decided to repaint and refurbish the room that had become water damaged. 
In July 2020, another leak occurred. Mr and Ms S said it was identical to the first leak as it 
occurred in the same place. When they investigated the source of the leak, they found that a 
pipe under the bath was leaking. Mr and Ms S said that had the previous engineer 
thoroughly examined the pipe under the bath in December 2019, he would have detected 
the leak. His failure in doing so, resulted in the second leak. Which caused damage to Mr 
and Ms S kitchen including electrical appliances. 
Mr and Ms S contacted RSA and raised a complaint. In its final response, RSA said that its 
engineer carried out all the necessary actions relating to the leak. He was unable to locate a 
leak at the time. But those actions didnt contribute to the damage caused to their home in 
July 2020. It also said that there was a gap of around seven months between the leaks and 
so there was no evidence of a link between the leaks. RSA relied upon the terms and 
conditions of the policy, as it didnt allow for the trace and access of the leak. 
Mr and Ms S were not happy with RSAs response and referred a complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said 
that RSA had acted unfairly as it was reasonable that an engineer would explore all avenues 
to find the source of the leak. And here the engineer didnt do this. So, RSA should put 
matters right by paying for the water damage caused to the property and pay some of the 
cost for the hob that was damaged. 
RSA didnt agree with our investigator as it said that there was a seven-month gap between 
the leaks and there was no evidence to show that there was a link between the leaks. It said 
that the terms and conditions of the policy said that a leak had to be traced prior to its 
engineers attendance - which didnt happen here.  So, it asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 22 February 2021 and asked both parties to send me anything else 
by 24 March 2021. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im minded not to uphold this complaint. I understand that this will come as 
a disappointment to Mr and Ms S, but I hope my findings go some way to explain why Ive 
reached this decision.
I have considered the comments by both parties, the evidence from the engineers and the 
terms and conditions of the policy. I should make it clear that this complaint relates to the 
two leaks that happened in December 2019 and July 2020. Having reviewed the evidence, 
the main issues here I think, are whether there was a link between the two leaks and 
whether RSAs first engineers inaction resulted in the second leak.   
The first leak was reported in December 2019. I have looked at the contact notes and 
listened to the call recordings. Mr and Ms S reported that the leak came from the water tank 
in the loft and that they had turned off the hot water and central heating as a result. They 
also said that they believed that the leak could have been caused by the overflow that they 
thought was blocked and the water was coming back into the property. Or that the stopcock 
was faulty. They said that the leak had stopped as they had turned the water off and that 
they had previously had this problem about four or five times in the past.
The engineer who attended confirmed that although no photographs had been taken by him 
of the areas that he inspected, he did write a report detailing the areas that he looked at. He 
said that he checked the water tank and pipes as directed by Mr and Ms S and he found no 
leaks in that area. Mr and Ms S said that there were other areas that the engineer inspected. 
I have not seen any information from the engineer to confirm this or not, but I cant see any 
reason why this wouldnt have happened as Mr and Ms S said.  Following this inspection, 
the engineer found no other leaks. 
The main issue of contention was whether Mr and Ms S asked the engineer to inspect under 
the bath. RSA said that the engineer didnt inspect under the bath (which accords with Mr 
and Ms S recollection) because this wasnt what had been reported to RSA as the source of 
the leak.
Mr and Ms S said that they asked the engineer whether the leak could be coming from 
behind the bath panel to which they said the engineer told them it is not going to be there. 
RSA confirmed that given the passage of time, its engineer couldnt recall what was said. 
But had Mr and Ms S provided access under the bath to its engineer, then the engineer 
wouldve checked under the bath for any leaks. 
Furthermore, RSA relied upon the policy clause which said:
If a leak from internal pipework is discovered and is not directly accessible, the leak must be 
traced and exposed prior to the CORGI HomePlan engineer's attendance. We will be unable 
to repair the fault until you have traced the leak and arranged for access to be made. 
I have thought about what this means. Mr and Ms S initially reported that the leak was 
coming from the water tank in the loft. They told the call handler that they had previously had 
leaks from that area on a few occasions. They said that prior to the engineers attendance, the loft hatch was exposed and made easily accessible. They said that it wouldve been 
unreasonable for them to have identified the source of any leak and expose the area prior to 
an engineers visit. But I think that is exactly what they did here. They initially reported the 
source of the leak being in the loft. They exposed the loft area for easy accessibility, the area 
was examined, and no leak was found. I think it would be reasonable, if they felt that the leak 
could possibly be coming from behind the bath (despite not initially reporting this to RSA), to 
have removed the bath panel for inspection to have taken place. Which Mr and Ms S didnt 
do here.  And, I dont think it would have been unreasonable for them to have done this and 
in doing so, complied with the terms of the policy. 
I have next looked at whether RSAs first engineers inaction caused the second leak. Mr 
and Ms S have said that because this engineer failed to examine behind the bath, he failed 
to detect the leak and this leak was in the same area as the leak that was discovered in July 
2020. For this, RSA should pay for the damage caused following the leak in July 2020. 
RSA said that there was no evidence of any link between the two leaks, that there had been 
around seven months between the two leaks and had the leak been in the same area, it 
wouldve presented itself earlier. 
I have reviewed the second engineers contact notes regarding the leak that happened in 
July 2020. It confirmed that this leak was found under the bath tub coming from the hot water 
pipe. The notes also said that some copper and flexible piping was needed to repair the leak 
as the current pipework that had been there, was leaking due to wear and tear. 
Given that the expert evidence as it currently stands, identifies wear and tear as a cause of 
the second leak, rather than because of a continuous leak, on balance, I dont think there is 
enough evidence to show that there was a link between the two leaks.  Of course, if Mr and 
Ms S can provide expert evidence that shows there is a link, then I will consider this. 
Taking all of this into account, it doesnt seem likely that there was a link between both leaks. 
Nor does it seem that the first engineers inaction caused the second leak. So, I cant fairly 
ask RSA to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
Responses to my provisional decision
RSA has not commented on my provisional decision. Mr and Ms S have made the following 
main comments:
Misdiagnosis - the first engineer did not diagnose or trace the leak. 
Access and trace the clause relating to the access and trace in the policy is 
unreasonable as this would be the job of an expert not a lay person. Also removing 
the bath panel was unnecessary to locate the leak. 
Possible sources of the leak - No reasonable person would expect that the 
identification/trace of a leak in their house fell to them to locate. 
Connection between the leaks  this was a continuous leak and there had been a 
drip drip effect which led to a build up of water and resulted in the leak. Further, the 
leaks followed the same pattern and only one pipe was found to be leaking. So, the 
leaks werent connected. 
I have carefully considered the comments made by Mr and Ms S. I asked Mr and Ms S to 
obtain expert evidence from an engineer who could provide an expert opinion as to whether 
there was a connection between the first and second leak. This wasnt provided. Consequently, the only expert evidence that I can rely upon was that of RSAs two 
engineers. The second engineer in his written report didnt conclude that there was a link 
between the two leaks. He said that the issue with the leak was due to the wear and tear of 
the pipe. 
The first engineer didnt locate a leak at all in the areas that Mr and Ms S originally reported 
to RSA as the source of the leak. Further, Mr and Ms S have now confirmed that the first 
engineer did shine a torch in the bathroom tank and still didnt locate a leak. So, without any 
independent expert evidence from Mr and Ms S, that opposes RSAs experts, I think it is 
more likely than not, that there wasnt a link between the two leaks. 
I have further reviewed the policy terms and conditions. Mr and Ms S said that that it would 
be unreasonable for them to have identify/trace the source of a leak as this is the job of an 
expert. RSA relied upon the following term of the policy: 
If a leak from internal pipework is discovered and is not directly accessible, the leak must be 
traced and exposed prior to the CORGI HomePlan engineer's attendance. We will be unable 
to repair the fault until you have traced the leak and arranged for access to be made. 
I think that Mr and Ms S would have had the responsibility to have exposed where they felt 
the leak was coming from before the engineer attended, which they didnt do here. 
In the circumstances, Im not satisfied that Mr and Ms S have provided enough evidence to 
show that there was a link between the two leaks and that the actions of the first engineer, 
contributed to the second leak. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint, for the reasons given above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman