DRN-3964700
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs J complain about Homepro Limited trading as Homepro Insurance and their 
refusal to cover the costs required to complete the build of their conservatory.
For ease of reference, as Mr J has acted as the main representative through the claim and 
complaint process, I will refer to any actions taken, or comments made by either Mr J or Mrs 
J as Mr J throughout the decision.
What happened
In the summer of 2021, Mr J instructed a contractor, who Ill refer to as X, to install a 
conservatory at his property. As part of the agreement Mr J entered into, X explained Mr J 
would be covered by a Warranty Insurance cover policy administered by Homepro, that X 
paid for as part of their business offering.
Unfortunately, Mr J was unhappy with the work X undertook, which Mr J felt remained 
unfinished. So, he contacted Homepro to claim on the policy they administered. But 
Homepro explained the policy could only be activated when the works were completed. And 
as they were ongoing, there was no policy to make a claim on. Mr J was unhappy about this, 
so he raised a complaint.
Mr J was unhappy that Homepro had refused to activate the policy when he called them in 
early 2022. And so, he was unhappy that in late 2022, he was told the policy couldnt be 
claimed on. Mr J didnt think it was fair that he was left without a completed conservatory and 
that he was no longer able to contact X or arrange for the remaining works to be completed. 
So, he wanted the works to be completed or if not, a refund of the fees hed paid to X. And, 
he wanted to be compensated for the upset and suffering he and his family had endured.
Homepro responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained the policy Mr J 
wanted to claim on hadnt been activated correctly, as the build of the conservatory hadnt 
been completed to Mr Js satisfaction. And they provided Mr J with a copy of the activation 
letter they sent in the summer of 2021. So, while they empathised with Mr Js situation, they 
advised he would need to pursue his concerns with X, who they no longer associated with 
and believed may have ceased trading. Mr J remained unhappy with this response, so he 
referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They were satisfied that, for 
the policy administered by Homepro to be active, the build of the conservatory needed to be 
completed to Mr Js satisfaction. As the build hadnt been completed, our investigator didnt 
think an active policy had been put in place. So, he didnt think Homepro had acted unfairly 
when not assisting Mr J any further. Nor did he think Homepro gave Mr J incorrect 
information on the call held in early 2022. So, our investigator didnt think Homepro needed 
to do anything more. Mr J remained unhappy with this response and so, he referred his 
complaint to us.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly what Ive been able to consider. In this situation, Homepro acted as an insurance 
intermediary, meaning they were responsible for the administration aspect of the warranty 
insurance cover. This included the activation of the policy. The warranty insurance policy 
itself was underwritten by a separate insurer. So, Homepro were never liable, or responsible, 
for any claim made against the policy itself.
Crucially, the policy was never activated and so, the insurer of the policy never took on the 
risk of Mr Js conservatory. So, it wouldnt be within my powers, nor would it be reasonable, 
for me to direct Homepro to arrange or cover the costs of the remaining building work to Mr 
Js conservatory. And I havent considered this any further.
Instead, Ive focused on the actions Homepro have taken in their role as the policy 
administrator and thought about whether I think they were fair. This includes the information 
they provided to Mr J regarding the activation of his policy both in writing, and on the call 
made in early 2022. And having done so, I dont think Homepro have done anything wrong.
Ive seen the activation letter Homepro say was sent to Mr J in June 2021. While I cant see 
for sure this was sent at this time, Ive seen a further copy was sent to Mr J in November 
2022 for his reference. 
This activation letter explains that once your works satisfaction is registered, Warranty 
Insurance will cover the written guarantee given to you by the contractor. It also explains 
that Once the works at your property have been completed entirely to your satisfaction, you 
may request your Warranty Insurance policy. You should do this as soon after the 
completion of your works as possible.
And Ive seen the terms of the policy Mr J wouldve activated, which explain that the cover 
becomes effective on the completion date of the conservatory build.
In this case, its not disputed that the build hadnt been completed to Mr Js satisfaction. Mr J 
has confirmed this to our service, as well as to Homepro within his complaint and crucially, 
on the call he held with Homepro in early 2022. So, as Mr J confirmed on this call further 
work was needed, I dont think I can say Homepro acted unfairly when explaining they were 
unable to activate the insurance policy, as this is a fundamental condition of the policy being 
provided. And because of this, I dont think they need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr J was hoping for. And I appreciate it doesnt help Mr 
Js immediate situation as hes still left with a conservatory that he feels needs further work 
to be completed satisfactorily. I also recognise there are concerns about the trading status of 
X, which may impact Mr Js chances of securing X to complete the further work needed. But, 
while I do empathise with the situation Mr J finds himself in, I dont think Mr J is in this 
situation because of anything Homepro have done wrong. And so, I dont think its is the 
responsibility of Homepro to rectify Mr Js situation here.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr J and Mrs Js complaint about Homepro 
Limited, trading as Homepro Insurance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman