DRN-4203835
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct (First Direct) wont refund the 
money he lost after he fell victim to an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and has been laid out in 
detail by our Investigator, so I wont repeat it all here.
But briefly, both parties accept that Mr P was the victim of a scam after he found a vehicle, 
advertised on a well-known auto trader website, that he was interested in buying. Mr P 
contacted the seller and agreed to pay a deposit, with the remaining balance to be paid on 
the day the vehicle was due to be delivered.
Mr P made the following payments;
27 July 2022 £2,395
28 July 2022 £10,797.75
29 July 2022 £10,797.75
But when it came to the day of delivery the vehicle didnt arrive. Mr P has said he then 
became more suspicious that hed been scammed, when he searched on DVLA and could 
see that a MOT hadnt been carried out (which Mr P had arranged to be done with the 
seller). As well as this, Mr P then researched the seller and could see the company had only 
been set up a few days before. Unknown to Mr P at the time he had been dealing with 
fraudsters and had sent his payments to accounts the fraudsters controlled.
First Direct is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP  
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. First Direct said that there were 
sufficient fraud measures in place when Mr P sent his payments. It deemed Mr P liable, as it 
said he could have taken more caution and carried out more checks. First Direct did contact 
the beneficiary bank (the bank to which the payments were made) in an attempt to recover 
the money Mr P had sent, but it was only able to recover £52.16, which it returned to him.
Unhappy with First Directs response, Mr P brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things and thought it ought to be upheld. In summary, she didnt 
believe First Direct had fairly assessed Mr Ps claim under the CRM Code. She said that 
First Direct presented a warning when the first payment was made, but she didnt think the 
warning was effective. Although she added that she didnt think First Direct needed to 
provide a warning for the first payment, as she didnt think it posed enough of a risk.
But she thought it ought to have provided a tailored warning for the second and third 
payments, which it didnt do. She thought the payments were so out of character that      
First Direct ought to have intervened and discussed the payments with Mr P before allowing 
them to be progressed, and her view was that if it had done so it would have made a 
difference and prevented the scam. Our Investigator also concluded that Mr P had a 
reasonable basis for belief when making the payments.
As the bank disagreed with our Investigators view the case has been referred to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to  
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the  
time.
As Ive mentioned above, the CRM Code provides additional protection for the victims of 
APP scams. Im satisfied that the payments Mr P made fall within the scope of the          
CRM  Code. But despite offering additional protections, the CRM Code includes provisions  
allowing a firm not to reimburse APP scam losses fully where the firm can establish that the  
customer failed to take sufficient care when making the payment (often referred to as the  
exceptions to reimbursement).
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish  
that*: 
- The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:  
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for  
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted  
was legitimate.
- The customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate steps in 
response to that warning.
*There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code that do not apply to this case.
When assessing whether it can establish these things, a Firm must consider whether they  
would have had a material effect on preventing the APP scam.
So, in deciding the fair outcome for this complaint, I must first determine whether First Direct 
has established these exceptions to reimbursement can be fairly applied.
I agree with our Investigator that I dont think the circumstances of the first payment would 
have alerted First Direct that Mr P may have been at risk. The payment, while not 
insignificant, was not so unusual or out of character, when compared to his typical account 
activity that I think it ought to have caused First Direct concern that Mr P was at risk.
First Direct did provide a warning for the first payment. But, in any event, Im not persuaded 
the warning was sufficiently specific or impactful to amount to an effective warning in line 
with SF1(2) of the CRM Code. While I acknowledge the warning does, at least in part, make 
reference to the type of scam Mr P was falling victim to, Im not persuaded the warning and 
guidance was clear. The warning wasnt specific to the circumstances that Mr P found 
himself in and the start of the warning gives reference to a different scam type altogether. I think the second and third payments Mr P went on to make, ought to have alerted           
First Direct to the potential that their customer may have been at risk. And in these 
circumstances, I would have expected it to provide Mr P with a warning for both of these 
payments. In not doing so, Im not persuaded that First Direct has been able to establish that 
Mr P has ignored effective warnings.
Im also satisfied that First Direct has not shown that Mr P lacked a reasonable basis for 
believing that the payments he made were for genuine goods or services. I say that 
because;
- Mr P had been able to communicate with the seller, through both phone calls and 
messages, and was able to ask questions about the car. He carried out a DVLA 
check and questioned why there wasnt a MOT. Following which Im satisfied he was 
given a persuasive story, that a MOT would be completed ahead of the vehicle being 
delivered to him.
- Mr P was provided with legitimate looking invoices and has explained that the 
company had a professional looking website, adding to Mr Ps belief that he was 
dealing with a genuine company.
- The price of the vehicle here wasnt too good to be true, as can often be the case in 
scams like this. An independent valuation website (rather than advertisements) 
states the car would be worth only a small amount more than the price Mr P agreed 
to pay. So I dont think the price Mr P agreed to pay was so good that it ought to have 
led him to have suspected things may not have been as they appeared.
- Its important to remember, when making an assessment of reasonable basis for  
belief under the CRM Code, that the customers actions must be considered against  
what was happening at the time. That is to say that subscribers to the CRM Code like  
First Direct ought not look back on a scam with the benefit of hindsight. It would of 
course  have been better if Mr P had check the company on Companies House 
before making the payment, and with hindsight he may have been more concerned 
that the MOT wasnt showing with the DVLA. But the fact that Mr P didnt do so here 
doesnt automatically mean that he acted unreasonably or that he lacked a 
reasonable basis for belief that he was making a legitimate transaction.
- Im also mindful that the purchasing of cars without seeing them first is becoming  
increasingly common  something Im satisfied HSBC is aware of - and so it wouldnt 
be fair to say that to do so  in and of itself  is to act unreasonably.
- HSBC has said Mr P received a confirmation of payee (COP) match for the first 
payment.  Although Mr P was paying an individual here, rather than a company, I 
think the fact the initials of the individual matched those within the company name it 
is understandable why Mr P moved passed this and it didnt cause him any concern. 
Indeed I think the purpose of COP is more to alert consumers to no match or partial 
match situations, rather than for them to have concerns when bank account details 
match the name of who they are paying.  
Overall Im persuaded Mr P had a reasonable basis for believing that the payee was the 
person he was expecting to pay; the payments were for genuine goods or services and the 
person with whom he transacted was legitimate.
Should First Direct have done more to prevent the scam?In addition, I think that First Direct ought reasonably to have done more to prevent the scam 
from the time Mr P made the second payment.
The payment was out of character for him, when compared to his typical account activity in 
the months leading up to the scam. It followed in quick succession to another, not 
insignificant payment, to a new payee. With this, I think there was enough going on that   
First Direct ought fairly and reasonably to have been alert that Mr P may have been at risk of 
financial harm.
Mr P isnt an expert in matters relating to fraud nor had experience in purchasing vehicles. 
So, had he been asked the purpose of the payment  for a vehicle, First Direct would have 
been in a position to provide him with what to look out for in relation to vehicle purchase 
scams. It could have stressed the importance of seeing the vehicle or obtaining further 
detailed information about the vehicle such as documents prior to making payment.
Importantly, I think that had Mr P been warned that fake companies and websites are set up  
and a common vehicle scam involves paying for a vehicle upfront with the promise for it to  
be delivered  and then for it not to arrive, Mr P would have taken steps to ensure he didnt 
fall victim to this type of scam. And I think it is reasonable to suggest that Mr P wouldnt have  
proceeded with the payment until he had carried out some further steps / checks and  
satisfied himself that everything was ok. So, I think an opportunity was missed by First Direct  
and the loss could have been prevented from the point Mr P made the second payment.
The relevance of this finding is that First Direct ought to have prevented the loss from the 
second payment. It follows that First Direct should pay Mr P interest at 8% simple interest 
per year from the date of loss (for payments two and three) rather than from the date it 
decided not to refund him under the CRM Code.
Overall I am satisfied that under the CRM Code, First Direct hasnt established any of the  
permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply. And I am also satisfied that First Direct could  
have done more to intervene on the second payment which would have prevented the loss.
Putting things right
For the reasons explained above, I think its fair that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first 
direct should now;
- Refund Mr P the balance of the money lost through this scam, being the sum of 
£23,990.50 (less any sums already reimbursed or otherwise refunded) and;
- pay 8% simple interest per year on the amount of the first payment  calculated from 
the date HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct declined Mr Ps claim under the 
CRM Code
- pay 8% simple interest per year on the amount of the second and third payments - 
calculated from the date of these respective payments.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman