DRN-2866724
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums they
paid for a travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 14 February 2020, Mr and Mrs G took out a single trip travel insurance policy through a
broker, which was underwritten by Great Lakes. The policy was taken out to cover a trip Mr
and Mrs G had planned to take between 19 April and 3 May 2020. Mr and Mrs G paid
£121.78 for the policy.
However, on 17 March 2020, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all
but essential travel as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr and Mrs Gs holiday was
cancelled by their provider and so they tried to get in touch with Great Lakes to cancel their
policy. They say they werent able to get through for a couple of weeks. So on 7 April 2020,
Mr and Mrs G got in touch with Great Lakes by email. Great Lakes tried to call them back on
the same day but couldnt get through. So it sent Mr and Mrs G an email asking them to get
back in contact. Mr and Mrs G replied to Great Lakes the following day, but didnt hear
anything more until 29 April 2020, when they contacted it again to make a complaint. At this
point, Great Lakes responded to Mr and Mrs G.
It didnt offer Mr and Mrs G a cash refund of the premium theyd paid. It cancelled their policy
and backdated the cancellation to 7 April 2020  the date Mr and Mrs G had first emailed it.
Ultimately, it offered them a pro-rata credit voucher for the portion of their unused cover,
which could be put towards another policy and which would be valid for 36 months. Its total
pro-rata voucher offer was £41.08 for the period of unused cover.
Mr and Mrs G werent happy with Great Lakes offer and they asked us to look into their
complaint. They said they werent in a position to use the credit voucher and so they
considered they were entitled to a full cash refund of their premiums. They also wanted
compensation for the service theyd received from Great Lakes.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld in part. She set out the
details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this
case. She also explained that it is a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer
had started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That
means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it
covered during that time. And she explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the
contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 14
February 2020 and the policy covered various risks during that time.
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19.
She thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint
was for Great Lakes to offer Mr and Mrs G a credit voucher, which would be valid for 36
months and which took into account the unused cover remaining on the policy. She asked
Mr and Mrs G if they could provide evidence of when the travel provider had cancelled their
holiday, as she felt it would be fair for Great Lakes to backdate its refund calculation to that
date. Thats because once the trip had been cancelled, she didnt think Great Lakes was
carrying the risk of Mr and Mrs G making a claim any longer. She didnt think the terms of
the voucher were overly restrictive. So she didnt think Great Lakes needed to pay Mr and
Mrs G a cash refund of their premium.
But she did think that Great Lakes hadnt treated Mr and Mrs G fairly and that it should pay 
them £50 compensation for the service itd provided. She thought the service Mr and Mrs G
received wouldve caused them distress and inconvenience.
Great Lakes agreed that if Mr and Mrs G provided evidence to show that their holiday
provider had cancelled the trip before 7 April 2020, it would backdate the premium refund to
that date. But it didnt agree to pay Mr and Mrs G any compensation. Thats because it said it
had tried to call Mr and Mrs G on the mobile number theyd provided on 7 April 2020 and it
had tried to get in touch. It said that during April 2020, it was trying to set up its operatives to
work from home during a period of very high demand. So it didnt think the delays Mr and
Mrs G had experienced were particularly unreasonable. And it said the delays hadnt
affected the refund offer itd made to Mr and Mrs G.
I issued my provisional decision on 13 May 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I thought Great Lakes current offer was fair and reasonable. I said:
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case.
The policy terms and conditions say:
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical
conditions.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no requirement under
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have to pay
any refund of a policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. In this case,
Mr and Mrs Gs cooling-off period ended on 28 February 2020. But the policy wasnt
cancelled until 7 April 2020. And even if Mr and Mrs Gs holiday was cancelled by their
provider after the change in FCO guidance, it seems the cooling-off period wouldve still
expired around two weeks beforehand. So, Im satisfied the cancellation was outside of the
14-day cooling-off period.
While I appreciate Mr and Mrs Gs holiday was cancelled for reasons outside of their control;
I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use its discretion and treat the Covid-19
pandemic as exceptional circumstances. I think this policy term most likely relates to
circumstances which are individual to the policyholder  such as a change in their own
health. This means I dont think the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Gs contract with
Great Lakes entitle them to any refund of premiums.
Ive also considered what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint
including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. In the
circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer to provide Mr and Mrs G with a creditvoucher for the unused portion of their cover is fair and reasonable. Its now agreed to
backdate the calculation to the date the tour provider cancelled the holiday, if Mr and Mrs G
provide it with evidence of that date. Our investigator has asked Mr and Mrs G to provide us
with this information, but they havent been able to do so. Therefore, in these circumstances,
Great Lakes has calculated the refund due based on the date it first received Mr and Mrs Gs
cancellation request  7 April 2020. Its open to Mr and Mrs G to obtain the relevant
information from their travel provider in response to this provisional decision and to send it to
me and to Great Lakes if their trip was cancelled before 7 April 2020.
Based on the available evidence regarding cancellation, Great Lakes wouldve been on-risk
for an 80-day period if the policy hadnt been cancelled. The voucher represents the
remaining, unused 27 days of cover, after the policy was cancelled on 7 April 2020, as Great
Lakes was no longer carrying any risk of Mr and Mrs G making a claim after that point. Ive
checked Great Lakes refund calculation and Im satisfied it was correct, based on the
information it currently has around the cancellation date.
In my view, a voucher is fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of this
case. I say that because while I appreciate travel plans are still uncertain, Great Lakes credit
voucher is valid for 36 months, meaning I think its likely Mr and Mrs G will be able to put the
voucher towards another policy in the future. So, while I appreciate they currently have no
plans to travel in the future, I dont think that the terms of the voucher are overly restrictive.
Ive also considered whether I think its fair to direct Great Lakes to pay Mr and Mrs G
compensation in these circumstances. And based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think it is.
I say that because while I appreciate it mustve been very frustrating when Mr and Mrs G
werent able to get through on the phone; I think Great Lakes did take steps to respond
promptly to Mr and Mrs Gs first email. Ive seen a copy of its call logs and I can see that it
did try to call Mr and Mrs G on the mobile number we have on file on 7 April 2020 and it also
sent a follow-up email. Its unfortunate that after Mr and Mrs G responded to that email,
Great Lakes didnt get back in touch and that it was about three weeks until they were able
to discuss their concerns with Great Lakes.
But I need to bear in mind that during this time, Great Lakes was facing unprecedented
logistical and operational challenges. There was also a high level of demand from its
customers. And I dont think I can fairly say that Mr and Mrs G suffered such material
distress and inconvenience as a result of the service they received that compensation is
appropriate in this case. This means I dont plan to make any award of compensation.
Having considered everything, while I know Mr and Mrs G will be disappointed in my
decision, Im not planning to tell Great Lakes to pay them a cash refund of their premiums or
any compensation. If Mr and Mrs G can provide evidence from their tour provider to show
their trip was cancelled before 7 April 2020, Great Lakes has offered to backdate its refund
calculation to that date. I think this is a fair outcome to this complaint.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or information they wanted me to take 
into account.
Great Lakes didnt respond by the deadline I gave.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed with my provisional findings. Ive summarised their response. They 
felt some of their previous comments hadnt been considered. They were disappointed that 
excuses were being made for the insurer, but they were being given no leeway. They 
referred to the fact that I felt Great Lakes failure to contact them was reasonable but 
disputed their attempts to contact it to cancel their policy. They felt that their request for a 
cash refund was reasonable in the circumstances, but I was relying on technicalities and the terms and conditions, rather than considering their personal situation. They didnt accept my 
interpretation of what should constitute exceptional circumstances. They referred to the fact 
that they hadnt seen my investigation regarding the call recording and asked whether Id 
listened to it. They didnt think that sufficient attempts had been made to contact them. They 
didnt think the date the holiday provider cancelled their trip was relevant, as their destination 
country closed its borders in March and so Great Lakes bore no risk after that date. They 
hadnt been able to get through to Great Lakes, despite holding for some time. They felt my 
provisional decision was very one-sided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs G, Ive decided that Great Lakes 
offer is fair and reasonable and Ill explain why.
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs G that Ive carefully considered all of their evidence and 
comments. In making both my provisional and final decisions though, Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the key issues. This means I havent specifically commented on each point 
theyve raised. Its also important I explain that we are independent and impartial of both 
parties to a complaint. My role is to consider all of the evidence and make a decision which I 
feel is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
As the investigator explained and I set out in my provisional decision, under the regulators 
rules, theres no requirement for an insurer to offer a refund of premiums after a cooling-off 
period has expired. This is also set out in the policy terms and conditions, which form the 
basis of Mr and Mrs Gs contract with Great Lakes. As Mr and Mrs Gs cooling-off period 
expired some weeks before they cancelled the policy, theyre not strictly entitled to any 
refund of premium.
But Ive also considered what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Great Lakes offer takes into account the unused portion of cover after the policy was 
cancelled, as it was no longer carrying any risk of a claim after that point. I appreciate Mr 
and Mrs G feel that Great Lakes risk of a claim ended once their destination country closed 
its borders. However, up until the point the trip was cancelled, Great Lakes was still carrying 
the risk of Mr and Mrs G making a cancellation claim under the policy. Great Lakes has 
agreed to backdate the refund calculation to the point Mr and Mrs Gs holiday provider 
cancelled their holiday, if Mr and Mrs G provide evidence of the relevant cancellation date. 
And I still think this is a fair outcome to this complaint. Its open to Mr and Mrs G to provide 
this information to Great Lakes if their provider cancelled the trip prior to 7 April 2020.
Mr and Mrs G say they tried to cancel the policy earlier than they did but couldnt get 
through. Theyve stated they were on hold for some time. Its also open to them to send 
evidence (such as a phone bill) to Great Lakes to show they tried to get in touch with it 
before 7 April 2020 to cancel their policy for it to consider.
I understand Mr and Mrs G feel strongly that their situation should be treated as exceptional 
circumstances and so they should be entitled to a cash refund. But as I explained, I consider 
that Great Lakes intended exceptional circumstances to apply to specific situations which 
are individual to a policy. I remain of the view that it wouldnt be fair to require Great Lakes to 
treat Covid-19, which was a unique and unprecedented situation, as an exceptional 
circumstance.Ive also considered what Mr and Mrs G have told us about the customer service they 
received. As Great Lakes didnt manage to speak to Mr and Mrs G, Ive relied only on the 
call records. I have no reason to doubt this is an accurate record of Great Lakes attempt to 
call Mr and Mrs G and the record clearly shows that a call was made to the number we hold 
for them. I set out above that it was unfortunate that Great Lakes didnt make further 
attempts to get in touch with Mr and Mrs G after this call and their email response and I 
appreciate it was frustrating for them. But in order for me to award compensation, I need to 
be satisfied that Great Lakes customer service caused them material distress or 
inconvenience. And taking into account all of the circumstances, I dont think I could fairly 
find that the distress they were caused was so material that it would be reasonable for me to 
award compensation.
Overall, Im satisfied that Great Lakes offer is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
Great Lakes offer is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman