DRN-1515096
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car supplied to him under a finance agreement with Oodle Financial 
Services Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr S was supplied with a used car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with Oodle.
Soon after acquiring the car, Mr S experienced issues including the car struggling to start 
from cold, a split wire on the battery, a faulty heater and a problem with the injector.
The car was returned to the dealership who attempted repairs. However, when the car was 
returned to Mr S the issues hadnt been resolved. Oodle offered Mr S three alternative 
options:
To return the car and unwind the agreement
To return the car to the dealership for further repairs
To replace the car with a suitable alternative
Mr S wasnt happy with the options offered. He didnt want to reject the car but he wanted 
the repairs carried out at a garage of his choice.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that Oodle had acted fairly in 
offering the three options.
Mr S didnt agree. He said the dealership had several attempts at repairing the car and hed 
lost faith in its abilities. He said he didnt want to reject the car and he wanted it repaired at a 
garage of his choice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute between Mr S and Oodle that the car isnt of satisfactory quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a  fault occurs within the first 6 months, theres 
a presumption that it was present at the point of supply unless the business can show 
otherwise. In these circumstances its up to the business to put things right. The business is 
allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. If the repair isnt successful the consumer can 
reject the car.
In this case, the supplying dealer has attempted repairs, but these havent been successful. I 
would usually recommend rejection in these circumstances.
Mr S has said that he doesnt want to reject the car. In response, Oodle offered three 
different options, rejection, further repair or replacement. Mr S wants the car repaired at a 
garage of his choice.
Whilst I understand Mr Ss strength of feeling, I think Oodle has acted fairly and reasonably 
in offering these three options. Theres no obligation on Mr S to accept further repairs but if 
he accepts further repairs, I dont think its reasonable to ask Oodle to let him choose a 
particular garage. Theres no evidence that the supplying dealer cant carry out the further 
repairs effectively, or that there are any particular difficulties (i.e. geographical) in Mr S 
returning the car to the supplying dealer for repairs.
I understand that since the investigator issued his view, Mr S agreed to reject the car. But 
hes unhappy that Oodle has asked him to pay for fair use of the car which is around 10,000 
miles. I dont think its unreasonable for Oodle to charge for fair use of the car and this is 
usually calculated by reference to a rate per mile. The number of miles which Mr S has 
covered is significant so (in the event that Mr S decided to reject the car) I think its fair that 
he pays for fair use.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2020.
Emma Davy
Ombudsman