DRN-3570857
The complaint
Mr S had a motor insurance policy with AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited. He 
says it didnt consider all the available evidence before finding him at fault for an accident. 
What happened
Mr S turned right onto a main road at a T-junction when a taxi driver who had stopped to turn 
into the road Mr S was leaving indicated that he should do so. Mr S says just after moving 
into the taxis lane, he heard a noise and saw another car to his left. Mr S said he wasnt 
sure where the car came from, but he assumed it was shielded from his view by the taxi and 
had undertaken it. As a cycle lane narrowed the road just ahead, he thought the other car 
would have been forced against Mr Ss car, as it couldnt continue alongside it. 
Mr S reported the accident (in which he said very minor damage was caused) for notification 
only, as he didnt intend to make a claim. But AA contacted the other driver and offered to 
deal with any damage to his car. The other driver (and later his wife) then claimed they were 
injured. AA rejected the personal injury claims but paid £527 to the other driver for the minor  
damage to his car. Mr S wasnt kept updated and didnt know the outcome of the claim until 
he got his renewal invitation in 2021. He objected to the fault claim AA had put on his record, 
which he says led to a rise in his premium. AA agreed he hadnt been kept informed and 
later paid him £100. But Mr S said AA still hadnt told him why it had decided he was at fault.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ss complaint. He didnt think AA had investigated the 
accident properly, as it had no record of the other drivers version of events and hadnt asked 
him for any dashcam footage. So he said it should make further enquiries - and if it still 
thought Mr S was at fault, it should explain to him why that was the case.  AA asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint. I issued a provisional decision as follows:
Under the policy, AA has the right to settle any claim as it sees fit. We only interfere if we 
think an insurer hasnt acted reasonably in investigating the claim or has reached an 
outcome that doesnt seem to be in line with the available evidence. 
Mr S gave AA a full account of the accident. He said he drove into the main road in front of 
the taxi, which was blocking his view of any vehicles on the other side of it. He said he knew 
the onus was on him to ensure the way was clear. He also told AA that the other driver said 
he had a dashcam - and that hed also said Mr S was at fault for the accident, because hed 
pulled out in front of his car.
Contacting the other driver and offering him its services allowed AA to control and limit the 
potential outlay on the claim. But theres no record on its file of any conversation with the 
other driver about the incident, so it seems AA relied purely on Mr Ss statement. Given what 
hed said, I think it was reasonable for AA to decide that he was at fault for the incident. He 
told AA hed entered a road where the other car had priority  and that he had limited vision. 
Mr S accepted that the onus was on him to ensure the way was clear before pulling out. 
 
Very recently, Mr S said it was possible that the other car followed him into the main road 
from the side road and then undertook his car. AA wasnt asked to consider that possibility at 
any point, as far as I can see, and in my opinion, its a remote one. I think it was reasonable 
for AA to conclude (based on what Mr S told it, on what he reported the other driver to have 
said, and the location of the accident) that the other car emerged from the far side of the taxi 
and was proceeding correctly along the main road when Mr S entered it. 
In my opinion, AA should still have asked the other driver for his version of events and 
whether there was any dashcam evidence for it to review. I can see why it may not have 
thought that was necessary, but I think it was poor service not to do so. We cant know for 
sure what would have happened had AA asked for the dashcam evidence, but I think whats 
certain is that if the other driver thought it would assist Mr Ss case, he wouldnt have 
provided it. He could have told AA the camera was faulty or wasnt recording at the time. 
And it may not have been. We know what the other driver would have said had AA asked 
him for his version of events, as hed already told Mr S he held him fully at fault for pulling 
out in front of him. 
I dont think it would be useful to ask AA to try to get the other drivers his version of events 
at this stage. I think its highly unlikely hed co-operate with AA or provide the dashcam 
footage, especially as AA rejected his and his wifes personal injury claims. And 18 months 
after the accident, I think its unlikely the footage, if any, is still available anyway.
  
In my opinion, it was reasonable for AA to record a fault claim on Mr Ss record, given the 
circumstances of the accident and his version of events. AA has accepted that its contact 
with Mr S should have been better and it has compensated him for that. Although I think it 
should have asked for the dashcam footage, I dont think it would have made a difference to 
the claims outcome had it done so. I know Mr S is unhappy that AA didnt do more, but I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold his complaint. 
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. AA said it had nothing to add, but 
(in summary) Mr S made the following main points:
The statement he gave AA was true, based on the facts as he saw them. He never 
accepted liability and he was sure the dashcam footage would prove he wasnt at 
fault. He always thought the other driver had followed him into the main road
AA decided that the other driver had made a fraudulent personal injury claim - so the 
entire claim could and should have been rejected
If it was accepted that AA had no record of a statement from the other driver, that 
showed negligence on its part, especially given the injury claim. And although the 
dashcam footage probably wasnt available so long after the incident, Mr S didnt 
agree that viewing it would have made no difference to the outcome. Finding him at 
fault without knowing all the facts wasnt in line with the principles of natural justice
AA acted in its own interests and didnt discharge its duty of care to Mr S. In his view, 
it paid a fraudster whilst penalising Mr S with higher premiums and still not telling him 
who made the decision that he was at fault. So his fault record should be changed to 
notification only  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres been no suggestion that Mr S didnt give an accurate account of the facts to AA 
(although he didnt tell it that the other car may have come out of the side street behind him). I said in my provisional decision that I didnt think it would have made a difference to the 
outcome had AA asked for the dashcam footage - because there was no way for AA to view 
it if the other driver didnt co-operate. I thought he wouldnt have done so if the footage 
helped Mr Ss case, so it would only have been provided if it didnt. 
I understand why Mr S believes AA should have asked for the other drivers account of 
events (as well as the footage). As I said in my provisional decision, I thought it was poor 
service not to have done so. But in this particular case, I dont think AA acted negligently.
 
Given the accident location and Mr Ss account (in which he said the other driver had 
claimed that Mr Ss car pulled out in front of him) I think it was reasonable for AA to decide 
that Mr S was probably at fault. I also think it was reasonable for it to conclude that the other 
driver would only have confirmed what hed told Mr S, if asked. In the circumstances Mr S 
had described, I dont think it was unreasonable for AA to conclude that there was no way to 
find the other driver fully at fault for the accident. If it couldnt do that, the best possible 
outcome would have been that he and Mr S were both held partly at fault. But Mr S would 
still have had a fault claim against him (so he would still have faced with higher premiums) 
even if there was evidence of fault on the part of both drivers  which wasnt the case.   
I dont agree with Mr S that because AA thought the personal injury claim wasnt genuine, it 
should also have said the claim for damage to the other drivers car wasnt genuine  or that 
it was entitled to reject that part of the claim because it thought the other driver had acted 
fraudulently. The two issues were dealt with separately by AA, in line with standard industry 
practice, and I think AA acted reasonably in relation to the issue. 
Finally, Mr S remains concerned that he doesnt know who made the decision that he was at 
fault, or why. But I think its clear why AA made the decision that it couldnt support Mr Ss 
position  and the decision was made by the team that deals with liability, not by one person.
I know Mr S remains dissatisfied with the way AA acted and its decisions - and that he wont 
be happy with my findings, either. Naturally, hes upset that whilst he acted honestly in 
reporting the incident, he has lost out in terms of the fault claim on his record, despite the 
other driver falsely claiming to have been injured. I can understand his frustration with that, 
but as I think AA dealt with the issues reasonably, I cant uphold his complaint.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman