DRN-4282850
The complaint
Mr T has complained Santander UK plc wont refund debit card transactions which he didnt 
make.
What happened
The morning after being out in a club Mr T noticed a text from Santander. These referred to 
transactions made the evening before. Mr T was asked whether he recognised these. This 
prompted him to check his account where he noticed five transactions he didnt recognise. 
He reported these as fraud to Santander. These were for £48, £248 and three payments of 
£72 each.
Santander confirmed these payments had been made in the same place as transactions 
Mr T wasnt disputing, around the same time period and with his genuine card and correct 
PIN. They wouldnt consider refunding these.
Mr T brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator considered the evidence Santander provided along with Mr Ts testimony. 
Mr T separately confirmed that he disputed more transactions than the original five. The 
disputed transactions totalled £599. However our investigator felt it was most likely Mr T had 
made these transactions.
Mr T disagreed. He couldnt understand how anyone could be thought to spend nearly £850 
in such a short time out. Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Ts complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but 
nothing else specific in Mr Ts case.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Santander and Mr T have told us. I can reassure Mr T that the differing amounts in 
dispute has not had any impact on the decision Im making.
Overall I believe the evidence shows Mr T authorised the disputed card transactions. I say 
this because:
The evidence from Santander shows Mr Ts genuine card and PIN were used to 
authenticate the disputed card transactions.
Mr T was in a club and admits he was buying services as well as drinks as a treat. 
His card remained in his possession throughout the evening. Mr T has explained the 
different costs that he believed he was paying.
Santander rejected a couple of transactions as they suspected fraud. Subsequent 
transactions  made up of smaller amounts  suggest these payments could have 
been made to cover transactions that had been cancelled by Santander.
I agree there was a considerable amount spent  nearly £850  in just about the two hours 
he was in the club but it seems more than likely to me that Mr T just lost track of how much 
money hed been spending.
I know Mr T has suggested his card could have been cloned but I dont believe thats what 
happened here. The audit trail data that Santander has provided confirms Mr Ts genuine 
card was used.
I dispute the idea that Santander should have intervened and blocked his card. In fact they 
rejected two larger value payments for £72 and £240.
Overall Im satisfied these transactions were authorised by Mr T. Im not going to ask 
Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ts complaint against Santander 
UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman