DRN-4031350
The complaint
Mr G complains about the advice Grove Pension Solutions Limited gave him to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. 
He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Professional representatives have helped Mr G to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, I will refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Gs.
What happened
Mr G approached Grove in 2014 to discuss his pension and to see if releasing funds from it 
could help ease his current financial position. 
Grove gathered information about Mr Gs pension entitlement under his former employers 
DB scheme which he was a deferred member of. It obtained a transfer value analysis report. 
Grove completed a fact-find with Mr G and an assessment of his risk appetite, which it said 
was medium. Amongst other things it noted that Mr G was aged 55, single and had no 
dependents. He was employed in the private sector but hoped to find work in the public 
sector as he had previously, which was where hed joined the DB scheme. Mr G intended to 
retire at age 66 and believed he would need a minimum income of £800 a month in 
retirement. He owned his own home, valued at £220,000 secured with an interest only 
mortgage of £71,000. He had credit card debts of £3,700 and a loan of £4,300. He was 
paying those debts back at a cost of £240 a month. He had regular outgoings of £1,378 a 
month which exceeded his income of £1,300 a month.
Mr Gs DB scheme had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £39,410. At the 
schemes normal retirement age of 65 it would pay him either:
a pension of £3,322 and a lump sum of £5,173, or
a reduced pension of £2,412 and a lump sum of £16,086
Grove calculated the growth rates required to match these benefits from an alternative 
pension (the critical yields) were 12.82% and 11.29% respectively.
In March 2014 Grove sent Mr G its suitability report setting out its analysis and 
recommendations. Amongst other things it said Mr Gs principal objective was to raise tax 
free cash (TFC) to allow him to pay off his unsecured debts which would enable him to start 
repaying the capital on his mortgage. It said Mr G had changed job, which had reduced his 
income, and since then his expenses had been greater than his income causing debts to 
build up. 
Grove said the critical yields were high and not achievable if Mr G transferred his DB 
scheme funds to a personal pension. It added that he should be in no doubt that a transfer 
didnt represent good value and his overall pension provision would suffer as a result. It said 
that transferring was a very expensive way of raising funds and that if Mr G lived to age 84 
he would have lost around £19,500. 
Grove said it had discussed the risks and potential losses with Mr G but he was prepared to 
accept those. He said he had a back-up plan in that, if he found a job in the public sector 
again, he could contribute to the relevant pension scheme for the next ten years.
Grove recommended that Mr G should transfer his DB scheme funds to a named personal 
pension. Its fee for its advice and arranging a transfer was £2,955. It would also charge him 
1% of the fund value for ongoing financial advice. The personal pension provider would 
charge him 0.5% of the fund value for administering the pension each year. 
Mr G accepted Groves advice and it arranged the transfer. By the time the transfer was 
completed Mr Gs CETV had increased to around £41,600 from which he received TFC of 
around £10,400.
In 2022 Mr G complained to Grove about the suitability of the transfer advice. Amongst other 
things he said Grove:
Hadn't told him about the advantages and disadvantages of transferring from a DB 
scheme.
Didnt highlight that his personal pension would need to perform particularly well to 
match the scheme benefits.
Didnt provide adequate warning of the risks involved with a transfer.
Didnt explore other options to meet Mr Gs objectives.
Gave the impression that Mr G could be better off by transferring.
Shouldnt have recommended transferring to allow Mr G to access TFC.
Didnt act in line with the regulators guidance.
Didnt identify a sufficient basis upon which to recommend a transfer.
Didnt consider Mr Gs capacity for loss.
Grove didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. It said its advice was correct and Mr G was fully 
aware of the risks involved in transferring.
Mr G brought his complaint to our Service. Grove objected to us looking at it. It said Mr G 
had said in his complaint letter that hed told Grove during its fact-find that one of his 
objectives was the better performance of his pension. Grove said that, since transferring, 
his pension was worth less than the original CETV amount. And, in some years particularly 
in 2016, his pension had suffered losses. So, Mr G should have known, more than three 
years before he complained, that he was not getting better performance from his pension 
and as such he was out of time to complain.
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint. He said he didn't think Mr G had 
brought his complaint too late and went on to consider its merits. Having done so he 
recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He said he didnt think Groves advice 
was suitable for Mr G. The Investigator said Grove should pay compensation for any losses 
Mr G suffered because of its unsuitable advice.
Grove didnt agree with our Investigators assessment. It continued to argue that the 
complaint was out of time. It also disagreed that its advice was unsuitable. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint and in responding to it both Mr G and Grove have made a number 
of detailed points. I've considered everything on file. But in this decision I dont intend to 
address each and every issue raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key 
matters at the heart of Mr Gs complaint and the reasons for my decision.
Is this a complaint we have the authority to look at?
We dont have a free hand to consider each and every complaint we receive. Our rules as 
set out in the FCA Handbook, are commonly referred to as DISP. DISP 2.8.2R says that 
where a business doesnt consent (as Grove hasnt here), I cant consider a complaint made 
more than six years after the events complained of, or if later, more than three years after 
the complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of their cause for 
complaint.
The events Mr G complains about, the advice to transfer his DB pension funds, took place in 
2014. Mr G didnt complain until 2022. That is clearly outside of the six years allowed to 
bring a complaint to this Service. And Grove has argued that Mr G should have been aware 
of his grounds for complaint sooner. So, I have to consider whether he brought his complaint 
within three years of when he ought reasonably to have been aware he had cause for 
complaint.
Grove has focused on a comment in Mr Gs complaint where he said that one of his 
objectives when seeking advice was the better performance of his pension. Grove said 
that, after accepting its advice, paying fees and taking TFC Mr Gs pension fund instantly 
reduced in value by around £14,000. Then, at other times, the personal pension provider has 
produced statements which showed that his pension fund had suffered losses. And, by 
2018, the fund value was still less than his original CETV amount. So, Grove argues that 
Mr G should have been aware more than three years before he complained that his pension 
had not had better performance and as such, Grove believes Mr G brought his complaint 
out of time.
I'm not persuaded by Groves arguments. First, Mr G had numerous points of complaint. But 
in essence the thrust of his complaint is that Grove shouldnt have advised him to transfer 
out of his DB scheme. Hes raised some individual points, as detailed above, in support of 
that complaint. But the issue of better performance aside, which I deal with below, there's no 
evidence that Mr G ought reasonably to have known that Groves advice wasnt suitable for 
him until he contacted his professional representatives. It was them who told him he might 
have been misadvised. And it was only then that he learned he had cause for complaint. He 
then complained promptly and within the three year window for doing so.
Grove has focused on one issue, about Mr Gs wish for better performance of his pension. 
But aside from Mr G's complaint theres no evidence he told it during the advice process that 
his objective was for the transferred pension to perform better than his DB scheme. Indeed, 
prior to completing the fact-find Grove had sent Mr G some information about transferring 
from a DB scheme and the risks and disadvantages involved with it. Grove discussed these 
risks with Mr G and asked him for his thoughts. Mr G told Grove he was aware his pension 
would be a lot lower if he transferred. So, I don't think its the case that, when he 
approached Grove for advice, Mr Gs key objective was better performance. Therefore, I 
dont think he had reason to complain about that sooner as it hadnt ever been a goal of his 
and as such wasnt something he expected to happen.
Its not clear why Mr G referred to telling Grove he wanted his pension to perform better by 
transferring when theres no evidence of this at the time. And it's notable that Mr G raised his complaint around eight years after Grove had given its advice. So its possible that his 
memory has faded and been coloured by the passing of time. But, in any event, as Ive said 
above, that wasnt the focus of Mr Gs complaint; instead the focus was that the advice to 
transfer out of his DB scheme was unsuitable for him. And as theres no evidence he ought 
reasonably to have been aware of that more than three years before he complained, I'm 
satisfied he made his complaint in time. That means this is a complaint we have the authority 
to consider. So, I've gone on to consider the merits of Mr Gs complaint below.
Was Groves advice suitable for Mr G? 
While looking at the merits of Mr Gs complaint Ive taken into account relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time. This includes the Principles for 
Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And where the 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Grove's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Grove should 
have only recommended a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that it was in Mr Gs best 
interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best 
interests. But, thats not to say I agree with all of Mr Gs points of complaint.
Contrary to Mr Gs complaint, Grove did go to some lengths to spell out some of the risks 
inherent with a transfer of this nature. In particular it made it clear that he was likely to be 
worse off in retirement by transferring. But identifying risks and bringing disadvantages of a 
course of action to a consumers attention, is not the same as clearly explaining why 
transferring was not in Mr Gs best interests.
Groves suitability report is clear that Mr G would be worse off in retirement by transferring 
the DB funds to a personal pension. Grove noted the critical yields were not achievable and 
it said that Mr G would likely be around £19,500 worse off by transferring. And Mr G had told 
Grove he understood that to be the case. As all parties are agreed that Mr G was likely to be 
worse off in retirement by transferring, I don't intend to rehearse the reasons for that. Groves said the transfer was suitable for Mr G because of the difficult financial position he 
was in. That is his regular outgoings were greater than his income and this had caused him 
to run up debts. And transferring would allow him to pay off those debts and so have some 
disposable income each month.
At the time Grove produced its suitability report Mr Gs CETV stood at £39,410 from which 
he could have taken TFC of £9,853. That sum would allow Mr G to clear his unsecured 
debts which in turn would free up around £240 a month that he was currently paying to 
service those debts. So, I can understand why transferring his funds to release TFC and 
remove that debt burden was an attractive prospect for Mr G. But that doesn't mean that 
giving up his safeguarded pension benefits in order to achieve that was in his best interests. 
There were other ways he could have removed or reduced his debt burden.
Before speaking with Mr G Grove sent him some information which included other ways to 
manage his debts, those included:
Making further borrowing from a mortgage provider.
Moving credit card balances to a lower interest rate, or a 0% deal.
Consolidating debts into a single loan.
Grove did raise the possibility of consolidating Mr Gs unsecured debts into a single loan in 
its suitability report. Mr G dismissed this as he didnt want to take on further borrowing. But 
theres no evidence on file at the time, that Grove explored the other options with him. When 
completing the fact-find Mr G wasnt certain what his credit card repayment interest rate was 
but it seems unlikely it was a favourable rate of 0%, as I think thats something he would 
have been aware of. In fact Mr G commented that  across both his loan and the credit card 
 he estimated he was paying interest of around £100 a month. And if that was accurate 
then around 40% of his total monthly debt payments was interest. So, its likely that his credit 
card payments attracted relatively high interest. In those circumstances he could have 
benefited from a switch to a 0% balance transfer credit card. But theres no evidence Grove 
explored this other than sending Mr G some information. I think it should have discussed it 
with Mr G too and documented that discussion. 
Similarly Mr G could have considered remortgaging his home and consolidating his debts 
that way. And, given that mortgage repayments are typically at much lower levels than 
unsecured debts like loans and credit cards, this is likely to have made his payments far 
more affordable. In its response to our Investigators assessment Groves suggested that 
this was unlikely to have been an option for Mr G. It told us Mr G would have struggled to 
find a lender willing to offer him a mortgage. It said it confirmed this with a mortgage broker 
at the time. But, its provided no evidence on file of advice from a mortgage broker and 
theres nothing within its suitability report or fact-find to show it considered this possibility. 
And given the relatively low loan to value ratio (Mr G would have only needed to borrow 
around 32% of his homes value) and the fact he was in full time employment, it's not clear 
why Mr G couldnt have swapped to a repayment mortgage at that time.
That said, a repayment mortgage would still have involved Mr G making considerable 
repayments of a debt, which was clearly something he didnt want to do at that time. But it's 
notable that Grove had recorded that Mr G was considering downsizing in the future. And 
once hed done so, and was mortgage and debt free, he should be able to live on a fairly 
modest income once hed retired. In other words, Mr G was plainly aware that by downsizing 
he could clear his mortgage and other debts and would reduce his income needs while doing 
so. In fact, this is something that Mr G has since done. So, given that Mr G was in a situation 
where he was overspending each month, and accruing debts as a result, Grove would have 
been better placed to have a frank discussion with Mr G about the advantages of downsizing sooner. That way he could have cleared his debts, had a reduced expenditure and still 
retained all of the benefits from his DB pension scheme. But it doesn't appear that Grove put 
that to Mr G.
I'm aware that Grove isn't a credit or mortgage broker, nor is its role to give debt 
management advice. But the starting point for consideration of a DB transfer is that it will be 
unsuitable. So, in order to act in a clients best interests, it needs to consider the alternatives 
available to transferring out of a DB scheme. And, if Grove wasnt in a position to provide the 
expert advice itself it should have referred or encouraged Mr G to seek that advice before 
recommending a transfer from his scheme. 
Another option for Mr G would have been to take his pension benefits from his DB scheme 
early. Grove's said that the scheme wouldn't allow early retirement. But it hasn't provided 
any evidence, beyond its comments, to support that statement. Mr G was already 55 and, as 
far as I'm aware, his scheme would have allowed early retirement at that age. Both Mr Gs 
former employer and the DB scheme itself provide information on websites which show that 
early retirement from the scheme would have been possible at age 55, although at reduced 
rates. 
From the information available online it appears that Mr G could have taken his scheme 
benefits straightaway and received a TFC lump sum, which would have been reduced by 
21.1% and a yearly pension reduced by 37.7%. That would have allowed Mr G to 
comfortably pay off his unsecured debt and give him an extra income. That income would 
have increased each year in line with inflation and would have continued to be payable until 
Mr Gs death. But theres little evidence that Grove explored this possibility with him. Instead, 
on Groves recommendation, Mr G gave up the possibility of a guaranteed income for life in 
order to pay off debts. I don't think that was in his best interests. 
Summary
I dont doubt that the option of receiving a TFC lump sum that would allow Mr G to clear his 
debts would have been very attractive to him at the time. He was clearly overspending each 
month and had no savings to cover an emergency situation or to pay for any ad hoc 
expenses or for lifestyle choices like holidays. But Grove wasnt there to just transact what 
Mr G might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr G 
needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice Grove gave to Mr G was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, he was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr G shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
DB scheme, giving up the guarantees that came with that, in order to repay debts when 
there were other options available to him.
So, I think Grove should have advised Mr G to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr G would've gone ahead anyway, against Grove's 
advice. Grove argues that this is the case. It said that in its experience consumers with a 
pressing need for cash, like Mr G, will wish to release money from their pensions even when 
its recommendation is not to transfer. I accept that this is Groves experience. But, Groves 
advice to Mr G was that he should transfer out of his DB scheme. In other words Groves 
expert recommendation was that hed be in a better position by doing that than staying in his 
DB scheme. But, as I've said above, Grove didnt present all of the alternative options to 
Mr G. And I think that, if it had been clearer about those, Mr G would not have chosen to 
give up his guaranteed benefits for a short term gain. Mr G was an inexperienced investor and other than his state pension, and the hope that he 
might again pay into another pension scheme at some unidentified point in the future, he had 
no other pension provision. So, if Grove had provided him with clear advice against 
transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he 
would have accepted that advice and remained in the scheme.
In light of the above, I think Grove should compensate Mr G for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Grove to put Mr G, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr G would have most 
likely remained in the DB scheme if Grove had given suitable advice. 
Grove must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mr G has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Gs acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Grove should:
always calculate and offer Mr G redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr G before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr G receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr G accepts Groves offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr G for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Gs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr G as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Grove may make a notional deduction to any cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Gs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Grove Pension 
Solutions Limited to pay Mr G the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Grove Pension Solutions Limited pays Mr G the balance.
If Mr G accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Grove Pension 
Solutions Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr G can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr G may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman