DRN-3924857
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy how Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) handled his request 
for help to recover money following his cancellation of a trip abroad. 
Mr P has been represented during his complaint. But for ease of reading, I will refer to Mr P 
only within this decision.
What happened
Mr P used his Halifax credit card to pay for a golf trip abroad for him and his friends. He paid 
the golf agent directly, who Ill refer to as G. There were 24 people travelling, and the trip 
was scheduled for October 2020.
However, shortly before the trip was due to take place Mr P and seven of his friends decided 
they didnt want to travel. Mr P said this was because of the government advice against 
non-essential travel and the quarantine requirements upon their return to the UK. The 
remaining 16 passengers continued with the trip.
Mr P got in contact with G to explain that eight of the travelling party wouldnt be attending. G 
offered Mr P a credit note for the eight people that would be missing the trip, totalling £7,832. 
The credit note was valid for two years, but in January 2021 Mr P asked G for a cash refund 
as the eight travellers werent going to be able to make use of the credit note. G confirmed 
any refund could take up to eight weeks because of the COVID-19 pandemic and the impact 
this had had on their business. 
As well as speaking to G, Mr P also asked Halifax for help to recover the money. Halifax 
looked into things but said they couldnt help. They said that G hadnt breached their terms 
and conditions, so Mr P had no grounds for a chargeback or Section 75 (S75) claim. 
Unhappy with this, Mr P raised a complaint to Halifax. They responded in March 2021 and 
reiterated what Mr P had been told when he initially asked for help. They said that the 
chargeback scheme rules didnt allow for a claim to be raised as the service was still 
available. They said a S75 claim couldnt be considered as G hadnt breached their terms 
and conditions or misrepresented the contract. Halifax said they couldnt help Mr P any 
further. 
Mr P brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She said that the 
chargeback scheme rules didnt give rise to a valid claim in the circumstances Mr P had 
mentioned. She said she understood Mr P and his fellow travellers concerns, but the service 
was still available and had been utilised by some of the booking party, so she didnt feel that 
the terms and conditions of the booking had been breached. She said that she didnt think 
there was a claim under S75 for this reason. 
Mr P didnt agree with our investigator. He said he had an email from G explaining that a 
refund would be given, so there had been a clear breach of contract. 
As Mr P didnt agree, it was passed to me to decide. I issued my provisional decision on 
13 January 2023. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
There are different ways that a bank can assist customers who have had issues with goods 
or services not being provided. In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from 
the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment settlement 
disputes are resolved between cardholders and suppliers/merchants. They are dealt with 
under the relevant card scheme rules and in this case thats Mastercard. In certain 
circumstances the process provides a way for Halifax to ask for a payment Mr P made to be 
refunded. 
There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one. 
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists 
and there is a reasonable chance of success. 
Alternatively, or in addition, a bank can go on to consider whether there has been a breach 
of contract (or misrepresentation) under S75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. S75 says 
that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has an equal right to 
claim against the credit provider if theres either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by 
the supplier of goods or services. 
In Mr Ps case, Halifax didnt raise a chargeback for him. They said that the service had 
been available so there were no chargeback rights. They also said that Gs terms and 
conditions confirmed that a cancellation made between 0 to 64 days before departure would 
result in the full holiday cost to be paid, so Mr P wasnt entitled to a refund.
Our investigator has given a detailed explanation as to why she believes Halifax have acted 
fairly in not raising a chargeback. I dont think I can add anything to that explanation to help 
Mr P here. There isnt any dispute that the service was still available, as several of the 
original travellers went ahead with the trip. And the cancellation terms confirm that the full 
cost of the holiday is due if any of the travellers cancel between 0 and 64 days of departure. 
I understand Mr Ps reasons for not travelling, but as explained in the Mastercard 
chargeback guidance issued in May 2020 that our investigator referenced, that doesnt give 
rise to a valid chargeback claim either. So, Im satisfied Halifax acted fairly by not raising a 
chargeback claim in this case. 
Mr P has said that he believes he has a valid claim under S75 for a breach of contract and 
has highlighted the term in the contract that he feels has been breached. Im not persuaded 
that the term Mr P has relied upon has been breached. In this case I think it would help if I 
broke down the relevant wording and why Im not persuaded theres been a breach here. 
The contract says:
Covid 19 effected bookings
If your holiday booking with us has been disrupted or cancelled due to Covid 19 or 
advice from the FCO, we are offering customers the ability to amend their booking to 
a later date in the year, waiving any amendment fees.
Im satisfied that the holiday booking was disrupted by the advice from the FCO. But Im also 
satisfied G have adhered to this part of the term. I havent seen anything that suggests they 
wouldnt have given Mr P the chance to amend the booking to a later date in the year free of 
charge.For customers who have had holidays cancelled due to the global Coronavirus 
outbreak, we are issuing an industry protected Refund Credit Note (RCN). Any RCN 
will be valid until the expiry date stated on it. if you do not use the RCN by its expiry 
date, you can obtain a cash refund for any unused part. 
In this case it was Mr P that cancelled part (though not all) of the holiday booking. But in any 
event, G have issued the RCN as Mr P might have expected them to do.
For customers that are not in a position to amend their booking or accept an RCN to 
apply towards a future holiday, a cash refund is available. Due to the volume of 
cancellations and the time-consuming process of contacting suppliers to obtain 
refunds, it is taking longer than we would like to process and action cash refunds. 
It is this that Mr P feels has been breached as it says that a cash refund is available. But the 
wording specifically provides for a cash refund only where Mr P couldnt amend the booking 
or accept the RCN. And here, Mr P accepted the RCN when he spoke to G to let them know 
about the non-travellers. It was only a couple of months later that he changed his mind and 
asked for a cash refund. The term doesnt oblige G to give him a cash refund in those 
circumstances. Rather, it makes clear that a cash refund is available only for those that 
arent in a position to accept one of the other options  and Mr P did accept one of those 
options when he cancelled his trip. Because of that, I dont agree that this part of the term 
has been breached.
It follows that a S75 claim based on G having breached this part of the contract would not be 
successful. Im satisfied Halifax have considered that fairly based on the evidence and 
information Ive been provided with.
Mr P has provided emails that he exchanged with G a couple of months after he had 
accepted the RCN, and he says those emails confirm he is entitled to a refund. I dont 
necessarily agree with that point  the response he received from G explained that refunds 
are taking longer because of the impact the pandemic had had on their business. But it is 
debatable whether those emails confirm that Mr P was entitled to one, or explicitly agree to 
grant him a cash refund. 
I dont consider it necessary for me to reach a finding on this point, however. I remind Mr P 
that Im considering Halifaxs liability here. And under S75 Halifax is liable only where the 
transaction is financed by its credit agreement. While its not in dispute that the original 
transaction (that is, the holiday booking) between Mr P and G was so financed, the emails 
werent part of those arrangements. They represent a separate transaction after the event, 
under which Mr P sought (outside of the original agreement) to negotiate a cash refund 
rather than the RCN hed already received in line with that agreement. As there hadnt been 
any payment made by Mr P on his credit card in relation to this later transaction, even if the 
emails did amount to an agreement between Mr P and G, I dont think they give rise to a S75 
claim against Halifax. 
Mr P may well have reason to continue to contact G to find out if hes entitled to a refund and 
why one hasnt been processed for him. Thats a decision for him to make. But Im not 
planning on asking Halifax to do anything more for him. I know that will come as a 
disappointment to him, but I havent seen any evidence to show they have liability here to 
reimburse Mr P.
Halifax didnt respond to the provisional decision. Mr P did and didnt agree with it. He said 
he couldnt understand why there wasnt a breach of contract when the contract confirmed a 
cash refund would be given if the RCN wasnt used by its expiry date. He said he had 
contacted G to try and use the RCN, but they had stopped responding to him. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ps strength of feeling here. But the comments he has made in response to 
my provisional decision arent relevant to the matter I have been asked to decide on. The 
terms and conditions do state that any unused part of the RCN issued to Mr P when he 
cancelled the trip could be exchanged for a cash refund once the expiry date of the RCN had 
passed. Mr P is correct when he states that in his response to me. 
However, at the time he made his complaint to Halifax and subsequently to our service, the 
RCN was still in force and valid. And as I have explained in some detail in my provisional 
decision, G werent obliged to give Mr P a cash refund at the time he made his complaint to 
Halifax. 
It isnt for me to comment on G and how theyve handled any further dealings with Mr P. My 
decision is made based on Halifaxs liability and the terms and conditions in place when 
Mr P raised his complaint. And I havent seen anything to suggest I should depart from the 
findings in my provisional decision. I wont be asking Halifax to do anything more here. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman