DRN-3186795
The complaint
Mr D, a sole trader, complains that Santander UK PLC unfairly declined his application for a 
Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mr D holds a personal current account with Santander, which he also uses for his business.
 
In September 2020, Mr D applied to Santander for a Bounce Back Loan  but his application 
was declined. In summary, the bank said it hadnt been able to verify that Mr D was using his 
personal account as his main business account or that his declared turnover was accurate.  
Santander said credits to Mr Ds personal account didnt equate to the turnover hed stated 
in his Bounce Back Loan application. The bank also said that Mr Ds tax return which, as a 
sole trader, he needed to provide as part of his application, didnt support the turnover hed 
declared. So, overall, the lack of supporting evidence for Mr Ds application didnt permit the 
bank to conclude that he met the criteria for a Bounce Back Loan.
 
Mr D was unhappy with Santanders decision, so he complained. In response, the bank 
reiterated the basis for its decision to decline his application: that it hadnt been able to verify 
Mr Ds declared turnover. 
In November 2020, Mr D approached our service for an independent review of his complaint. 
Mr D felt there were flaws within Santanders Bounce Back Loan application process, such 
as the bank not asking for more specific information around his turnover. So, because the 
banks decision had been reached by following what was  in his view  a flawed process, 
he thought his Bounce Back Loan application hadnt been fairly assessed.
Our investigator looked at what had happened, but she didnt think Santander had treated 
Mr D unfairly. She said, in summary, that the bank had assessed Mr Ds application in-line 
with its standard criteria  as it was entitled to under the Scheme rules  and that it had 
made a reasonable decision to decline the application based on the available information. 
Mr D disagreed, and he asked for an ombudsmans decision. He understood that the 
decision to lend lay, ultimately, with the bank. But the crux of his complaint was the flaws 
which he felt were within Santanders application process. Mr D provided additional 
information about his business and the payments he received, which our investigator passed 
to the bank to see if it would reconsider its decision. But Santander didnt change its mind, 
and it maintained that it wouldnt accept Mr Ds Bounce Back Loan application.
 
The investigator didnt think Santanders decision was unreasonable because Mr D still 
hadnt been able to fulfil the eligibility criteria. So, as no agreement has been reached, 
Mr Ds complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, Id like to emphasise that our service is not the regulator  thats the
Financial Conduct Authority. Nor do we act as the enforcer for the regulator. Instead, our role 
is to provide an informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. 
In short, that means we look at the circumstances of individual complaints and  on a case 
by case basis  make findings about whether a financial business has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably toward their customer in any way. 
Where we find they have, well instruct a financial business to put things right. But its 
important to stress that our awards are not designed to punish a business, or to make it 
change the way it acts. That is the role of the regulator.
Mr D has raised several issues when bringing his complaint to this service, and I know hed 
like a point-by-point response. But while Ive considered and read everything that hes said 
and sent to us, I wont address each and every point hes raised. I dont mean any 
discourtesy by this. Rather, I only intend to act in line with this services role as an informal 
body. So, Ill focus on the crux of Mr Ds complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable 
here.
Under the way the Bounce Back Loan Scheme operated, Santander had a level of discretion 
over how it accepted applications  including from its existing customers. Santander says it 
only accepted applications from existing personal customers using their personal account for 
business purposes. Thats so it could use the account information to verify that the applicant 
satisfied the various eligibility requirements under the Scheme rules, and I think that was 
reasonable. 
During the Bounce Back Loan application process, applicants had to self-declare that they 
met the eligibility criteria. Santander has explained that its online application process was 
largely automated and while that isnt, perhaps, how the bank wouldve operated in different 
circumstances  it wasnt unusual for the Scheme. Ultimately, lenders were required to 
process applications swiftly to give businesses access to urgent financial support. So, I can 
understand why Santander thought that some level of automation was practical  particularly 
considering the significant demand it faced in dealing with such a high volume of 
applications. 
That said, checks still needed to be made to ensure borrowers met the eligibility 
requirements. And there was some discretion for lenders to have the final say as to whether 
to approve the loan. Mr Ds application was declined because Santander couldnt verify his 
turnover or that he was using the account as his main business account, so the bank said 
his application hadnt passed the checks it had carried out.  
I accept that Mr D doesnt agree with how Santander approached verifying his eligibility. But 
having reviewed the reasons for the banks decision, I think it was reasonable. From what 
Ive seen, the credits to Mr Ds account didnt match the turnover that hed declared in his 
application.
While I recognise that Mr D sees the process as flawed, and he thinks the bank shouldve 
requested more specific information upfront, that doesnt render the banks decision to 
decline his application unfair. Santander assessed his application in line with its standard 
criteria  as it was entitled to. And I dont think it did anything wrong in not requesting further 
information from Mr D at the time. Santander was entitled to set its own process and, as Ive 
mentioned above, its important to remember that the aim of the Scheme was to provide finance to businesses quickly. So, the application process was legitimately subject to less 
lender involvement.
After hed brought his complaint to our service, Mr D explained more about how his business 
operates and provided more information around his turnover. He said that many of his 
business transactions are run through a third-party payment transfer system first, before 
crediting his Santander account. And hes said thats not something hes able to have any 
real control over, given the nature of his work. 
Our investigator relayed this to the bank, alongside some further detail Mr D had provided 
showing credits to his personal account. But Santander said it didnt accept business 
transactions credited to an account via a third-party. Thats because its unable to properly 
verify them and  while I understand that Mr D has little option but to conduct some of his 
business transactions in this way  on the whole, I dont think that was unreasonable. 
I know Mr D feels very strongly about what happened. So, what Ive set out here will likely 
disappoint him. But, in all the circumstances, I dont find that Santander treated him unfairly. 
Instead, I think it assessed Mr Ds application as it would any other customer and reasonably 
decided to decline it. So, I dont require Santander to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman