DRN-3302802
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
What happened
In or around November 2018, Mr and Mrs I were contacted by a representative of a 
company Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be 
installed at their home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs I decided to 
purchase the system and finance it through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In March 2020, Mr and Mrs I made a claim under section 75 of the Act to Shawbrook. They 
said that P had made a number of representations about the system that had turned out not 
to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs I to enter into 
the contract with P. They have made the following points:
The system would cost £49.30 per month, rising to £72.00 per month if a battery was 
included.
All electricity was free during daylight hours.
Their gas bill would be reduced by 25% with an attachment to their boiler.
Savings would amount to £658.78 annually.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr and Mrs I or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be 
upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs I and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs I didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons;
they were misled and given incorrect information; and
the quote documentation was signed when Mrs I was on her own and she wasnt 
shown the full information; and
money received from the system means they are out of pocket.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr and Mrs I paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs I could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs I and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both Mr and Mrs I and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Bespoke Quote. Ive 
considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr and Mrs Is recollection of the sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
The loan agreement clearly sets out that the cash price of the goods.
Im satisfied that the quote, provided to Mr and Mrs I, makes it clear that the cost of the 
system is £8,839. This is supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the cash 
price of the system was £8,839. The total amount of credit is £8,739 and goes on to show 
that the total amount payable would be £12,761.20.
And as the quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due, 
as set out in the table below, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit 
agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £8,839, it would cost Mr 
and Mrs I more than this as they had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan.FIT payments
Mr and Mrs I have alleged that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments and electricity savings. Ive considered the 
quote that was provided by P and considered whether this supports what Mr and Mrs I have 
said.
Pages 17 and 18 of the quote includes the estimated income Mr and Mrs I could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments for each year over 20 years. The FIT scheme only provides payments for a 20-
year period.
I think that this table is clear that Mr and Mrs I could expect to receive a total FIT income in 
year one of £146.15 (generation £87.06 + export £59.09).
The quote also looks at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs I could expect from the system. 
The expected year one electricity savings is £263.39 and, when taking into account the 
optional extras chosen by Mr and Mrs I, the combined income and savings in year one is 
shown as £569.26.
Page 22 of the quote has three tables showing repayments over 60 months, 120 months and 
180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months as this is the length of the loan that Mr 
and Mrs I entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as repayable in 120 
monthly payments of £104.19. For each year of the 10-year loan it shows the expected 
grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and 
subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £104.19, to give an average difference between the 
monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs I could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments and any electricity savings, as well as their expected 
contractual monthly loan repayments. While I accept that the table doesnt simply compare 
the FIT income to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall 
income they could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings, would 
not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. 
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs I that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mr and Mrs I was told by P that the system would be self-funding 
over a duration of time. 
Pages 17 and 18 of the quote has a table detailing the performance over 25 years. The table 
is copied and referred to above. This shows that by year 15 the overall (grand total) benefits 
that Mr and Mrs I could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable 
under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs I that the system would pay for 
itself by year 15, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, 
and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into the contract, and they 
subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Mr and Mrs I said that theyre system was initially underperforming once all the agreed 
panels had been installed at their home. I understand this was referred to P and steps were 
taken to resolve any underperformance. In their complaint to Shawbrook, Mr and Mrs I 
confirmed that the generation issue was resolved towards the end of January 2019.
I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2017 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
this may explain why Mr and Mrs I may not have been receiving the financial returns they 
may have been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower 
than the modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the 
system has been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2005 to 2017. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs I 
couldve expected to receive from the system. So, while I can appreciate that the returns 
may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was 
due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs I entered into the 
contract.
Mr and Mrs I have suggested that the quotation document didnt form a central part of the 
sales process with P, when they agreed to enter into the contract for the system. I have 
carefully considered the points made by them along with those made by Shawbrook on 
behalf of P. Im satisfied that the quote formed a central part of the sales process. It wouldve 
been discussed with Mr and Mrs I, which the original complaint supports. So, Ive not been 
persuaded that the salesperson wouldve said something that would then have been 
contradicted by the quote. The quote was signed by both Mr and Mrs I and, I understand, a 
copy was sent to them.
Mr and Mrs I have also suggested that the savings from the additional extras chosen by 
them werent accurate (e.g. Savings on their gas bill). Ive considered information and 
reports provided by Trading Standards which are specific to the methodology and 
assumptions used in Ps presentations and quote. From what Ive seen, I believe Ps 
assumptions and potential savings comply with those suggested by Trading Standards, at 
the time. So, I can find no reason to believe the assumptions used in Ps quote were 
unreasonable.
In their response to Mr and Mrs Is complaint, Shawbrook acknowledged delays. By way of 
an apology, theyve offered a payment of £200 to reflect this. This sounds fair to me and I 
would urge Mr and Mrs I to let Shawbrook know, should they wish to accept this.Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs I 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman