DRN-2561236
The complaint
Mrs S complains Barclays Bank UK Plc will not refund some disputed transactions from her 
account.  She is assisted in her complaint by her son  Mr S  but for ease, I will refer to all 
submissions as if made by Mrs S.
What happened
Towards the latter part of 2018 Mrs S says she was hospitalised for a number of months.  
She says for at least one month, she was in a coma.  Having been discharged from hospital, 
she went to live with her sister who was meant to care for her.  But Mrs S says she was 
never really cared for properly and a few months later she moved back into her own 
property.  
In June 2019, Mrs S noticed some transactions on her account which she said she had not 
made.  She thinks her sister used her card and PIN to make them.  One of the transactions 
was made in a shop, five were ATM withdrawals and two were transfers made to her two 
sons using the assisted device machine (ASD) in branch.  One of the sons is representing 
her in this complaint. All transactions had taken place between 15th December 2018 and 3rd 
January 2019.  They totalled just over £5000.
When Mrs S complained to Barclays, it did not uphold her complaint.  It said it thought the 
transactions had been authorised by Mrs S  so she came to this service.
Mrs S told us she was medicated during this time and never really went out of the house.  
She says her memory is somewhat poor because of the medication.  In summary, she told 
us the following:
- her sister had taken her bag including her belongings when she was admitted to 
hospital
- her card was in her bag along with her PIN written down on a piece of paper
- she thinks her sister made the disputed transactions
- she thinks her sister showed Barclays a letter and on the basis of that letter, she was 
allowed access to Mrs Ss account
- she thinks Barclays allowed her sister to change her PIN
- she remembers her sister trying to make her sign a document, but she doesnt know 
what this was
- whilst she accepted two of the payments had gone to her sons, the son representing 
her in the complaint had spent the money and she wasnt willing to ask the other son 
for the money back.
When our investigator looked into matters, his investigation uncovered the following of 
relevance:
- in November 2018, someone purporting to be Mrs Ss sister had called Barclays to 
request a new card and PIN telling Barclays that Mrs S needed this for food 
purchases.  Barclays was unable to identify Mrs S during the course of that call so no 
new card was ordered
- a new Pin had been ordered in branch on 3rd December 2018 and a new card had 
been order in branch on 10th December 2018.  The reason given for the new card 
being ordered was that the previous one had been lost. Both had been sent to Mrs 
Ss home address and both new card and PIN were used to make the disputed 
transactions
- a further card was ordered as a replacement on 6th February 2019
- the key to Mrs Ss flat was in her bag, with her at her sisters home
- Mrs S said she had never given the card and PIN to anyone else
- Barclays had never allowed a third-party access to Mrs Ss account by virtue of a 
letter
- entry to Mrs Ss home address would not have been allowed to anyone who wasnt 
Mrs S
- Mrs S discovered the disputed transactions in June 2019 but did not raise them with 
Barclays until December 2019.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint.  He said he thought these transactions had 
been authorised by Mrs S.  He also explained the concept of apparent authority to Mrs S.
But Mrs S did not accept his view.  The matter was then passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mrs S has had to pursue this complaint  and over such a lengthy period.  She 
clearly has not been in great health.  Unfortunately, I wont be upholding this decision, but I 
hope my explanation helps Mrs S to understand why and I hope this decision now brings an 
end to matters for her.
In coming to my decision, I have taken into account relevant rules, laws, regulations and 
where appropriate, good industry practice.  The rules which are of particular relevance to 
Mrs Ss complaint are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs).
What the PSRs say is that if the evidence suggests that its more than likely that Mrs S 
authorised these transactions, Barclays is entitled to hold her liable.  If the evidence is to the 
contrary, Barclays must reimburse the payments.
Authorisation is a two-stage test.  It requires Barclays to show that the payments have been 
authenticated and that Mrs S consented to the payments being made.  And I remind myself 
that it is for Barclays to show that the payments were authorised  not for Mrs S to show that 
they werent.
From the evidence provided by Barclays, I am satisfied the payments were authenticated.  
That is Mrs Ss genuine card and PIN were used to make them.  I then need to consider 
whether Mrs S consented to them being made.  
The difficulty I have here is that Mrs S has told us that her memory is not very good when it 
comes to the relevant period.  Im sure it was a difficult time for Mrs S and the medication 
cant have helped.  But what that means is that I must consider the circumstances of the 
case and decide what I think is more likely to have happened based on these circumstances.  
I am limited on the weight I can give to Mrs Ss recall.
I think its more likely than not that Mrs S consented to, and therefore authorised these 
transactions for the following reasons:- she told this service her old card and PIN were together in her bag. If Mrs Ss sister 
wanted to make withdrawals from her account, I think she most likely would have 
used the card and PIN she may have had access to.  I think it is unlikely she would 
have ordered a new card and PIN to be ordered to Mrs Ss home address without 
knowing for sure whether she would be able to access them
- due to the time that has passed, Barclays has been unable to provide us with the 
evidence as to how the new card and PIN came to be ordered in branch.  What it has 
told us is that only the account holder, with a card and PIN or relevant identification, 
would have been able to make these requests.  On balance, I think its likely Mrs S 
made these requests in branch and has possibly forgotten that she did
- in order to make a transfer using the ASD machine, Mrs Ss card and PIN would be 
required as well as knowledge of her date of birth as the machine would ask for two 
random digits.  I accept Mrs Ss sister may know her date of birth  but based on my 
findings above, I think its unlikely her sister had her card and PIN
- I can see no benefit to Mrs Ss sister in transferring £2000 each to Mrs Ss son.  Mr S 
(the representative in this complaint) has told us that he is not welcome in his 
aunties home so I think its unlikely she would be transferring such a large sum to 
him
- Mrs S said the key to her property was in her bag.  She suggests her sister may have 
attended and would have been allowed into her home by another person.  Our 
investigator spoke to those at Mrs Ss property and they have confirmed that 
strangers are not simply allowed to access someone elses home
- despite discovering the transactions in June 2019, Barclays was not alerted until 
some months later
- a further card was order in February 2019 but no further PIN. As Mrs S continued to 
make transactions, on balance, I think she had access to the PIN which had been 
ordered in December 2018.
So, when I consider these circumstances, I think its more likely than not that these 
transactions were authorised.
I have also considered the concept of apparent authority.  Under the relevant rules  the 
PSRs  a consumer is liable for transactions carried out by a third party if they have given 
their card and details to a third party to use and the third party has then gone on to make 
transactions over and above those requested.  So, for instance, if Mrs S had provided her 
details to someone close to her, she doesnt need to know the full details of the transactions 
which are being made for her to be held liable.
On balance, I think Mrs S either made these transactions herself or a third party, who was 
close to her, had her authority to do so.  Either way, I am sorry to say, Barclays is entitled to 
hold her liable.
Finally, Ive considered Mrs Ss complaint that Barclays staff were aggressive towards her 
and bullied her when she complained.  Ive listened to, and watched the footage which Mrs S 
has provided, and again, Im afraid I dont think that they were.  I think staff were entitled to 
ask the probing questions which they did.  After all, Mrs S was alleging a third party had had 
fraudulent access to her account.
I know this will be disappointing for Mrs S, but I hope this decision has clarified why I cant 
uphold this complaint and as I said earlier, I hope it can now bring an end to matters for her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman