DRN-1825856
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the charges Ald Automotive Limited, trading as Ford Lease, imposed 
on him at the end of his hire agreement. He wants a refund of those charges.
What happened
In June 2016 Mr M entered into a hire agreement through Ford Lease to lease a car. In June 
2019, just before the end of the agreement, Mr M returned the car to a dealership and 
arranged to lease a new car  also through Ford Lease.
But there was a breakdown in communication between Ford Lease, the dealership and Mr M 
around the collection of the car. This led to a payment of £484.99 for late hire charges being 
collected from him as the car had remained at the dealership for more than two months after 
hed returned it.
 
By late August 2019 the car had been collected by Ford Lease. It agreed to credit the 
£484.99 late hire charges to Mr M and waive further late hire charges it was about to 
impose. Mr M was happy with this. But a few days later he received an invoice from Ford 
Lease totalling £587. This was £412 for damage to two of the doors - £206 per door - and 
£175 for an incomplete service history as there was no evidence of a 75,000-mile service 
being carried out.
 
Mr M wasnt happy with this. He told Ford Lease hed left all the receipts relating to the cars 
service history in the glove box when hed returned it to the dealership. Mr M also said he 
disputed the damage to the doors as hed had the car independently inspected before 
handing it back.
Ford Lease rejected this complaint. Briefly, it said the charges had been applied in line with 
guidelines on fair wear and tear published by the trade body, the British Vehicle Rental & 
Leasing Association (BVRLA). This covered the damage to the doors and there being no 
evidence that a 75,000-mile service had been carried out. Ford Lease offset the £484.99 
credit due to Mr M against the invoice of £587. This left Mr M with a balance of £102.01 to 
pay.
 
Mr M continued to dispute the charges. He also provided Ford lease with a receipt for the 
missing service. But this didnt alter its position. So Mr M brought his complaint to our 
service.
 
One of our investigators looked into this matter. In short, she thought the charges for the 
damage to the doors had been applied fairly and line with the BVRLA guidelines. But our 
investigator said as the 75,000-mile service had been carried out, it wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable for Ford Lease to charge Mr M for this. She said Ford Lease should deduct this 
from the £102.01 owed by Mr M. This meant it needed to refund £72.99 to him. 
Mr M accepted our investigators view, but Ford Lease didnt. So this complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision. After reviewing the file in full, I also thought Ford Lease 
shouldnt charge Mr M for the missing service. Given the relatively small amount involved, in 
an effort to resolve this matter without the need for a formal decision, I spoke to Ford Lease 
to see if it was now prepared to refund £72.99 to Mr M. It wasnt. So Ive set out my findings 
and final decision below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
But first. Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in far less detail 
than has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. 
Mr M accepted our investigators view. After looking at the inspection report carried out by 
Ford Lease, I agree with our investigator that the charges for the damage to the doors have 
been applied fairly and in line with BVRLA guidelines. This means Ive focussed on whether 
its fair and reasonable for Ford Lease to charge Mr M for the missing service history. I dont 
think it is. Ill explain why. 
Ive looked at the BVRLA Fair Wear & Tear Guide in relation to car servicing. In summary, 
this sets out that the service book for Mr Ms car should be stamped by the servicing agent 
as evidence the service has taken place. If the record is kept electronically, then appropriate 
evidence of the service, such as an invoice, should be produced.
 
Ive also looked at the inspection report. The photos of the service book clearly show stamps 
showing five services being carried out at 12,500-mile intervals, up to and including the 
service at 62,500 miles. Theres no stamp for a 75,000-mile service. On the face of it, as the 
service record to that point doesnt appear to have been kept electronically, this seems to fall 
outside of the BVRLA guidelines. But Ive thought about whether its fair and reasonable to 
apply a charge for this, taking into account the individual circumstances of this particular 
case.
 
Mr M told both us and Ford Lease that receipts for all six services were in the glove box 
when he left the car with the dealership. But when the car was inspected, they dont seem to 
have been there. The inspection report doesnt mention or show these six receipts.
 
I would point out here when a car is returned its usual for the hirer, in this case Mr M, to be 
present when the car is inspected. Thats not what happened here. Mr M wasnt present 
when the car was inspected. Thats because thered been quite a delay between Mr M 
returning the car on 10 June 2019 to the dealership and Ford Lease arranging to collect the 
car on 27 August 2019  thats over 11 weeks later.
 
I can see Ford Lease liaised directly with the dealership, not Mr M, to arrange for the 
collection and inspection of the car. Mr M wasnt involved at all. Ford Lease told us there 
was a breakdown in an internal system used when Mr M was taking out a new hire 
agreement. So Im satisfied it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to hold him responsible for the 
long gap between returning the car to the dealership and Ford Lease arranging for it to be 
collected.
 
I can also see Mr M moved addresses in 2018. He said he emailed Ford Lease to tell them 
his new address. Ive no reason to doubt this. But unfortunately, Ford Lease has no record of 
this change of address and, due to the passage of time, Mr M hasnt been able to give us a copy of the email he sent. In any event, this means that all the letters Ford Lease sent to him 
about his lease coming to an end, were sent to Mr Ms old address and he didnt get them.
 
This meant when Mr M returned the vehicle to the dealership and entered into another hire 
agreement with Ford Lease, he thought everything was fine. When he later received the 
invoice, dated 29 August 2019, for the damage to the doors and the incomplete service 
history, Mr M got in touch with Ford Lease straight away.
 
 On 4 September 2019, he told Ford Lease the receipt for the 75,000-mile service had been 
in the glove box when he returned the car in June 2019. Mr M gave Ford Lease the details of 
the dealership who had carried out the service and invited them to confirm it had indeed 
been carried out. It seems Ford Lease didnt do this. So Mr M followed this up by getting a 
copy of the receipt for the service directly from this dealership. He provided a copy to Ford 
Lease.
 
Ford Lease says the car was sold for less than it could have been because of the incomplete 
service history. But if there hadnt been all the confusion over the return of the car and the 
long delay in Ford Lease arranging to collect it, its more likely than not Mr M would have 
been present when the car was inspected. There then wouldnt have been any uncertainty 
over what happened to the service receipts.
 
As it is, when the issue of the incomplete service history was brought to Mr Ms attention, he 
was able to evidence the 75,000-mile service pretty much straight away. Im satisfied he 
would also have been able to do this if hed been present when the car was inspected. 
Taking all of this into account, in the individual circumstances here, Im also satisfied its not 
fair and reasonable for Ford Lease to charge Mr M £175 for an incomplete service history.
 
So, Ford Lease should deduct this £175 charge from the outstanding £102.01. This means it 
now needs to refund £72.99 to Mr M.
My final decision
My final decision is Ald Automotive Limited should refund £72.99 to Mr M. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
John Miles
Ombudsman