DRN-1660757
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that HSBC Bank Plc didn't tell them their residential mortgage 
needed to be below 80% loan to value (LTV) to allow them to take a second residential 
mortgage with the bank. They understood the second mortgage had to below 80% LTV, but 
not that the first mortgage also had to be.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs L had a mortgage with a different lender. They decided to remortgage to 
HSBC as they were interested in the fact HSBC allowed customers to have a second 
residential mortgage with it (so long as both properties were only inhabited by an immediate 
family member).
The first mortgage completed in July 2019 on a rate that was fixed at 1.99% until 31 July 
2021.
Mr and Mrs L then tried to apply for the second mortgage, but were told they couldn't 
because their first mortgage had an LTV of just under 85%.
HSBC apologised that it hadnt been made clear in the phone call before the first application 
that both LTVs needed to be under 80%. It paid £200 compensation for that, and reminded 
Mr and Mrs L that they could make a lump sum payment to their mortgage to take the LTV to 
under 80% without incurring an early repayment charge (ERC).
Mr and Mrs L were unhappy with that as they said the property they wanted to buy had 
increased in price from £102,000 to £120,000, and they felt that was profit they'd lost out on. 
Our investigator said there was no guarantee the second property purchase would have 
gone through anyway, so she didn't think compensation was due for that. But she did say 
HSBC should allow Mr and Mrs L to exit the mortgage (within six months of accepting that 
outcome) without charging an ERC or other exit fees.
HSBC agreed to that. Mr and Mrs L didn't accept it and so it's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Although Ive read and considered the 
whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it 
in order to reach the right outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent of, consumers and businesses. What this 
means is that we dont represent either party. Were required to decide whats fair and 
reasonable having assessed all the available evidence from the parties.Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business makes a mistake, mistakes do 
happen. In this case it was a simple error that meant Mr and Mrs L were led to believe that 
they could apply for a second residential mortgage with HSBC without there being any 
restriction on the LTV of the first residential mortgage. This is a mistaken statement of facts; 
otherwise known as a misrepresentation. When were looking at complaints of this type we 
consider the appropriate remedy is to place the consumer in the position they would be in if 
the incorrect information hadnt been given. We dont put them in the position they would be 
in if it had been correct. 
If the correct information had been given, Mr and Mrs L would have been told they could only 
borrow up to 80% LTV for each property. Mr and Mrs L could never have been in the 
position where they could get the second mortgage with HSBC despite owing so much on 
their first mortgage.
Mr and Mrs L have made much of what they see as lost profit on the second property. But 
they're forgetting something. They've said they were buying the second property for Mrs L's 
mother to live in (and that's the only reason HSBC would allow it on a residential basis). So 
it's completely irrelevant that the price of the property was increased to £120,000 (from the 
£102,000 Mr and Mrs L have said they would have bought it at), because Mr and Mrs L 
wouldn't have bought it at £102,000 and then sold it within months at £120,000. There is no 
"lost profit" as Mr and Mrs L see it.
A property is only worth what someone is willing to pay for it at the time it is sold. So it's 
entirely possible that if Mr and Mrs L had bought the property for £102,000 it could have 
been worth the same - or less - as they'd paid for it at whatever point in the future they came 
to sell it.  They've also not factored their cost savings due to not buying the second property 
into that lost profit as they see it; things such as the mortgage interest and mortgage set-up 
costs, the buying and selling costs, the higher stamp duty land tax charge because it would 
have been a second property. 
And all that is assuming Mr and Mrs L would have been successful in buying the property. 
Mrs L has insisted their income was more than sufficient and HSBC wouldn't have turned the 
application down. But there's much more to factor into it. HSBC may have turned the 
application down for another reason, for example the valuation of the property may not have 
deemed it as suitable security. Or the vendor could have accepted a higher - or alternative - 
offer from a different buyer (a higher offer like the £120,000 Mr and Mrs L have mentioned). 
There are too many variables and things that can go wrong with property purchases for me 
to say with any certainty (which I'd have to do if I were to uphold this part of the complaint) 
that the only reason Mr and Mrs L were unable to buy this particular property was because 
of the mis-information given in the phone call about the LTVs.
Mr and Mrs L said they needed to remortgage anyway as their existing preferential rate was 
coming to an end, and they'd been offered a rate of 2.69% by their mortgage provider. 
They've said that there were lower rates available in the market that they could have applied 
for if they'd known HSBC wouldn't offer them the second mortgage. 
I've considered this point carefully, and studied the historical rates information that shows 
what was available in the market at the time. Having done, so I'm satisfied the rate Mr and 
Mrs L took with HSBC was broadly in line with what other providers were offering at that 
time, and so I don't make any award in respect of the rate taken.
That said, HSBC has agreed to allow Mr and Mrs L out of their fixed rate early (without 
charging an ERC or exit fees) if they choose to move their mortgage elsewhere within six 
months. That's a fair offer and is what I would have ordered had HSBC not already agreed to it. I'm satisfied the £200 compensation already paid by HSBC is fair, and so I make no 
further order or award.
Putting things right
HSBC should waive the ERC and any other exit fees if Mr and Mrs L complete a remortgage 
to a different lender within six months of the date of their acceptance of this decision. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part against HSBC Bank Plc and order redress as I've set out 
above. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which means well 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to accept or reject 
my decision before 17 June 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman