DRN-3459664
The complaint
Mr M complained that Hastings Insurance Services Limited renewed his motor insurance 
policy without his consent.
What happened
Hastings emailed Mr M in October 2021 saying theyd renewed his car insurance for the 
forthcoming year. But Mr M said he hadnt asked them to renew his policy. He said hed 
cancelled it in October 2020 and had taken out alternative insurance elsewhere then. He 
then discovered that Hastings had been taking direct debits from his bank account during the 
previous year. This amounted to more than £300.
He phoned Hastings to discuss this, and to have them refund the amount theyd taken. 
Hastings agreed, but only once he sent them proof of the alternative insurance hed had for 
the previous year and the forthcoming year. But they didnt give him an email address to do 
that and, in the meantime, Hastings sent him letters threatening to refer him to credit 
agencies if he didnt restart the direct debit. He said he had to chase Hastings about it. Once 
Mr M sent Hastings the proof of his alternative insurance, they refunded the premiums hed 
paid. They also apologised and compensated him £30 to recognise the distress and 
inconvenienced caused. Mr M didnt think this was enough. He said the matter wasted his 
time and caused him stress . 
The investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. They thought that 
Hastings had not acted fairly and reasonably and that they should pay Mr M additional 
compensation of £100 for his distress and inconvenience. Hastings didnt agree and so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Hastings said that it was their policy to auto renew insurance so that cars were not left 
uninsured. They admitted that Mr M had contacted them in October 2020 but said it wasnt 
clear that he meant to cancel his policy then. In particular although his email said that he 
would cancel his direct debit then, he didnt cancel it. Mr M accepts he forgot to cancel it.  
But I think his email then is sufficiently indicative of him wanting to cancel his policy and if 
Hastings were in doubt about that they should have contacted him then to clarify what he 
meant. 
Hastings listened to their calls with Mr M in October 2021 and they agreed that their service 
was not up to the standard they would expect. They apologised for their letter referring to the 
credit reference agency. They said it was a regulatory requirement that they inform 
consumers of steps to be taken if a debt went unpaid. They believed their £30 compensation 
was enough. They said they sent Mr M the policy terms and conditions and they expected 
him to have read those, and they had treated him like any other consumer, and followed 
correct process and regulatory requirements.
I think that Hastings could have done more to communicate with Mr M properly, and to help 
him understand why they were doing what they were doing. I think that by then Mr M had 
told them that Mr M he did not want to renew for the forthcoming year and that he had been 
insured elsewhere for the previous year. So I think that Hastings should have explained why 
they wanted that information and shouldnt have sent him the letter about non-payment. I 
think that did worry him and cause him unnecessary distress.
 Putting things right
I dont think that their offer of compensation of £30 does adequately reflect the distress and 
inconvenience they caused Mr M and they should pay him an additional £100.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint.
I require Hastings Insurance Services Limited to pay Mr M £100 in compensation for his 
distress and inconvenience, additional to any they have already paid.
 
Hastings Insurance Services Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell them Mr M accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a simple rate of 8% a year. 
If they consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mr M how much theyve taken off. They should also give 
him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
