DRN-3789848
The complaint
Ms Y complains about the quality of two sofas she purchased under a fixed sum loan 
agreement (agreement) with Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation).
What happened
Ms Y purchased two sofas at a cost of £2,465 from a company that I will call H. Ms Y also 
purchased a warranty costing £335. The sofas were delivered in May 2017.
Ms Y funded her purchase by way of an agreement with Creation which she signed in 
January 2017. Under the terms of this agreement, everything else being equal, Ms Y 
undertook to pay a deposit of £100 followed by 48 monthly payments of £56.25  making a 
total repayable of £2,800 at an APR of 0%.
A repair was undertaken on the sofas after Ms Y complained to H about the quality of them.
Ms Y wasnt satisfied with the repair, and the continued deterioration of the sofas, so 
approached H to arrange for them to be collected and a refund issued to her.
H wasnt prepared to take the sofas back without an independent report confirming there 
was a fault either present, or developing, with them when they were first supplied. H also 
advised Ms Y that if she remained unhappy she needed to raise her concerns with Creation.
Ms Y complained to Creation in July 2019.
In July 2020 Creation issued Ms Y with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of this 
FRL Creation said it didnt believe there was a fault with the sofas and for the issue to be 
investigated further it, like H, would need an independent inspection undertaken by an 
acceptable third party and a report confirming that there was a fault either present, or 
developing, with the sofas when they were first supplied.
In July 2020, and unhappy with the content of Creations FRL, Ms Y complained to our 
service.
Between July 2019 and July 2020 Ms Y says she disposed of the two sofas and purchased 
two second-hand ones.
Ms Ys complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. 
Ms Y didnt agree with the investigators view, so her complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ms Y, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why. 
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of its here 
Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a fixed sum loan, as is the 
case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 75 claim. This 
section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower 
under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the 
supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. 
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met. 
So, if Ms Y was supplied with sofas that werent of satisfactory quality when supplied Id 
think there was a breach of the implied terms of the contract and Id ask Creation to take 
some further action. 
Based on what Ms Y has said and submitted, she didnt raise a complaint about the quality 
of the sofas, for a second time and after what she says was an unsuccessful first repair, 
until after they had been in her possession for six months. 
The relevant legislation explains that if a fault occurs, or reoccurs, after the first six months of 
ownership the onus is on the consumer to demonstrate the fault was present when the 
goods were supplied.
Now I appreciate Ms Y has, or did have, photographs of the sofas. Unfortunately, these 
arent sufficient to prove a fault and certainly arent sufficient to prove a fault was present or 
developing at the time of supply. However, what is generally accepted as being sufficient is 
an independent inspection and report, which both H and Creation advised Ms Y she needed 
to obtain.
Now I appreciate Ms Y says she couldnt afford to get an inspection and a report undertaken. 
But even if I was to accept this was the case and it would have been more appropriate for 
Creation to pay for an inspection and a report (which for the avoidance of doubt I make no 
finding on) this is no longer an option because Ms Y has disposed of the sofas.
I can understand why Ms Y took the decision to dispose of the sofas. But, unfortunately, this 
means they can no longer be inspected. And this is the case regardless of who  for 
whatever reason  should have had to pay for such an inspection.I also accept that had Creation not taken a year to issue its FRL, Ms Y might not have 
disposed of the sofas. But although this delay would have clearly been frustrating for Ms Y, 
she had the right  eight weeks after she first complained to Creation and possibly why she 
still had the sofas  to refer her complaint to our service. But she didnt do so until July 2020.
So, with all the above in mind, I can confirm that I cant fairly and reasonably hold Creation 
liable for the claim Ms Y has made (against it) under section 75.
Im aware Ms Y has concerns about how Creation dealt with her complaint and she thinks 
this constitutes a breach of its regulatory obligations. Complaint handling, however, isnt a 
regulated activity (or ancillary to a regulated activity). And having not upheld this complaint 
its not within my powers to consider such concerns or make an award in respect of them.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman