DRN-3379900
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Aspira Corporate Solutions Limited trading as Aspira failed to 
adequately disclose the fees she has been paying for the on-going servicing of her pension 
and ISA investments. 
What happened
Mrs W had been a client of her financial advisor, who now works for Aspira, for over twenty 
years. She says she was first introduced to the advisor by a family member who later had 
non-operational responsibilities as a member of the Aspira board. Aspira has provided 
servicing for Mrs Ws pension and ISA investments.
Aspira has charged Mrs W a fee equal to 1% of the total value of her investments for its 
ongoing support. In January 2020, following some concerns about poor customer service 
that Mrs W had received, Aspira agreed to reduce its fee to 0.75%. Over the remainder of 
the year, Mrs W says the relationship she had with Aspira deteriorated, leading to her 
terminating their agreement in February 2021.
In response to that termination, Mrs W says she began to investigate the services that might 
be provided by other financial advisors. She says that it was only at that time that she 
understood the advice fees Aspira had been receiving had been taken from her pension 
savings, rather than being paid by the product providers. She says that, over the years, 
Aspira had been deliberately vague about its fee structure and she has no recollection of 
having agreed to pay those charges.
Mrs Ws complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She noted that she had 
seen a letter sent to Mrs W in 2012 setting out the charges she would need to pay. Mrs W 
had signed an agreement in 2016 reconfirming the charges. And Aspira had sent us a copy 
of a charges summary from Mrs Ws pension provider, issued in December 2019, that again 
showed the 1% charge. So our investigator thought that Aspira had sufficiently disclosed its 
charges to Mrs W, and so she didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mrs W didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs W and by Aspira. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
It seems clear that Mrs W has had a long, and apparently cordial, relationship with Aspira. 
She says that she was introduced to the managing director of the company by a family 
member. And that family member went on to serve on the companys board of directors. So 
it is understandable that Mrs W might be disappointed by the end of her relationship with the 
firm, and the events that led up to that point.
Mrs Ws complaint isnt about the advice she has received from Aspira over the years. But 
instead it is about the information she was given in relation to the charges she needed to pay 
for Aspiras ongoing support. I think her concerns can reasonably be summarised as being 
that she was not made sufficiently aware that the ongoing fees would be deducted from her 
pension savings, rather than being paid by the product provider. And that, by quoting the 
charges in percentage terms, rather than providing a monetary value or estimate, Aspira 
disguised the true financial cost of its services.
It seems that much of the advice and information that Mrs W received from Aspira was 
provided during regular face to face meetings. Those meetings werent recorded, nor do they 
appear to benefit from comprehensive minutes. So to a large extent I am reliant on the 
documentation that was produced, and signed by Mrs W, at or after those meetings.
Mrs W has provided us with her recollections of what was discussed. And she says those 
recollections are supported by her husband who was also present at the meetings. I have no 
doubts that Mrs W has provided her honest and complete recollections of the discussions. 
But Im conscious that some of the discussions took place many years ago. And over such a 
lengthy period of time even the most careful of memories can, and do, fade. So I dont think 
it unreasonable to prefer the documentary evidence from the time over undocumented 
recollections.
In 2012 Aspira appears to have met with Mrs W to discuss her making a large contribution to 
her pension plan. More recently Mrs W has told Aspira that its recommendation to contribute 
to her pension plan over the years was undoubtedly good advice. Following that meeting 
Aspira wrote to Mrs W to confirm their discussions. And as part of that letter Aspira set out 
the charges it had previously agreed. It confirmed to Mrs W these would be a 3% 
implementation fee, with an ongoing 1% service charge.
I accept that paragraph concludes by telling Mrs W that 100% if her money would be 
invested. Mrs W says she interpreted that to mean that the charges payable to Aspira would 
be paid by the pension provider in the form of commission. But Im not persuaded that is a 
reasonable interpretation of the letter. And without any other contemporaneous evidence to 
persuade me that was the explicit basis of Mrs Ws discussions with Aspira, my conclusion is 
that Aspira did enough here to set out the charges Mrs W would need to pay.In 2016 Aspira asked Mrs W (and her husband) to sign a new fee agreement. That 
document headed up Client Agreement and Fee Structure set out the basis on which 
Aspira would provide its services. It was signed by both Mrs and Mr W on 20 September. 
The document set out in detail both that the ongoing service charge would be 1% of the 
funds under management, and also explained the various methods that could be used to 
collect those charges. It told Mrs W that she could pay the charges either by cheque, card, 
or by deduction from a financial product that she invested in. And the document also 
provided some worked examples of what the cash equivalent of the 1% charge would be for 
investment portfolios of differing amounts.
Again I am satisfied that this document clearly set out the charges that Mrs W had agreed to 
pay, both in terms of the agreed percentage, and also giving examples of what that would 
mean in cash terms. And I think the information provided about how those charges could be 
paid should have made it clear to Mrs W that it was her, rather than the pension provider, 
that was responsible for funding the charges payments either directly or by deductions from 
her investments.
In late 2019 Aspira had started to discuss with Mrs W whether she might be better off 
moving her pension savings to a different investment platform. As part of those discussions it 
provided her with a detailed document setting out all the charges she had paid in the past 
year on her pension and ISA savings. That showed that she was paying charges to the 
funds in which she was invested, the investment platform that she was using, and to Aspira 
for its advice. The document reconfirmed that Mrs W was paying Aspira 1% as its adviser 
remuneration.
I appreciate that following that meeting, in recognition of their long-standing relationship and 
some customer service problems Mrs W had experienced, Aspira offered to reduce its 
charge to 0.75%. But that is entirely a commercial decision for the business to make. I dont 
think a reduction in the charge indicates that Aspira had treated Mrs W incorrectly in the 
past. Its charges had been clearly set out in the documentation that was given to Mrs W, and 
she had agreed to pay them. I dont think the fact that Aspira could have chosen to charge 
less, or indeed other cheaper servicing arrangements might have been available from other 
financial advisors, means that the charges Mrs W has paid were unfair.
Mrs W says that the changes introduced by the Retail Distribution Review in 2012 mean that 
Aspira could instead have charged her on the basis of a fee for any work that it undertook. 
And that appears to be a correct interpretation of those regulations. But again, that would be 
a commercial decision for Aspira to take. It might have chosen to offer its services on that 
basis  and of course Mrs W would have been free to accept that charge, or negotiate 
something different  but it wasnt required to charge on a fee basis. Making ongoing 
charges on the basis of a percentage of the investment, where services were regularly 
provided as appears to be the case here, was perfectly permissible under the regulations.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mrs W. But the contemporaneous 
evidence, over the time of their relationship, suggests that Aspira acted reasonably in 
making her aware of the charges she needed to pay for its services. And I think the way 
Aspira presented that information to Mrs W was in line with the relevant regulations.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Aspira Corporate Solutions Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman