DRN-4460396
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that when they asked Santander UK Plc for a mortgage, it 
overestimated how much they could borrow. Mr and Mrs G said they paid a deposit on a 
house in reliance on this, and ended up committed to a purchase they couldnt afford.
What happened
Whilst this complaint is brought by both Mr and Mrs G, as the mortgage is in both their 
names, our dealings have been with Mr G. So Ill mainly refer to him in this decision. 
Mr G said in August 2021 he and Mrs G secured a mortgage offer with Santander to buy a
new-build home. On the strength of the offer, which would have allowed them to borrow
£250,000, they paid a large deposit for the new house they wanted.
Mr G said unfortunately their new home wasnt ready by the time this mortgage offer expired.
So they needed to apply for a new mortgage. Mr G said Santander then wouldnt offer them
the same lending. It said this was because Mrs Gs wage had gone down.
Mr G said that wasnt the case, and asked Santander to check again. He told us Santander
then accepted it had previously offered more than they could afford. But he said Santander
didnt accept this was a mistake, and it didnt apologise. Mr G said they had paid a non-
refundable deposit of tens of thousands, on a house they could no longer afford to buy.
Mr G said he suggested to the advisor that they might still be able to get all the lending they
needed to complete their house purchase, if they paid off some of their loans. And he said
Santander told him that if they did pay off a considerable amount of debt they could get the
mortgage they need to buy the house.
Mr G said he and Mrs G had to pay off £18,000 of debt so they could reapply for the lending
they needed. He said they were going to use that money to pay for flooring, furniture, and
landscaping in their new home. They were no longer able to buy those things. Mr G said if
Santander hadnt made a mistake with the offer it made in August 2021, they would never
have paid the deposit for a house they couldnt afford to buy and furnish as they wanted.
Mr G said Santander had paid £200 in compensation and extended their second offer for an 
extra month. But he said the house wasnt going to be ready before the extended offer 
expired. So he wanted Santander either to extend the offer by two months instead of one, or 
pay compensation of £12,000 to cover the higher interest rates that he and Mrs G would 
have to pay if they took a mortgage elsewhere.
Santander said something different. It sent us letters it had sent to Mr and Mrs G. Those
letters are somewhat confusing, as Santander doesnt appear to have understood at the
beginning what Mr G thought had gone wrong, and it hasnt been clear in those letters about
where the income figures it first used for Mrs G, came from. But overall, it does appear that
Santander accepted it had made a mistake, just not the one that Mr G thought it had made.
Santander said there was nothing wrong with the first offer it made. It said it had confirmed
the figures it used with Mr and Mrs G over the phone, on 27 July 2021. They had then
agreed that Mrs G had a net monthly income of £2,982.
Santanders first mortgage offer, issued in August 2021, unfortunately expired before Mr and
Mrs Gs property was ready. So Mr and Mrs G needed to make a second mortgage
application. And it was here Santander said it thought it had made a mistake.
Santander said Mr and Mrs G were initially offered a lower borrowing amount on this second
application, of £222,418 over 25 years. Santander said Mrs Gs income had reduced, since
the first application, so it didnt think that lower offer was a mistake.
But then Santander looked at extending the term of their mortgage, to increase the available
borrowing. And then it did make a mistake. Santander said it had given Mr and Mrs G a 
figure of £228,000, over 35 years 4 months. This was in December 2021, during the first of
two interviews that Mr and Mrs G had for their February 2022 mortgage offer.
By the second mortgage interview, in January 2022, Santander realised it had based this
figure of £228,000 on a longer term than it was able to give Mr and Mrs G. It had worked out
the possible mortgage term based on Mrs Gs date of birth, and it should have used Mr Gs,
as he was a little older. So, with a shorter term, they wouldnt be able to borrow as much.
Santander understood that Mr and Mrs G then paid off some debts, to increase the amount
of mortgage lending it would make to them. Santander said it hadnt advised Mr and Mrs G
to do that. But it noted that theyd then secured an offer of £265,999 in early February 2022.
Santander said it had extended Mr and Mrs Gs offer by one month, to the end of August 
2022, but if the property wasnt ready by then, their second mortgage offer would expire, and
they would need to reapply again.
Santander said it would pay Mr and Mrs G £250 in compensation, for its mistake, £50 more 
than it had previously offered. But it didnt think it was responsible for the delay in completion 
of their property, so it wouldnt extend their offer further. And it wouldnt pay as much 
compensation as Mr G wanted.
Santander understood Mr and Mrs G had been speaking to another lender, and had another
offer in place that would run past August 2022, in case their property wasnt ready within the
validity of the second offer Santander had made.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said the first mortgage
application, made in summer 2021, had been based on a higher income for Mrs G than the
later application. That was what showed on her payslips, so he didnt think it was a mistake.
Our investigator said it wasnt Santanders fault that Mr and Mrs Gs new-build property
wasnt ready before the second offer expired. Our investigator understood Mr and Mrs G had
eventually bought their house with a mortgage from a different lender.
Our investigator thought Santander had done enough to make up for the mistake it did 
make, using Mrs Gs date of birth instead of Mr Gs. He didnt think it had to do any more.
Mr G didnt accept that. He said Santander only said at first that Mrs Gs income had gone
down by the time of the second application. When it checked, it realised that the payslip it
used for the first application had some expenses which had falsely increased the monthly
income, and it had used this payslip figure for Mrs G. So it got her income wrong.
Mr G said Santander should have checked the pay slips against the signed declaration ofMrs Gs earnings. He said it obviously didnt, and he said that was why they had put down a
deposit on a house they couldnt afford. Mr G said we hadnt addressed this.
Mr G said he had initially paid off lending to get the mortgage he and Mrs G needed. Then
hed had to take out new, short term loans, after buying the house. Mr G said hed be stuck
paying these back for many years, and he regretted buying the house.
Our investigator asked both parties for some more information, but he didnt change his
mind. He said hed compared the payslips Mrs G sent for the first and second applications,
and the pay was higher on the first payslip. It didnt show any holiday pay or expenses. So
he didnt think Santander had wrongly assessed Mrs Gs income. And he thought Mr and 
Mrs G were then initially offered a lower amount of lending, for their second application,
because of the reduction in Mrs Gs income.
Our investigator said it was also important to take into account that the different lender Mr
and Mrs G then took out a mortgage with, also thought this lending was affordable for them.
Our investigator said he still wouldnt ask Santander to do any more.
Mr G still disagreed. He said Mrs Gs payslip for June 2021 might not have showed holiday
pay or expenses, but it still included them. He said theyd sent a signed application saying
what Mrs Gs salary was, and if Santander had cross-checked that application against Mrs
Gs payslip, it would have seen the mistake. Mr G said that it was in reliance on the resulting
mortgage offer that they paid the deposit on the house, so he still thought it was Santanders
fault they committed to this property purchase, which he now regrets.
Mr G wanted this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for
a final decision. And I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
The first application
Our investigator said Santander had assessed Mrs Gs income correctly, on the first 
application. I think thats right, but I think when our investigator mentioned figures, he 
was looking at the payslip Mrs G sent Santander then. And, although I can see there 
has been some confusion around this, thats not the figure I think Santander used.
Mr G said the June payslip wasnt right, it wasnt representative of what Mrs G was 
really earning at the time. He said it contained some expenses and holiday pay.
There are no expenses or holiday pay noted on the payslip itself, so that wouldnt have 
been clear to Santander.
But Mr G also said the figure on that payslip didnt match the one he and Mrs G had 
given Santander, when theyd been asked to tell it what their monthly salaries were. So 
he thought if Santander had used this payslip figure, it had been negligent, and he and 
Mrs G shouldnt have been led to believe they could afford this house.
But I dont think the figure on Mrs Gs June 2021 payslip is the one Santander used for 
Mrs Gs income, on the first mortgage application they made. I can see the printout of 
their application form states a net monthly income for Mrs G of £2,982, not the higher 
figure shown on her payslip.That lower figure is the one Santander mentioned in its complaint response letter, sent 
on 10 August 2022. In that letter, Santander said it set out the following figures for Mr 
and Mrs G on a call on 27 July - £2,982 for Mrs Gs income, and £1,722 for Mr Gs 
income, making a total of £4,704. Mr and Mrs G had confirmed then that these figures 
were accurate.
Thats also consistent with the amount set out in the mortgage recommendation report
Santander sent to Mr and Mrs G, on 27 July 2021. The report listed a total net monthly
salary for them both, of £4,704. 
So, I think Santander did base its first offer on the information about Mrs Gs salary that 
it received directly from Mr and Mrs G, and then confirmed with them during their 
application. I dont think it used the higher net figure shown on her payslip. And that 
means I dont think there was a mistake by Santander, in its first offer to Mr and Mrs G. 
Theres nothing to make me think that Santander had offered in August 2021 to lend Mr 
and Mrs G money that it ought to have known they couldnt afford. I dont think 
Santander is responsible for decisions on a property purchase Mr and Mrs G took, 
based on this offer. 
The second application
Santander said Mrs Gs income had gone down by the time of the second application. 
Ive checked what Santander has said about that too, and I think thats also right.
Mrs G had changed jobs, since the first application was made and the offer issued in 
August 2021. Santander has sent us a new employment contract for Mrs G, dated 1 
October 2021. And it also sent us Mrs Gs payslips for November and December. Those 
do show a lower net salary each month, of just over £2,100. That amount isnt just lower 
than the amount set out on Mrs Gs previous payslip, its also lower than the amount Mr 
and Mrs G previously gave to Santander, as Mrs Gs net monthly earnings.
I think thats likely to have contributed to Santanders decision then to offer a lower 
amount. I dont think that was a mistake by Santander.
Santander accepted it did make a mistake, when it told Mr and Mrs G they could have a
much longer mortgage term. However, this mistake appears to have been remedied 
quickly. I can see that it only ever made a small difference to the available lending, and 
unfortunately still didnt get them the amount they needed to complete their purchase. 
So I think this had a limited impact on Mr and Mrs G, and the payment of £250 that 
Santander has made does provide a fair outcome to this part of their complaint.
Mr and Mrs G then decided to use some money theyd set aside for fitting out and 
furnishing their new home, to pay off some of their pre-existing short-term lending 
instead. They did that so they could still get the mortgage lending they wanted. I think it 
was their decision to do this.
Following this, Santander increased the amount it said they could borrow. But I can see 
its mortgage recommendation report dated 26 January 2022 still shows a lower monthly 
net salary for Mr and Mrs G combined, than the previous report. In January 2022, this 
monthly net income had dropped to £3,780.
I understand Mr and Mrs G have since made some purchases for their new home on 
credit, which Mr G says will take a considerable time to pay off. Mr G has said they are hugely disappointed in how things have worked out with their new purchase. Ive been 
very sorry to hear about the stress this has put them under. But I dont think thats 
Santanders fault. 
My provisional view is that I dont think Santander has to do more than its done already 
in this case. And, although I know I Mr and Mrs G will be disappointed, that means their
complaint wont be upheld. 
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Only Mr G replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G said he was totally confused about my provisional decision. He said I was saying their 
mortgage was recalculated at a lower amount because Mrs G had changed jobs. But he said 
that was wrong. Mr G said Santander had told him that Mrs Gs income had reduced, but the 
pay slips were from the same company.
Mr G wanted me to find the date that this happened, get the relevant call recording, and 
provide proof of when he and Mrs G were told of this reduction, and check both payslips. Mr 
G said he was convinced that when they were told they could only borrow a lesser amount, 
Mrs G was at the same company. He said thats why they were so confused about being told 
that Mrs Gs income had gone down.
Our service sent Mr and Mrs G copies of Mrs Gs payslip for end June 2021, and for end 
December 2021, which are from different employers. Ill refer to the first of these as 
Employer A, and to the second, where we have both the payslip and new employment 
contract, as Employer B. Our service also sent Mr and Mrs G a copy of Mrs Gs new 
employment contract with Employer B. That was dated 1 October 2021, and said Mrs G 
would start work with Employer B on 1 November 2021.
Mr G wrote again, to say he still didnt think our service had got things right. He said the 
crucial part was when they paid the deposit for the house. Mr G said as he remembered it, 
theyd submitted the application first with the payslips from Employer A, and got a mortgage 
in principle, then extended with the second payslip from Employer B. 
I think I should pause here to note that this would mean it was the payslip from Employer A 
which was relevant for their first offer  the offer which Mr G has argued gave them the 
confidence to pay their deposit. 
Mr G said that when they needed to extend their mortgage again, they provided another 
payslip from Employer B, and that was when they were told there had been a reduction in 
Mrs Gs income. Mr G said hed said then that wasnt possible as the pay slips were from the 
same company. It was then that they had realised that the first pay slip from Employer B 
contained expenses.
Mr G said his timeline was that they had provided the first payslip from Employer B, got the 
mortgage, then placed the deposit, then extended with the second slip from Employer B, and 
that's when the mistake was realised.
I understand Mr G wanted me to listen to call recordings, which he said would support his 
argument here. But I havent requested all the call recordings that Santander holds in this case, to try to locate a call recording where Mr G was told the above. Thats because I dont 
think those are likely to support what Mr G now tells us. I think there is unfortunately still 
some confusion over the timeline here, and what Mr G says now doesnt seem to me to be 
consistent with his previous complaint to us, or with the dates on the documents that 
Santander has sent us. 
When Mr G replied to our investigators view, in an email dated 9 August 2023, he said he 
thought Santander had made a mistake over Mrs Gs salary, and this mistake was based on 
Mrs Gs payslip of June 2021, from Employer A. But hes now saying that this mistake was 
made later, on the payslips supplied for Employer B.
The core of Mr and Mrs Gs complaint, was that Santander got Mrs Gs income wrong when 
it first made them a mortgage offer. So they paid a non-refundable deposit on a house they 
said they later realised they couldnt afford. 
Mr and Mrs G made their first mortgage application in July 2021, and received an offer on 9 
August 2021. I think its reasonable to assume they paid their deposit shortly after this, as 
thats consistent with the documentation Ive seen, and with what Mr G told us when he first 
complained to us, and when he replied to our investigators view.
 
The offer that was made on 9 August 2021 was available until 31 January 2022. It wasnt 
extended. Santanders notes show that Mrs G contacted it again in December 2021, to see if 
the previous offer could be extended, and was told it could not. 
So Santander made a mortgage offer in August 2021,when Mrs G was working for Employer 
A. It didnt reconsider its lending to Mr and Mrs G until they approached it again in December 
2021. By this time, Mrs G had changed employer, and was working for Employer B. 
Mr and Mrs G then made a fresh mortgage application with Santander in December 2021. 
Santander did review its lending to them at this point, and Mr and Mrs G were initially told 
they could borrow less than Santander had offered in August 2021. Santander says this is 
because Mrs G had changed employer, and was earning less with Employer B. Both the 
dates and amounts on Mrs Gs payslips support what Santander has said about this. 
I have considered Mr Gs new arguments, and Im sorry to have to tell him that I havent 
changed my mind. I still think that Santander didnt make the mistakes Mr G has suggested 
in assessing Mrs Gs income as part of the mortgage offers it made. And I think the payment 
of £250 that Santander has made, does provide a fair and reasonable outcome for the 
mistake I can see it did make, when it wrongly suggested it could extend the mortgage 
period based on Mrs Gs age, without accounting for Mr Gs age too. 
For those reasons, I still dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill now make the 
decision I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman