DRN-3333981
The complaint
Mr P complains about how Cynergy Bank Limited trading as Cynergy Bank dealt with an 
Individual Savings Account (ISA) application.
What happened
Mr P says he tried to open a new Cynergy ISA and wanted to transfer his existing ISA to it in 
July 2021. He says there were a number of problems with the attempted transfer. Mr P says 
Cynergy didnt open the account correctly, didnt request his ISA from his previous provider 
and gave him incorrect information. He says he spent some time on telephone calls to 
Cynergy and would like £250 compensation.
Cynergy accepts making a number of mistakes and has apologised. It has paid Mr P £250 
compensation.
Mr P brought his complaint to us and our investigator accepted there were a number of 
mistakes made by Cynergy but that it had paid appropriate compensation, which was the 
amount Mr P asked for.
Mr P doesnt accept that view and says he has now opened an ISA elsewhere. He says the 
compensation paid isnt enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Cynergy has dealt fairly with this 
complaint by apologising and by paying appropriate compensation.
There is no reason for me to repeat in detail what took place and can see that the 
circumstances are well known to both parties. And that the investigator has summarised the 
key events.
The only real issue for me to consider is the level of compensation. I accept that Mr P spent 
some time trying to sort matters out and was clearly given misleading or incorrect 
information. I have no doubt Mr P was caused inconvenience and frustration in what ought to 
have been a straightforward matter. 
I dont think Mr P suffered any real financial loss and that Cynergy has fairly apologised for 
what took place. I can see Mr P has now opened an ISA elsewhere. Im satisfied that 
Cynergy has paid a fair and reasonable compensation amount of £250 which was the 
amount Mr P also asked for. It follows that I cant order Cynergy pay further compensation 
and find the award fairly reflects what took place and the impact on Mr P. I also think the 
award is in line with type and amount of awards we would have made for this type of issue.
My final decision
My final decision is that Cynergy Bank Limited trading as Cynergy Bank has paid a fair and 
reasonable compensation amount and so I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman