DRN-2160941
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002 over the phone. Mr E says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
There isnt still a recording of the call where PPI was sold, which is understandable given the 
many years that have passed. Indeed, under data protection rules, Capital One were 
required to dispose of Mr Es data rather than hold onto it for too long. But from what Ive 
seen of Capital Ones sales process from the time, the staff shouldve made it clear that the 
policy was optional. Ive not seen any wider problems with Capital Ones sales process from 
the time, nor any evidence which makes me think that this sale differed significantly from the 
normal process. So on the balance of probabilities, I think its most likely that Capital One 
made it clear Mr E didnt have to take out PPI and that he chose to take it at the time  
though I can understand if he no longer recalls doing so after so many years.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr E, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. It did have to make sure Mr E got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it looks like 
Mr E was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or 
limitations. And he didnt have any other significant protection in place in case he was off 
sick or lost his job. So the policy would have been useful for Mr E in case something went 
wrong. And it was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr E could cancel it at any time without 
a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to have put him off 
taking it out. 
Lastly, I understand that there may have been an occasion or occasions where Mr E could 
have claimed on the PPI, but didnt. If Mr E was eligible to claim, but didnt, then he may be 
able to make a back-dated claim now. If hed like to do that, he should get back in touch with 
Capital One. And if Mr E has any trouble with the back-dated claim, he may be able to bring 
that to our service as a separate case. But even if Mr E didnt claim when he could, it looks 
like the policy did still offer useful cover to him, and it seems most likely he took it out at the 
time even if he no longer remembered doing so later on.
This means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr E because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr E about that. Because Capital One didnt tell him, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mr E any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman