DRN-2948194
The complaint
Mr K complains about the transfer of the defined-benefits he held in the British Steel Pension 
Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says he was advised to transfer by Carnwyllon 
Wealth Management Ltd (CWM, the respondent business in this complaint) and another 
financial business (which Ill call Firm B). He believes that the advice provided was 
unsuitable for him which has resulted in him suffering a significant financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ks employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits 
to a private pension arrangement.
In August 2017 Mr K was sent a Time to Choose leaflet, which meant hed need to decide 
whether he wanted to join BSPS2 by December 2017. Mr K didnt know what to do so he 
contacted CWM.
Mr K says he met with CWM and a representative of Firm B in November 2017 and he says 
both businesses advised him to transfer his BSPS benefits. CWM didnt hold the relevant 
permission from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to advise on the transfer of Mr Ks 
defined benefits in the BSPS, so it says it referred Mr K to Firm B for advice. 
Firm B sent Mr K a recommendation letter on 30 December 2017 advising him to transfer out 
of the BSPS to a personal pension plan with a business Ill refer to as L. £140,382.23 was 
transferred to his new pension and was invested with L. Mr K was referred back to CWM for 
ongoing advice and servicing of his pension.
In 2019 Mr K complained to both CWM and Firm B about the advice.
Firm B didnt uphold the complaint and Mr K referred his complaint about it to our service. 
However, whilst the complaint was with us, Firm B went into liquidation so Mr Ks complaint 
about this business has been referred to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS).
CWM told Mr K it hadnt provided him with any advice to transfer his pension  it said it had 
referred him to Firm B.
Mr Ks representative asked our service to consider his complaint, saying CWM should be 
held liable for the advice, as well as Firm B. The representative said Mr K had been verbally 
advised to transfer by CWM and he had relied on its advice.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He wasnt persuaded that CWM had advised 
Mr K to transfer his pension  he was satisfied that Mr K had only transferred his pension 
because Firm B advised him to do so. The investigator thought Mr Ks alleged loss had 
ultimately arisen due to Firm Bs actions.
Mr Ks representative didnt agree and asked for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ks representative says CWM should be held liable because it went beyond its role of 
introducer. It says CWM verbally advised Mr K to transfer his BSPS benefits to the pension 
with L and Mr K proceeded with the transfer on this basis.
CWM did not have permission from the FCA to advise on the transfer of defined-benefit 
occupational pension schemes. For this reason, it had an introducer agreement in place with 
Firm B. Im aware of a significant number of customers seeking advice on their BSPS 
benefits who were introduced by CWM to Firm B. In the majority of the cases Ive seen, the 
initial advice fee was shared between both businesses. However, I note here that Mr K only 
paid an initial advice fee to Firm B. Mr K then paid an ongoing advice fee to CWM once it 
took over the servicing of his pension after his BSPS benefits were transferred to L.
Having considered the information available, Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence 
to show that CWM advised Mr K to transfer his BSPS benefits. Based on what Ive seen, 
CWM met with Mr K on a couple of occasions and on one of those occasions, Firm Bs 
adviser was also present. I can see that CMW completed an attitude to risk assessment with 
Mr K on 13 November 2017 and a fact-find on 30 November 2017. While Mr K says CWM 
encouraged him to transfer out of the BSPS, I havent seen any evidence to show that CWM 
gave Mr K a personal recommendation. However, I do think its likely that CWM was 
operating on the presumption that Firm B would probably advise Mr K to transfer out of the 
BSPS and I think it probably discussed the benefits of doing so with Mr K. So, I think its 
possible Mr K had the impression that CWM was advocating for the transfer of his BSPS 
benefits to a personal pension at the time. But I dont think that necessarily means CWM 
advised Mr K to take out the pension with L.
Ultimately Im persuaded that it was Firm B that recommended Mr K should transfer his 
BSPS benefits to the pension plan with L. The evidence Ive seen shows Firm B carried out 
an attitude to risk assessment with Mr K on 9 December 2017. The pension transfer 
questionnaire was also completed for Firm B and was signed by Mr K and Firm Bs adviser 
on 9 December 2017. Firm B then produced a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report and an 
illustration for the pension plan with L on 12 December 2017. So, I think its clear that by 
9 December 2017 CWM had introduced Mr K to Firm B and Firm B had started gathering the 
information it needed to give Mr K advice.
I note the application form for the pension was submitted by the adviser at Firm B on 
27 December 2017, which included the details of Mr Ks BSPS benefits to be transferred. 
Although this was before Firm B produced its recommendation letter on 30 December 2017, 
I dont think that means CWM must have already recommended Mr K transfer his BSPS 
benefits to it. It seems more likely to me that by the time the application form was submitted, 
Firm B had already decided it was going to be recommending Mr K transfer his BSPS 
benefits to L. And I note the formal recommendation letter followed just a few days later. 
Overall, I think it was only because of Firm Bs involvement that Mr K applied for the pension 
with L and transferred his BSPS benefits to it.Mr K says he relied on his interactions with CWM when deciding whether to transfer his 
BSPS benefits. But Mr K couldnt have transferred based on these interactions with CWM 
alone. The transfer value quotation provided by the trustees of the BSPS stated that Mr K 
would be required to provide evidence that he had taken appropriate financial advice if he 
wanted to transfer his BSPS benefits to a flexible benefits scheme. This requirement was 
repeated in the transfer value discharge form, which further stated that Mr K would need to 
provide a signed confirmation from his adviser that such advice had been given.
It is clear to me, based on the evidence Ive seen, that CWM did not issue any 
recommendation letter or suitability report to Mr K advising him to transfer out of BSPS. 
However, Firm B issued a suitability report addressed to Mr K recommending that he 
transfer out of the BSPS to a pension with L. And Ive seen a copy of the letter Firm B sent to 
the BSPS trustees confirming it had given Mr K advice. CWM did not produce such a 
document as it did not give Mr K any formal advice in respect of his pension. So, Mr K 
couldnt have transferred out of BSPS based on the meetings he had with CWM or any 
verbal advice he feels he was given.
I have nevertheless considered whether Mr K would have still opted to transfer his benefits 
out of the BSPS to a personal arrangement if Firm B had advised him not to transfer. Mr Ks 
representative says Mr K was persuaded to transfer based upon his interactions with CWM. 
But on balance I dont think Mr K wouldve gone against the advice provided by Firm B. Mr K 
was a relatively inexperienced investor and had over two decades before he could think 
about accessing his pension. So, if Firm B had provided Mr K with clear advice in writing 
against transferring, explaining why it wasnt suitable for him, I dont think Mr K wouldve 
acted against that advice purely based on his earlier discussions with CWM.
In conclusion, I havent seen any evidence that it was CWMs advice that ultimately led to 
Mr Ks decision to transfer out of the BSPS, without the actions of Firm B. If the advice Mr K 
received to transfer was unsuitable, then I think Firm B is responsible for Mr Ks losses 
flowing from the transfer. Im aware that Firm B was declared in default by the FSCS, so 
Mr K will need to pursue a claim with the FSCS  I understand he is already in the process 
of doing so. I am also not persuaded that CWM made an error or treated Mr K unfairly in the 
role it carried out, so I dont think it needs to do anything to put things right for Mr K.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman