DRN-3333430
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V have complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs V arranged their mortgage in 1992 but did not take out PPI at that time. It was in 
1996 that they were sold the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs V disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Vs complaint and Ill explain why.
BoS doesnt have any paperwork from the time of the sale, which is not surprising given how 
long ago it took place and considering that the mortgage itself was redeemed in 2005. It has 
however been able to provide internal screenshots of basic information such as the date of 
sale and the cost and benefit amount of the policy.
Its also not surprising if Mr and Mrs Vs memory of events has faded. Mr and Mrs Vs 
recollection seems to be that they were sold PPI at the same time as arranging the 
mortgage, however that was not the case. As their mortgage had been running for almost 
four years at the time they were sold PPI, they cannot have thought that it was a condition of 
the mortgage lending.
From what we know of BoSs sales processes at the time, they normally presented the PPI 
as optional and I havent seen any evidence that would lead me to conclude that something 
different happened in this case. On balance I consider that Mr and Mrs V decided to buy it, 
knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
In advising Mr and Mrs V to buy the policy, BoS needed to ensure that it met their needs. 
And from what I know of Mr and Mrs Vs circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable 
for them.
Mrs V would have received sick pay from her employer of six months full pay followed by six 
months half pay. They think that Mr V would have received similar from his employer. 
However, the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer 
than Mr and Mrs V would have received full pay for. Mr and Mrs V have also said they had 
some savings at the time. But the policy would have allowed them to retain any savings or 
use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time. 
Its possible that BoS could have provided more information about the policy, particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs V werent affected by any of those 
things. For example, they didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions that might have 
been excluded under the policy.
As I consider that Mr and Mrs V had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont 
consider that further information would have caused them to change their minds. So they are 
no worse off as a result of anything BoS may have done wrong, so theres nothing BoS 
needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman