DRN-3118475
The complaint
 Mr P has complained about Bank of Scotland Uk Plc (Trading as Halifax)s decision to 
agree to offer him an overdraft in January 2020 and then to increase that overdraft limit up to 
£3,500 over the next month or so. He says Halifax was aware that he suffered with a 
gambling addiction and so should not have agreed to offer him an overdraft facility at all. 
What happened
 Halifax looked at Mr Ps complaint and while it didnt think it had been irresponsible to lend 
to him, it nonetheless agreed to refund the fees and interest he had paid on his overdraft 
since the facility was put in place on 26 January 2020. It said it would use this refund to 
reduce his outstanding balance and then also reduce his arranged overdraft to reflect that 
new balance. Halifax also offered various ways it could assist him with his gambling 
addiction and with managing his account going forwards. Mr P remained unhappy and so 
referred his complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ps complaint. She said that while Halifax had done the 
right thing in offering to refund charges from January 2020, she felt it also shouldnt have 
continued to provide Mr P with an overdraft after it became aware of his difficulties in April 
2020. So the adjudicator recommended that the further charges applied after Halifaxs initial 
offer should also be refunded. She also set out that Halifax should contact Mr P to ensure an 
affordable repayment plan was agreed for the outstanding balance, and that any adverse 
information that was due to be recorded about the remaining outstanding balance should be 
backdated to reflect what would have happened if Halifax had started to take action 
regarding Mr Ps account in January 2020.
Halifax responded to set out how it would resolve Mr Ps complaint in line with the 
adjudicators findings. It noted that no fees or interest had been applied to Mr Ps account 
from when it first made its offer of a refund in June 2020 until August 2021. But Halifax 
confirmed it would agree to refund the fees incurred after August 2021 as set out by the 
adjudicator. Halifax also explained that it would use this refund to reduce Mr Ps overdrawn 
balance and would then issue him with 30-days notice that it would be removing his 
overdraft facility. If Mr P cannot repay the overdrawn balance within 30 days then Halifax 
explained that it would pass his account to its collections department where an affordable 
repayment plan could be agreed. Halifax did though note that this could result in information 
about this account being recorded on Mr Ps credit file, but confirmed that as per the 
adjudicators instructions this information would be backdated to reflect what would have 
happened if Halifax had started to take action regarding this account in early 2020.
Mr P disagreed with what Halifax had suggested. He feels it is unfair for Halifax to remove 
his overdraft limit and potentially record negative information on his credit file given his 
difficult personal circumstances. As an agreement could not be reached, this complaint has 
been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Im satisfied that what Halifax has already offered to 
do to put things right is a fair way to resolve this complaint. Ill explain the reasons for my 
decision. 
I agree with our adjudicator that Halifax should not have continued to offer Mr P his overdraft 
once it became aware of his gambling problem and financial difficulties in April 2020, so I 
think its fair that as well as the refund it had already offered, Halifax should also refund the 
further fees and interest applied after they started being once again added to Mr Ps account 
in August 2021. 
But I also think that the correct course of action now is for Halifax to take steps to remove 
Mr Ps current overdraft limit and agree an affordable repayment plan for Mr P to pay back 
his overdrawn balance. I appreciate that the removal of the overdraft limit seems to Mr P like 
a particularly harsh step for Halifax to take. But I wouldnt expect a lender to keep an 
account open with an overdrawn balance (which would continue to incur overdraft interest 
and charges) when there is no prospect of that overdrawn balance being repaid in a 
reasonable period of time. 
Removing the overdraft facility and passing the account to the banks collections department 
means that interest and charges on the remaining balance can be stopped and an affordable 
long-term repayment plan can be agreed. This seems a reasonable step for the bank to take 
in the circumstances. And if, as a result of this action, Halifax does record any adverse 
information on Mr Ps credit file, I also dont think that would be an unreasonable step to 
take. A credit file is intended to show a true and accurate reflection of a borrowers financial 
position, so if Mr P has an outstanding debt with Halifax that he cannot afford to repay then I 
dont think its unreasonable that his credit file should reflect that.
Bearing in mind the above, Im satisfied that what Halifax has already offered to do to 
resolve this complaint  including the removal of Mr Ps overdraft facility so that steps can be 
taken to agree an affordable repayment plan  is fair in the circumstances. Once Halifax has 
taken the steps set out in its offer, I would suggest to Mr P that he make sure he continues 
to communicate with Halifax to agree a repayment plan that is affordable to him.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr P. But I hope hell understand the 
reasons for my decision. 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint, but think that what Bank of 
Scotland Uk Plc (trading as Halifax) has already offered to do to put things right is fair, so I 
dont think that it needs to do anything more
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman