DRN-3750168
The complaint
Miss W brings this complaint on behalf of the estate of the late Mr L. She says Aviva 
Insurance Limited unreasonably delayed the claim made under Mr Ls life assurance policy.  
What happened
Miss W brings this complaint on behalf of the estate of her late father. She also represents 
her mother, Mrs L.   
Mr L held a protection policy with Aviva from 1983. He sadly passed away in November 
2021. Miss W says that on 2 November 2021, Mrs L contacted Aviva to ask about making a 
claim for death benefit under the late Mr Ls policy. Claim forms were issued by Aviva via 
post. Aviva contends it was first notified about the claim on 12 November 2021. 
Miss W says the forms were not received until 30 November 2021. She called Aviva that day 
for help with the forms, and again on 3, 9, 10, 16 and 30 December to chase the progress on 
the claim and ask for assistance with the forms and requirement for certified documents. 
On 4 January 2022, Aviva advised Miss W that the copy of the Will it had received wasnt 
certified. Miss W told Aviva that the certified copy was returned on 11 January 2022. Aviva 
then confirmed the claim payment of £3,923 had been made on 20 January 2022.  
In the interim, Miss W complained in calls to Aviva of 10 December 2021 and 5 January 
2022. She said she was unhappy with the claim process. She felt Aviva had caused delays, 
it hadnt called her back when it said it would and when the original claim pack was received, 
the small claims form (SCF) had been missing. She explained how her mother was worried 
about debt shed incurred having paid for Mr Ls funeral in November 2021 by using credit. 
On 26 January 2022, Aviva upheld the complaint in part. It said that once it had reviewed Mr 
Ls death certificate, policy document and payment instruction form received on 2 December 
2021 from Miss W, it had noted it couldnt process them. This was because the Will it 
received was not a certified copy. It then asked for the certified Will and a SCF the following 
day. After discussion with Miss W on 9 December and 13 December about what was 
required, it received further documentation on 23 December 2021.  
However, the Will received on 23 December 2021 was a photocopy. It was returned to Miss 
W and Mrs L on 5 January 2022. Aviva then had to liaise further with Miss W to explain it 
required an original or certified copy of the Will, a new payment instruction form as Miss W 
was confirmed an executor and Miss Ws bank details evidenced by a bank statement. As 
Aviva received these on 13 January 2022, it paid interest on the claim payment which was 
issued on 20 January 2022. 
In summary, Aviva said it felt it had requested further documents and set out its 
requirements to pay the claim in a timely manner  the ten working day time-limit was for the 
claim itself, not any other steps required to secure appropriate documentation. 
However, it did accept that its claim pack had omitted the SCF and that its leaflet on who the 
claim would be paid to (a spouse in the absence of a Will or otherwise an executor) was 
confusing for Miss W and Mrs L. It also agreed that it could have carried out more courtesy 
calls to Miss W in order to help her navigate the claim process. To account for that upset, it 
paid £100 to Miss Ws bank account.  
On 31 January 2022, Miss W sent a further letter of complaint to Avivas Chief Executives 
Office. She set out a chronological summary of the claim process and she said that she and 
Mrs L both felt Aviva had misinformed them, been obstructive, delayed the claim deliberately 
and failed to act sympathetically when it had been explained that the death benefit was 
required to cover the cost of Mr Ls funeral.  
Miss W also felt that Aviva ought to have used email rather than post, given the inherent 
delays with postal services and the cost they had incurred in sending required information. 
Aviva explained it had already replied to the complaint on 26 January 2022. So, Miss W 
referred the complaint to this service.  
An investigator reviewed the complaint but he did not think it should succeed. He said that 
he felt Aviva had processed the claim within an acceptable period, particularly noting there 
was clarification required over claim forms and the claim covered the festive period. He 
believed the £100 that Aviva had offered for the upset caused to Mrs L was also reasonable.  
Miss W said she and Mrs L were bitterly disappointed with the investigators conclusion on 
the complaint and they wanted it to be escalated to an ombudsman. They also said:
they still feel that Aviva has not properly considered their whole complaint;
this has led them to feeling let down and distressed;
they had planned that the policy would provide cover for Mrs L to pay for Mr Ls 
funeral, but because of the delays she was stressed unnecessarily about the cost;
they were advised the payment would be released in 10 working days so they placed 
reliance on that;
no matter what time of year it was, 68 calendar days was too long to wait for a claim 
to be paid;
the claim was actually notified to Aviva on 2 November not 12 November as the 
investigator had suggested;
this made the process 79 calendar days;
Aviva had all the information it needed to pay the claim before the festive break;
Miss W had to consistently call Aviva for updates;
the £100 was merely paid without confirmation from Miss W (or Mrs L) as to whether 
it was accepted or not;
it took a prolonged time to return Mr Ls Will to Mrs L;
Mr L had been paying into the policy since 1983  Miss W says she feels disgusted 
at how badly her parents have been treated. 
Aviva didnt have any other comments to make.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go any further, I send my condolences to Mrs L and Miss W for their loss and thank 
them for their patience whilst this matter has awaited a decision. From reviewing everything on file, I can see how things have been distressing for them both and I wish them well. 
This services role is to investigate disputes and resolve complaints informally, whilst taking 
into account relevant laws, regulations and best practice. In reaching my decision, Ill focus 
on the issues I believe to be central to the complaint to decide what I think is fair and 
reasonable in all of the circumstances. 
Its also important for me to point out that we do not act in the capacity of a regulator; that 
remit falls to the Financial Conduct Authority. Our decisions dont ordinarily interfere in how a 
business may conduct its operations or exercise what may be commercial judgment when 
providing a service, such as using postal correspondence or setting its own timescales. 
I can see that Miss W feels very strongly that the claim process has been unduly and 
unreasonably prolonged by Aviva. Whilst Miss W is entitled to form her own view on what 
has gone on, I must also do the same. And from an objective standpoint, I do not consider 
that this claim has been unfairly handled, aside from the errors that Aviva has upheld in its 
final response to the complaint on 26 January 2022.  
I appreciate and recognise that the time taken to settle the claim was upsetting for Miss W 
and Mrs L where they were relying on the funds in order to pay their funeral expenses. I 
accept how worrying that must have been for them. But I cannot agree that Aviva caused 
that worry or unduly exacerbated it. Its duty was to process a valid claim within reasonable 
timescales upon receipt of verification documentation needed to release the funds. It couldnt 
have settled the claim to coincide with Mr Ls funeral arrangements for mid-November. 
Aviva has provided a copy of the chronology of calls and correspondence between the 
parties and I have reviewed this alongside that supplied by Miss W in her follow-up to 
Avivas Chief Executives Office. These accord with one another for the most part; save for 
Miss W disputing the claim notification date on 2 November  which Aviva says was 12 
November. I suspect the latter date is likely accurate since I note that Miss W began chasing 
Aviva from receipt of the paperwork at the end of November. However, the claims pack was 
sent on 25 November 2021, which Avivas internal notes recorded as being within its own 
timescales. 
The ten-working day turnaround time set out initially by Aviva was for payment of the claim 
once all required completed documentation had been supplied. The first point that this may 
have applied would have been when the forms were received back by Aviva on 2 December 
2021. However, the Will was not enclosed, and the SCF hadnt been returned.  
The SCF form omission as the fault of Aviva as it hadnt supplied it in the pack issued on 25 
November 2021. However, the claim could not have been settled within ten working days of 
2 December 2021 as Aviva hadnt received an original or certified copy of the late Mr Ls Will 
 and this was required to process the claim.  
By 9 December 2021, Miss W had located Mr Ls Will showing her as the executor  and she 
told Aviva as such via telephone. However, the following day she called again and wasnt 
called back until 13 December 2021. She again queried the process on 16 December 2021.  
On 23 December 2021, Aviva received the SCF, payment instructions and a copy of Mr Ls 
Will  but it was not an original nor a certified copy. On 4 January 2021, Aviva wrote to Miss 
W requesting updated payment information (since the previous form had given Mrs Ls bank 
account details but Aviva could only release funds to the confirmed executor, Miss W) and 
explaining how it required certification of the copy of the Will.  
Again, at this juncture, the ten-working day time frame did not apply because Aviva still didnt have accurate information to pay the claim. Once the correct information was received by 
Aviva on 13 January 2022, it sent Miss W the funds on 20 January 2022  this was within 
five working days.  
Aviva also confirmed to Miss W that it had returned her documentation and sent appropriate 
tracking information when it did so by recorded postal services. 
So, it follows that I do not believe the claim could have been paid to Miss W any sooner than 
it was. Unfortunately, obtaining the correct valid documentation for settling a claim where 
there is an executor for an estate needing an original or certified Will does take additional 
time and administration. Aviva isnt responsible for any delay in that regard and I cannot 
compel it to disregard its verification requirements. However, it made some customer service 
failings, and it has acknowledged those in the final response letter of 26 January 2022. 
I agree with Aviva that it made errors in failing to send the SCF with the original claim pack, 
in not returning Miss Ws calls as promised on occasion and in lacking support for Miss W in 
dealing with the requirements put to her on behalf of Mrs L  when it was clear they were 
both struggling. Aviva has paid Miss W £100 compensation for the upset she suffered.  
I can see that Miss W remains unhappy with how Aviva has handled the claim and that not 
each and every aspect of the complaint has been answered to her satisfaction. To this end, 
she feels she should have been compensated in the region of £500.  
However, even if I were to agree that an additional payment of compensation was 
appropriate, I couldnt propose any payment of the upset caused to Miss W directly. That is 
not to say I dont recognise how distressing the claim process was for her on behalf of her 
mother, but I do not have a free hand to make an award of that type directly to Miss W. I 
know this seems confusing, but our rules do not allow it. Ill explain why that is. 
We are bound by the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules which apply to this service as set out 
in the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook. An ombudsman is not able to avoid the rules 
or apply discretion to certain rules. Complaints that are made to this service must be 
pursued by an eligible complainant (for example, a consumer or a micro-enterprise) and 
those complaints must be about acts or omissions by businesses when carrying out certain 
regulated activities  in this case, Avivas administration of the claim payment under the 
protection policy for which the late Mr Ls was the policyholder. 
A specific rule (DISP rule 2.7.2 R) allows a third party to bring a complaint on behalf of an 
eligible complainant (such as a policyholder) to this service, for example from an appointed 
representative or an executor of an estate for an eligible complainant that has since passed 
away. But that doesnt mean the representative is an eligible complainant in their own right.  
Though this service can make further awards for the distress a business has caused in 
relation to a complaint (DISP 3.7.2 R), and whilst a complaint can be made to this service by 
a representative on behalf of the eligible complainant (or the estate of a complainant that has 
passed away), that does not confer the right to receive a money award to the representative. 
That means I cannot make an award for upset or trouble caused to Miss W. 
In any event, I do not agree that the claim could have been paid sooner than it was. And 
whilst I am glad to note that Aviva rightly agreed there were instances where it failed to 
provide the correct customer service to Miss W (primarily where she made repeated and 
continued calls in December 2021 and early January 2022), I do not believe it needs to do 
anything further to settle the complaint. And, as Ive said above, I cant direct Aviva to make 
any further award to Miss W for any upset she was caused in pursuing the claim, because 
shes not an eligible complainant in her own right and my jurisdiction does not extend to that. My final decision
I do realise my decision will be disappointing for Miss W and Mrs L. But for the reasons 
given, I cannot uphold this complaint or make any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr L 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman