DRN-3780158
The complaint
Ms A and Mr K complain about Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) and the amount of transactions 
that were declined from their accounts. Ms A and Mr K think the frequency of these declined 
transactions is evidence they were discriminated against.
Although this complaint refers to a joint account, Mr K has acted as Ms As representative 
when engaging with our service. So, for ease of reference where applicable, Ive referred to 
the actions of both Ms A and Mr K as Mr K throughout the decision.
What happened
Ms A and Mr K held a joint current account with BOS. Mr K also held two other current 
accounts, plus several savings accounts.
But between March 2020 and January 2022, several transactions Mr K made from these 
accounts were blocked or declined. And whenever this happened, Mr K needed to contact 
BOS to remove the blocks applied to his account to allow the transactions to through. Mr K 
was unhappy about, so he raised several complaints throughout this period.
Mr K was unhappy the transactions made from his accounts continued to be blocked or 
declined. He explained hed made hundreds of calls to BOS to rectify this, and he wanted to 
be compensated for the time and upset this had caused, as well as the lost earnings he felt 
hed incurred. Mr K also wanted BOS to remove all future blocks to his account so he was 
able to access his money without any further inconvenience.
BOS responded to Mr Ks complaints about this issue and didnt uphold them. They thought 
theyd acted fairly, and in Mr Ks best interests, when declining or blocking the transactions 
as they have a duty to protect his accounts from potentially fraudulent activity. They 
recognised this inconvenience this wouldve caused but they didnt think they had done 
anything wrong because of it. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr K 
remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
While Mr Ks complaint was with our service, his accounts with BOS were closed.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They recognised the 
significant inconvenience Mr K had been caused by the blocked transactions and the effort 
required to regain access to the funds. But they didnt think this was caused by any error 
BOS made. They thought BOS had a duty to protect Mr Ks account, and this is what our 
investigator thought BOS had done. And as BOS fraud prevention system was automated; 
they didnt think there was evidence to show BOS had discriminated against Mr K when 
blocked or declining certain transactions. So, for these reasons, our investigator didnt think 
BOS needed to do anything more.
Mr K didnt agree. And he requested sight of the evidence our investigator relied upon before 
providing his comments as to why he didnt agree. But despite this information being 
provided, Mr K hasnt provided any further comments within the timeline agreed. As Mr K 
didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr K. I think its clear to see 
Mr K feels strongly about the service hes received from BOS. And its not in dispute that Mr 
K did have several transactions blocked or declined which Ive no doubt wouldve been 
frustrating and inconvenient to rectify. So, I can appreciate why Mr K feels hes been unfairly 
treated and why he may assume this surmounts to discrimination. And because of this, I can 
understand why Mr K believes he should be compensated.
But for me to say BOS should compensate Mr K, I first need to be satisfied theyve done 
something wrong. So, I need to be satisfied that BOS made errors when blocking or 
declining Mr Ks transactions. Or, I need to be satisfied that BOS acted unfairly when doing 
so and in the service they provided to Mr K when he contacted them to remove these blocks. 
And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly what I can consider and comment upon. I note that Mr K has a range of other issues 
regarding BOS, and the service theyve provided. This includes issues that have arisen since 
our involvement. But this complaint focuses solely on Mr Ks complaints regarding the 
blocking and declining of his transactions and so, I havent thought about anything outside of 
this issue.
And I note Mr Ks belief that BOS fraud prevention system isnt fit for purpose and that it 
should be investigated. But this would fall under the remit of the industry regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority to pursue and comment on. My role is to consider the individual 
circumstances of Mr Ks complaint and decide whether I think BOS have acted fairly and 
reasonably. I am unable to comment upon, or direct BOS to change, their internal processes 
and systems as these are part of BOS overall business processes put in place as 
commercial decisions. This would be for the industry regulator to consider.
So, focusing back on Mr Ks complaint, its not in dispute that Mr K has had several 
transactions either blocked or declined. From what I can see, between March 2022 to 
January 2022, around 5% of Mr Ks attempted transactions failed to be processed. And it 
follows that in each of this cases, Mr K wouldve needed to speak to BOS to ensure the 
block or decline was removed and the transaction was processed.
Again, I dont think its in dispute that this wouldve been both inconvenient and time 
consuming for Mr K. I fully appreciate the upset that Mr K wouldve felt needing to speak to 
BOS to authorise a genuine transaction he was trying to make. But for me to say Mr K 
should be compensated for this, I need to be satisfied BOS blocked or declined a 
disproportionate amount of the transactions Mr K made. And I dont think they have.
Under our services general approach, a roughly 5% block or decline rate is considered a 
reasonable amount. This is because we must take into consideration a bank such as BOS 
duty to ensure their customers accounts are protected from potentially fraudulent activity. 
So, we must allow for a certain percentage of transactions to be stopped in this way.While I recognise Mr K would like to understand why so many of his transactions were 
blocked or declined, this isnt information BOS are obliged to provide to Mr K as it is 
commercially sensitive information. But having considered Mr Ks transactions, and the 
potential list of reasons BOS have provided that is built into their computerised automated 
process, I dont think Ive seen evidence that suggests to me BOS purposefully or wrongfully 
blocked or declined Mr Ks transactions. 
And I dont think I can say there is evidence to show Mr K has been discriminated against, 
as the blocks and declines resulted from BOS computerised automated process. So, the 
only way Mr K couldve been discriminated against wouldve been if BOS had purposefully 
altered their automated process to specifically treat Mr K, and his accounts, differently. And 
Ive seen no evidence to show this is the case, nor do I think it would be reasonable for me 
to say BOS were likely, or even able, to do this. 
As I think BOS acted fairly when blocking or declining Mr Ks transactions, Ive then thought 
about the process Mr K had to follow to remove this. I can see that between March 2020 and 
January 2022, Mr K called BOS a significant amount of times. While I dont think each of 
these calls wouldve resulted purely from the block transaction, for example Im aware Mr K 
has raised several complaints which will account for a proportion of the calls he made, I do 
think its clear Mr K has had to speak to BOS more than he wouldve wanted to.
BOS have confirmed customers are able to authorise blocked or declined payments over the 
phone or, on occasion, by text. But due to the time that has elapsed, theyve been unable to 
state which options Mr K had available at any given time. But from the number of calls Mr K 
made, I think its reasonable for me to assume that for most of the time, Mr K needed to call 
BOS.
And given the fact that the majority of this time period was impacted by COVID-19, which 
impacted the majority of businesses and their customer contact function, I think its 
reasonable for me to assume Mr K may have encountered longer wait times than he 
wouldve wanted.
But I dont think this is something I can hold BOS responsible for, or say theyve done 
anything wrong because of it. As BOS had a concern about the transactions, I would expect 
them to ensure they had spoken to Mr K to ensure the transactions attempted were genuine 
as they have a duty to protect Mr Ks account. So, while I accept this wouldve been 
inconvenient to Mr K, I dont think I can say this means BOS acted unfairly. Had BOS 
allowed the transactions to be processed after they had been flagged through their fraud 
preventions systems without speaking to Mr K, I think BOS wouldve placed Mr Ks accounts 
in undue risk. And this isnt something Id expect BOS to do. 
So, while I dont dispute the frustration and inconvenience Mr K suffered over a substantial 
amount of time, I dont think I can say this was caused by an error BOS made. Or, due to 
BOS acted unfairly or unreasonably. Because of this, I dont think BOS need to do anything 
more. 
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr K was hoping for. And I recognise Mr K expressed his 
intention to provide our service with additional comments he wanted to be considered 
following our investigators view, as he didnt think our service had answered all of his 
issues. But as these comments werent received within the reasonable time frames we 
afforded; my decision has focused on the issues I can see Mr K has discussed with our 
investigator that have been raised with BOS and commented on in BOS final responses.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms A and Mr Ks complaint about Bank of 
Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman