DRN-2780800
The complaint
Ms M has complained that Acasta European Insurance Company Limited (Acasta) rejected a 
claim she made under her motor cosmetic repair insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2020 Ms M made a claim for scratch damage to her car. Acasta said the claim 
wasnt covered under the policy due to the size of the scratch and associated damage to the 
car. It said Ms M could claim against her car insurance policy and if she did, the policy would 
cover part of the excess up to £250.
Ms M didnt want to claim under her car insurance policy  and she said she could find a . 
number of mobile mechanics to carry out the work. She said she got the scratch repaired for 
£170. 
Ms M brought her complaint to us. She wanted Acasta to cover the costs of the repair and 
pay her £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator thought Acasta had acted reasonably and in line with the policy. Ms M didnt 
agree. She doesnt believe Acasta acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
She feels Acasta looked for excuses not to meet her claim. So the case has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M has provided Acasta with a clear photo of the damage to her car. This shows scratch 
damage to the rear offside area.
Ms Ms policy with Acasta, like all insurance policies, carries exclusions. We think an insurer 
should highlight any significant exclusions to a customer. Under the Key Facts policy 
summary document, Acasta highlighted the following:
Significant features and benefits
This Policy provides You with cover for the Repair of Minor Dents, Light Scratches or 
Scuffs less than 30 (thirty) cm in diameter or 3mm in depth and for stone Chips less 
than 1.5 (one point five) mm to the Insured Vehicle occurring as a result of Day to 
Day Motoring, during the Policy Period whilst Your Vehicle is in the Territorial Limits 
and subject to these terms and conditions.
If the Repair cannot be carried out and is deemed only repairable by a body shop, a 
contribution of up to £250 towards Your motor insurance excess will be paid (on the 
production of an invoice to show the repair has been carried out and a claim has 
been made on Your motor insurance policy).
It says the following will not be covered:
e. where Our appointed repairer confirms the repair requires a body-shop repair and 
is not a Cosmetic Repair (Our appointed repairers decision is final);
I think its clear from the photo provided by Ms M that the scratch damage to her car was 
more than 30cm in diameter. So I dont think it was necessary for her car to be physically 
inspected in order for Acasta to have reached its decision. Acastas approved repairer said 
that the repair was in excess of 30cm and would require a body shop repair.
I understand Ms M may have been able to arrange repairs to her car with a mobile repairer 
And I understand Ms M is very disappointed with Acastas decision. But I think Acasta 
highlighted that it wouldnt cover repairs more than 30cm in diameter. I think the evidence 
clearly shows that the damage Ms M claimed for was excluded from cover. So I cant say 
that Acasta acted unreasonably. This means Im not asking it to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman