DRN-3483498
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) voided his insurance and kept his 
premium payments. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. West Bay has accepted our Investigators opinion, but Mr L has failed to confirm his 
acceptance or provide any further points for consideration. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill 
focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for these reasons:
On the evidence, Im not satisfied Mr L took reasonable care to avoid making a 
misrepresentation to his insurer
West Bay have provided its underwriting criteria which Im satisfied shows it wouldnt 
have insured Mr L had he declared he was unemployed, so its decision to treat it as 
a qualifying misrepresentation is fair and reasonable
All parties agree that the misrepresentation was careless rather than deliberate
West Bay should have refunded Mr Ls premiums as there is no evidence to suggest 
that any costs incurred werent already recovered
I think its clear from the evidence available that West Bay did not cause any 
unreasonable delays when notifying Mr L of its cancellation of the policy, paying Mr L 
for vehicle damages, and providing the engineers report. Mr L hasnt provided any 
further comments to dispute this since our Investigators opinion was issued
West Bay have provided evidence to confirm that the amount they received for the 
vehicle was less than the £190 outlay, so there is no further refund due on this 
element of the complaint
The cancellation fee Mr L has complained about was not charged by West Bay, and 
so wouldnt form part of the complaint against it
On this basis, I conclude that West Bay acted reasonably when voiding the policy but 
should have refunded Mr Ls premiums. West Bay have agreed.
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Mr Ls complaint
Putting things right
To put things right West Bay Insurance Plc should pay Mr L:
A refund of Mr Ls premiums from the point of renewal in November 2019
Simple interest on this amount, from the date the amount should have been paid to 
the date of settlement. The rate of interest is 8% a year  this is for Mr L being 
deprived of this sum of money over this period
HM Revenue & Customs requires West Bay Insurance Plc to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to above. West Bay Insurance Plc must give Mr L a certificate showing 
how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman