DRN-3928072
The complaint
Your text here Mr B complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) didnt make 
reasonable adjustments so he could have privacy when withdrawing cash.
What happened
In November 2022 Mr B attended a branch of Nationwide, with this daughter, to withdraw 
cash. He said he had concerns about others being able to overhear his personal details 
whilst in the branch and had previously agreed with the branch manager that he could 
conduct his banking in a private room. Mr B told us he was uneasy withdrawing a four figure 
sum of money in the open and this caused him to have a panic attack and made him feel 
agitated. 
Nationwide didnt think theyd acted inappropriately towards Mr B during the visit. So, they 
didnt uphold his complaint. They told Mr B the branch reported theyd tried to help Mr B on 
the day but were unable to see him in a private room as requested. They acknowledged he 
had a right to request reasonable adjustments due to his health conditions however this 
wasnt always possible and the reason for that may not be immediately obvious.  
Mr B referred the matter to us. Our investigator thought Nationwide hadnt done anything 
wrong here. She didnt think Nationwide had provided poor service or failed in their 
responsibility to Mr B. Mr B asked to escalate the matter to an ombudsman.
He later phoned to reiterate he had an agreement with the branch manager that there would 
always be a room available to him - he felt very unsafe withdrawing large sums of cash in an 
open office. He had many health issues which he outlined and couldnt stand at the till. He 
also said he didnt apologise to the staff at Nationwide as hed done nothing wrong. 
The matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding complaints, I concentrate on the crux of the complaint and the issues I think are 
relevant in order to reach a conclusion. That means that I might not investigate or comment 
on every issue or argument each party raises. But it doesnt mean Ive ignored them. Its 
simply that Ive decided theyre not critical to me reaching a decision.
Im sorry to hear about Mr Bs heath conditions and that these cause him to suffer anxiety. 
Theres no dispute here that these health conditions give him the right to request reasonable 
adjustments and that he asked for some on the day in question.  And its clear Nationwide 
didnt provide that on the day in question. 
Theres some confusion about whether this was due to the lack of a private room, a lack of 
staffing or concerns about Mr Bs behaviour. But I dont think this impacts on the decision 
Ive got to make. And that because - ignoring the allegations about Mr Bs behaviour - even if 
there was a room free to use there wasnt another member of staff available to cover the till 
that wouldve been left unattended by the cashier dealing with Mr B in private. As the 
investigator has said, whilst its good practice for a business to make reasonable adjustments 
for a vulnerable customer like Mr B, we wouldnt expect them to leave a till unattended to do 
this. So, it wasnt possible to comply with Mr Bs request that day.
Whilst Im not sure I agree with the suggestion Mr Bs daughter couldve dealt with his 
banking in branch with his permission, there were other options open to him as the 
investigator set out in her view. And Im not aware that the withdrawal was time sensitive and 
had to be completed that day, so the option of coming back at a different time or day when 
Nationwide could arrange for more staff to be present was possible. It seems to me it would 
have been best to try and prearrange such a visit to ensure the facilities were available to 
make the adjustments Mr B had asked for. So, Im not going to uphold the complaint about 
Mr Bs treatment on the day.
Although the branch says Mr B and his requests are known to them it seems odd to me this 
isnt reflected on his customer records as a Service Alert. I appreciate  and understand 
why - Nationwide ask for explicit consent to be given before this is recorded. But from 
everything Ive seen I cant see Nationwide have highlighted to Mr B the ability they have to 
make this note - with his consent - of these undisputed health difficulties and needs for 
reasonable adjustments on his customer records. 
In the same way it would have helped for Mr B to give advance notice of a proposed visit to 
the branch to enable to reasonable adjustments requested, I think, it would also be helpful 
for Nationwide to have drawn Mr Bs attention to this and to signpost him to their Specialist 
Support Team on their website or in branch. Theres nothing to show this was done and I 
would hope going forward this is something both parties can address. Particularly when Mr B 
says hes spoken to the branch manager about this before. And, in the lengthy calls to a 
complaint handler, which Ive listened to, Mr B reiterates a number of times his aim is to 
prevent this sort of incident happening again - which I can understand.
So, whilst Im not going to uphold this complaint, I think it would be helpful for Nationwide to 
highlight this to Mr B and see whether he wants to consent to the update of his customer 
records to take account of his anxiety and the potential for reasonable adjustments to be 
made. And, where possible, for Mr B to give advance notice of his intention to visit a branch 
and his need for reasonable adjustments to conduct his banking.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman