DRN-3521249
The complaint
Mr Y says Loans 2 Go Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about 3 loans Loans 2 Go provided to Mr Y between April and August 
2020. Mr Ys borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date taken Amount Term Repayment Repaid
1 April 2020 £600 18 Months £126.60 April 2020
2 June 2020 £1100 24 Months £181.13 July 2020
3 August 2020 £250 18 Months £57.16 June 2021
Mr Y withdrew from loan 1 within 3 days of agreeing it with Loans 2 Go. So as this is the 
case and Mr Y has not paid anything other than the capital amount he received, I have not 
looked into it. I have instead focussed on loans 2 and 3.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May 2022. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr Y 
would be able to repay loans 2 and 3 without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
Loans 2 Go has provided evidence to show that before lending to Mr Y on both occasions, it 
asked him for information about his income and expenditure. It also carried out a credit 
check. Before it agreed to give Mr Y the loans, it also verified his income. Based on those 
checks Loans 2 Go thought it was fair to agree loans 2 and 3.
I dont think the checks were proportionate on either occasion because when Loans 2 Go 
looked into Mr Ys expenditure it could see that the figure it arrived at was significantly 
different to the amounts declared by him. It had also on both occasions assessed that Mr Y 
could afford the loan repayments. But Mr Y didnt have a lot of disposable income left after 
making them. So I think Loans 2 Go ought to have wanted to assure itself that Mr Y could 
afford the repayments in a sustainable way when it assessed whether he could afford loans 
2 and 3. So I think Loans 2 Go should have taken its checks further by verifying some of the 
information Mr Y provided.
Mr Y has provided copies of his bank statements from the time leading up to Loans 2 Go 
granting loan 2. I can see that there are many gambling transactions and that it was likely he 
was having problems managing his finances. Had Loans 2 Go carried out proportionate 
checks, it would have seen that Mr Y couldnt repay loan 2. It would have seen that the 
lending was unsustainable. 
Mr Y repaid loan 2 in July 2020 and asked for loan 3 in August 2020. I dont think it is likely 
Mr Ys finances would have improved in this short period of time and so it follows that I dont 
think, based on what I have seen in the statements submitted, that it should have given Mr Y 
this loan either. 
Loans 2 Go needs to put things right.
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive also thought about whether Loans 2 Go acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Mr Y didnt respond. Loans 2 Go responded and had nothing 
further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have not made any further points. So, as neither party has anything further to 
add, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within my provisional decision. With 
that being the case, Loans 2 Go now needs to put things right. 
Putting things right  what Loans 2 Go need to do
refund all interest and charges Mr Y paid on loan 2 and 3;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 2 and 3 from Mr Ys credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go must 
give Mr Y a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ys complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to put 
things right as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman