DRN-2007245
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV). He isnt 
happy that his premium increased following a claim under his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M was unfortunately involved in an accident that wasnt his fault around the time his 
policy was due for renewal in January 2020. As Mr M had been involved in an accident LV 
revised its renewal offer which meant his premium increased. As Mr M wasnt happy about 
this he complained to LV.
LV initially mis-advised Mr M about the impact of the premium and suggested the increase 
was because he had an open claim. However, it went on to tell him the increase was caused 
by the fact he had been involved in an accident, even though it wasnt his fault. It offered him 
£50 compensation for telling him the wrong information but maintained its premium was 
correct. But Mr M remained unhappy and complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. She gained 
evidence from LV which showed Mr M had been treated the same as any other consumer in 
his position and explained that non-fault claims can affect premiums as well as fault claims. 
And she thought LVs offer of £50 compensation for its error was fair. 
Mr M maintained a non-fault claim shouldnt affect his premium. He said that LV had claimed 
all his costs back from the other side and thought it was unfair that his premiums should be 
affected. As the complaint couldnt be mediated the matter has been passed to me for 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ms frustration here. As he was involved in a non-fault claim he didnt 
think his premium (that he had already received an initial quote for) would increase. But that 
isnt how the insurance industry works and all incidents and claims can impact risk and in 
turn premium. 
This service cant tell insurers how much to charge for their policies or what risks it can and 
cant consider when deciding premiums and costs. That is a commercial decision that this 
service cannot interfere with. As Mr M has already been advised that would be a matter for 
the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) who would look at how the insurance 
industry as a whole considers such issues. But we do look at individual complaints and look 
to ensure customers, such as Mr M arent treated differently or unfairly. And Im satisfied that 
he hasnt been, Ill explain why. 
I know Mr M doesnt believe a non-fault claim can impact risk. But insurers (not just LV) have 
a lot of evidence to show that it can, even an incident that doesnt require any action or result 
in a claim can affect risk. This is because insurers can show that people who have been 
involved in incidents, non-fault claims and fault claims risk increases to varying degrees. And 
they have evidence to support this and they use such factors alongside driving history, 
postal codes, age of consumers and a number of other factors to determine risk. As long as 
they do this consistently and treat everyone in a similar position the same, then this service 
doesnt interfere.
So, Ive looked at how LV calculated Mr Ms premium, taking account of the risk and the fact 
he had just been involved in a non-fault accident and I can see this has resulted in a small 
increase in premium. I know Mr M would like the increase in premium returned, but Im 
satisfied LV has acted fairly and treated him the same as any other consumer wouldve been 
in his position. I know Mr M would like to see the data LV has provided but this is 
commercially sensitive. But I have checked over the data and Im satisfied it is accurate, and 
that LV has acted in line with its general guidelines, just as other insurers would act in line 
with theirs. 
It is of note that Mr M couldve shopped around to gain a more competitive insurance quote if 
he wished, even after LV explained it gave him incorrect advice when he questioned the 
updated quotation. And Im satisfied LVs offer of £50 compensation covers the stress and 
inconvenience that Mr M was caused by its poor advice and so Im not asking it to do 
anything further here. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman