DRN-3309801
The complaint
Mr M complains that XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited (XLC) declined his claim
against his travel insurance policy. Reference to XLC includes its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in June 2019, Mr M bought an annual travel policy which is
underwritten by XLC.
I understand that Mr M departed for his trip, as planned, on 15 February 2020 and that his 
intended return date was 31 March 2020. Part of Mr Ms trip was a chartered excursion from 
14 March 2020 to 25 March 2020.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared covid-19 a pandemic.  
Mr M says that on 14 March 2020, he began the chartered excursion. On 15 March 2020, 
the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advised against all but essential 
travel to Mr Ms destination country and on 17 March 2020, it advised against all but 
essential travel abroad.
Mr M has provided documentation from the chartered excursion provider which says that on 
18 March 2020, its government instructed it to return to the mainland and subsequently 
closed tourist attractions. So, Mr Ms excursion ended early.
Mr M had difficulty arranging a return flight but began his return trip on 20 March 2020 and 
returned home on 21 March 2020. On 23 March 2020, the FCDO advised all UK tourists 
abroad to return home.
Mr M said that he had to curtail his trip due to government warnings and the general shutting 
down of global travel in March 2020. He said that whilst he was abroad and making 
decisions about his travel plans, he checked his policy documents and XLCs website. Mr M 
says that the website said that policies bought before 13 February 2020, provided cover for 
trips cut short in the circumstances that arose here. Mr M has quoted what he saw online 
and provided screen shots.
Mr M made a claim against his policy in relation to the unused days of the excursion and the 
additional costs of his return flights. XLC declined Mr Ms claim. It said that Mr Ms policy 
doesnt cover what happened here. XLC said that the website to which Mr M referred didnt 
provide any details about his policy, so whilst it wasnt as clear as it could be, it was clear 
from the frequently asked questions section that there was no cover for claims arising out of 
Covid-19.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that whilst what happened 
here isnt one of the insured events under the policy, in the particular circumstances of this 
case, its fair and reasonable for XLC to deal with Mr Ms claim. That was because an 
exclusion in the policy meant that Mr M wouldnt be covered whether he continued his trip or 
curtailed it.
Mr M said that his main complaint is about the information on the website when he was 
making decisions about what to do.
XLC didnt agree with the investigator. It said that what happened here isnt covered by the 
policy and that theres an exclusion in relation to prohibitive government regulations. XLC 
said that the terms of the policy are clear and unambiguous. It asked that an ombudsman 
consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
On 13 January 2022, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I indicated 
that I didnt propose to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I said:
Industry rules and guidance
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly, and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The relevant documentation
Ive considered the policy terms and conditions and the Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID) in this case. An IPID is designed to give consumers a summary of certain 
information about a policy in a way that is easy to understand. This includes excluded risks. 
The IPID which relates to Mr Ms policy says:
X What is not insured? 
[]
x Claims arising from the prohibitive regulations by the government of any country.
[]
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy set out the insured events leading to 
cancellation or curtailment of a trip. The investigator set out the insured events in her view, 
so I wont repeat them here. The insured events dont cover changes to FCDO advice or a 
pandemic. The policy also says:
What you are NOT covered for
[]
7. claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the government of any 
country; 
[]
13. disinclination to travel or continue travelling, unless your change of travel plans 
is caused by one of the circumstances listed under What you are covered for;
[].
has the claim been declined unfairly?
I dont propose to uphold Mr Ms complaint because I dont think that XLC treated him 
unfairly in declining his claim. I say that because:Neither cutting a trip short due to a change in FCDO advice nor cutting it short 
because of a pandemic are specific, listed, insured events for which curtailment 
cover is provided. So, Mr Ms claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions 
of his policy.
The government of Mr Ms destination country restricted activities and closed 
tourist attractions. There were concerns about the rapidly changing situation in 
relation to Covid-19 and the availability of return flights. The pandemic and the 
situation in the country Mr M was in were no doubt concerning. Mr Ms decision to 
curtail his trip was entirely understandable but what happened here isnt covered 
by the policy. Theres no cover under the policy for cutting short a trip due to a 
change in FCDO advice and, in any event, Mr M returned home before the FCDO 
advised all UK citizens to return home.
Ive also looked at the remaining sections of Mr Ms insurance policy, but I dont 
think he held any cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances he found 
himself in.
The FCDO advice changed on 23 March 2020, when UK tourists were advised to 
return home. That was shortly after Mr M returned to the UK on 21 March 2020, 
but before his planned return date of 31 March 2020. So, Ive considered whether 
it would be fair and reasonable to direct XLC to cover Mr Ms claim for the unused 
and additional costs after the advice from the FCDO changed on 23 March 2020.
There are some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly 
and transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy exclusions, I might 
think its fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy 
terms and conditions. However, I dont think thats the case here and Ill explain 
why.
Mr Ms policy contains an exclusion in relation to claims arising from prohibitive 
regulations by the government of any country. This was set out in the cancellation 
and curtailment section of the policy and in the IPID, both of which Ive set out 
above.
Its hard to say with any certainty that there was one specific reason for Mr Ms 
claim. I think a combination of factors  the spread of Covid-19, the actions of the 
overseas government in limiting activities and FCDO advice  are all likely to have 
impacted to some degree on the curtailment of Mr Ms trip. In the particular 
circumstances here, I think its likely the exclusion relating to prohibitive regulations 
would apply to the circumstances of Mr Ms claim. I dont think its unfair or 
unreasonable for XLC to rely on that exclusion in this case.
Ive considered what Mr M said about the information on the website he consulted 
when he was making decisions about how to proceed. The information hes quoted 
relates to policies underwritten by another insurer, not XLC. Mr M believed that the 
information related to his policy but that wasnt in fact the case. I dont think that 
XLC was responsible for Mr Ms misunderstanding.
XLC has said that the information online could have been clearer and that its now 
put that right. These were unprecedented times and events were changing fast. I 
dont think I can fairly say that XLC should pay Mr Ms claim because it didnt show 
information about his specific policy online.Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I dont think his claim is covered under the terms 
and conditions of his policy and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds 
upon which I could fairly ask XLC to accept his claim.
 
Response to my provisional decision
Mr M didnt agree with my provisional decision. He said, in summary:
He made the right decision to return home and should be compensated.
He read this policy and several others to ensure his requirements were met.
He referred to the information that was available to him, including information on 
the website that was misleading.
This was a stressful and time-sensitive situation and he made the correct 
decision to return home. 
The terms and conditions are complex and unclear. 
If hed remained abroad and required medical treatment his claim would have 
been greater. 
An insurer should protect the policyholder against the unexpected. 
XLC didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considerable sympathy for the situation Mr M found himself in. I dont doubt that this was 
a very worrying time. As I said in my provisional decision, Mr Ms decision to curtail his trip 
was entirely understandable. But that doesnt mean that what happened here is covered by 
the policy.
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An insurer will 
decide what risks it is willing to cover and set these out in the terms and conditions of the 
policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that their claim falls under one of the
agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is covered in principle but is declined 
on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy the onus shifts to the insurer to show how 
that exclusion applies.
Here, cutting short a trip due to a change in FCDO advice or because of a pandemic arent 
insured events for which curtailment cover is provided. And, in any event, I think that XLC 
can fairly rely on the exclusion in relation to claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the 
government of any country. I dont agree that the terms and conditions of the policy are 
complex or unclear. 
Mr M says that if hed stayed abroad, his claim may have been greater. But Im looking at the 
claim he actually made and considering whether XLC acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining it. For the reasons I set out in my provisional decision and above, I dont think that 
it treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably, so Im not upholding his complaint. For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.  
Louise Povey
Ombudsman