DRN-4282277
The complaint
Mr C complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has failed to correctly apply some 
pension contributions to his pension plan. And he says that Aviva agreed to not deduct any 
administration charges from those payments following its errors.
What happened
Mr C holds pension savings with Aviva. He made personal contributions to his pension plan 
between April 2015 and March 2017. And Mr Cs employer has made regular and one-off 
contributions to his pension plan since March 2015.
Mr Cs employer made a large one-off pension contribution in March 2022. However Aviva 
failed to add that contribution to Mr Cs pension plan. It later discovered that the payment 
had been added to another pension plan in error. And Avivas investigations around the 
missing payment identified that another payment, made by Mr Cs employer in March 2015 
had also failed to be correctly applied.
Mr C discussed the errors with Aviva during a phone call. Aviva assured Mr C that the 
payments would be applied to his pension plan, and backdated to ensure that he didnt miss 
out on any investment growth. And it told him that he wouldnt pay any charges on the 
payments in respect of the remediation activities that Aviva needed to undertake.
Aviva corrected Mr Cs pension account and provided him with details of the additional units 
that had been purchased with the missing payments. And it paid Mr C £500 for the 
inconvenience hed been caused  I understand the cheque for that compensation was 
initially returned unpaid to Mr Cs bank, but was subsequently reissued to him in May 2023. 
But Mr C wasnt satisfied that Aviva had correctly applied the missing payments. And he said 
his understanding was that Aviva had said it would waive its normal administration charges 
for the misapplied payments. So he brought his complaint to us.
Mr Cs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She thought that the 
information Aviva had provided was sufficient to show that the missing payments had been 
corrected. And having listened to the relevant phone call she didnt think that Aviva had 
agreed to waive any administration charges for the payments  it just said that Mr C wouldnt 
pay any further charges for the remediation work. The investigator thought that the £500 
Aviva had paid to Mr C for his inconvenience was sufficient. So she didnt think that Mr Cs 
complaint should be upheld.
Mr C didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr C and by Aviva. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I have looked at the steps Aviva has taken to add the missing payments to Mr Cs pension 
plan. It seems to me that its actions have been appropriate  determining the number of 
investment units those contributions would have purchased at the relevant date, and adding 
those to Mr Cs pension investments. So I am satisfied that Avivas corrective actions mean 
Mr C hasnt been directly disadvantaged as a result of its errors.
But there is no doubt that errors of this nature will be concerning for Mr C. He had failed to 
identify that the payment in 2015 had gone astray. So if nothing had gone wrong with the 
later payment it is possible that the earlier error would never have been identified. That is a 
serious failing, and no doubt something that Aviva will take steps to identify the root cause of 
and take action to prevent any future reoccurrence. But that is a matter for Aviva and its 
regulator to resolve. I am satisfied that in terms of this complaint Mr Cs pension plan now 
correctly reflects the contributions he has said have been made by him and his employer.
I have listened carefully to a recording of the phone conversation Mr C had with Aviva when 
the missing payments and rectification activities were discussed. Mr C says that during that 
call Aviva agreed to waive its normal administration charges in relation to the missing 
payments.
I am sorry to tell Mr C that I dont agree with his recollections of the call. The assurance that 
Aviva gave to Mr C during the call was that he wouldnt incur any administration charges as 
a result of its rectification activities. And Ive not seen anything to suggest that Avivas 
rectification activities have caused Mr C to be charged more than he would have been had 
nothing gone wrong.
Mr C has said that he doesnt think he should pay Aviva for administering his pension 
contributions when it has so clearly failed to correctly undertake that work. But had nothing 
gone wrong, Aviva would have deducted those charges before adding Mr Cs pension 
contributions. Here, Avivas rectification activities have effectively placed Mr C back into the 
position he would have been had nothing gone wrong. So for the same reasons I think it 
reasonable that Aviva should collect the administration charges that would otherwise have 
been due.
Mr C has explained that he has needed to spend a significant amount of time dealing with 
these errors. He says that the £500 that Aviva has paid to him is insufficient to compensate 
him for the time he has needed to spend, and the lost income as a result. I have thought 
carefully about what Mr C has said. And I have borne in mind what I would usually consider 
to be reasonable compensation for inconvenience in situations such as these.
As our investigator has explained, it isnt unusual for consumers to need to spend some time 
making their complaint, and if needed, referring it to us. It isnt generally appropriate to ask 
businesses to provide compensation for the time that has been spent by a consumer on making their complaint. And it would be very unusual to require a business to pay 
compensation based on the professional charging rates of a consumer in their normal 
employment.
I appreciate that my conclusions will be disappointing for Mr C, but I think the compensation 
he has already been paid by Aviva is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. I think the work Aviva has done to reallocate the two missing payments has put 
Mr C back into the exact position he would have been if nothing had gone wrong. And I dont 
think it unreasonable that Aviva collects its normal administration charges from Mr Cs 
pension investments.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman