DRN-3152300
The complaint
Ms A complains about the settlement Admiral Insurance Company Limited offered for her 
cars total loss after a claim made on her motor insurance policy. She wants this increased 
and consideration of the impact the dispute has had for her. Ms A is represented in this 
matter by her friend, Mr R, a named driver on the policy. 
What happened
Ms A is a named driver on her mothers policy and is the beneficiary of Admirals settlement. 
Ms As car was written off following an accident and Admiral offered her its market value in 
settlement of her claim. When Ms A said this was too low, Admiral commissioned a bespoke 
valuation and offered her £6,035, less the policy excess. Ms A remained unhappy as this 
was less than the value stated on her policy and because she couldnt replace her car with a 
similar one for this offer.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Admiral 
was required by the policys terms and conditions to pay Ms A the cars market value at the 
time of its loss. And he thought it had offered Ms A more than this. So he didnt think it 
needed to do anything further. 
Mr R replied that he thought the valuation hadnt taken into account the cars immaculate 
condition and low mileage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Ms A wants a fair offer in settlement of her claim for the loss of her car. 
Ms A has told us that the stress of this situation has had an effect on her health. I was sorry 
to hear about that and the other consequences the situation has had for her. 
I can see that Ms As policy provides for the cars market value in the case of its loss. Some 
policies, in the case of rare or classic cars, have an agreed value. But this isnt the case with 
Ms As policy. The cars value stated on the policy schedule doesnt mean that the car is 
insured for that amount. The policys terms and conditions clearly state that the most Admiral 
will pay is the cars market value.
The investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
I can see that our investigator checked the guides we use for cars of the same make, model, 
age, mileage and condition as Ms As car at the date of its loss. No deductions were made 
for condition or service history. One valuation was out of step with the others, so he asked 
this guide for a bespoke valuation, in keeping with our approach. 
The results of the valuation checks made by our investigator were significantly lower than 
the final offer made by Admiral. So I think Admirals offer was fair and reasonable and I dont 
require it to increase this. 
Mr R provided examples of similar cars advertised for higher prices. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices. 
I can understand that this has been a difficult and stressful episode for Ms A. But as Im 
satisfied that Admiral acted fairly and reasonably and in keeping with the policys terms and 
conditions in settling Ms As claim, I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman