DRN-3452747
The complaint
Mr Ns representative, his wife and Power of Attorney (POA), complains on his behalf that 
he was given unsuitable investment advice by Lloyds Bank PLC. 
She is being assisted by a Claims Management Company (CMC). In summary, the CMC 
says:
Mr N was emotionally vulnerable at the time and shouldnt have been advised to 
invest. 
It was a difficult time for him, following his separation from his previous wife, and 
having to move into rented accommodation. 
He had very little investment experience and the portfolio was too high risk for an 
inexperienced investor.  
What happened
In February 2007, Mr N was advised to invest £500,000 in the Investment Portfolio Service 
(referred to as IPS or the portfolio) with a balanced profile, which started in May 2007. 
The portfolio aimed to achieve long term growth by investing in a range of diversified 
collective funds  45% invested in UK equities, 45% invested in bonds, 5% invested in 
property and 5% invested in overseas equities. 
In summary, it was recorded that: 
Mr N was still (technically) married but separated. He and his ex-wife both had new 
partners and had a friendly working relationship. 
He was in permanent employment and in good health. 
He had an annual income of around £73,000 and a surplus income of around £746 a 
year. 
He had lump sum cash deposits of £500,000, £240,000, and £84,000 (for 
emergencies) in separate savings/current accounts.   
The funds were from the sale of a property  sold for £2.5 million  in which Mr N 
received £1 million.
His objective was capital growth in the medium to long term and he was prepared to 
invest globally for a term of five to ten years. 
He was concerned about taking too much of his own time and wanted to benefit from 
one point of contact and a dedicated bank manager. 
He confirmed that he wouldnt need access to his funds during the investment period. 
In December 2011, Mr N surrendered the investment early and received £486,135. It 
appears he surrendered the investment to purchase a property. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary he said:
Hes unable to safely say that Mr N was given unsuitable investment advice or that 
he was advised to take too much risk. 
Mr N had a disposable income after his monthly expenditure and had access to a 
reasonable cash reserve put aside for emergencies. He also had significant cash 
savings.
The investment was maintained for just over four years which would suggest that 
there were no affordability issues. 
Mr N retired early, but the portfolio was closed after Mr N was expected to retire. And 
it was surrendered earlier than expected to purchase a property, which wasnt 
planned. 
Mr N retired and started to show signs of dementia, but the fact find shows that he 
was in good health at the point of sale and doesnt mention any health concerns. 
Theres no reason why Mr N shouldnt have been advised to invest at that point and it 
would be unfair to hold Lloyds responsible for anything that happened afterwards.  
Overall, the investment was suitable, and the level of risk was in line with his attitude 
to risk and goal. 
Mr N wanted capital growth and to beat inflation, so some risk wouldve been 
necessary.   
In response to the investigators view, the CMC said Mr Ns wife isnt satisfied with the 
investigators view and wants an ombudsmans decision. She provided no further material 
points.   
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to safely say that the 
recommendation was unsuitable for Mr N. 
The CMC has provided submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope that Mr N (and his wife) wont take the fact my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by the CMC, and Lloyds, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, I think the advice 
to invest in the portfolio was broadly suitable for Mr N. I note that he was in his mid-60s, 
recently separated (in the process of a divorce) and in permanent employment with a 
reasonable income and net monthly disposable income. I note he had a total of £824,000 in savings, having received a £1 million lump sum from the 
sale of his property (sold for £2.5 million)  its not clear what he did (if anything) with the 
balance of just over £250,000 or where he was living at the time  although its not clear 
from the papers its possible Mr N was living with his new partner or renting, neither of which 
is unusual. I note he had no financial dependents, debts or liabilities and wanted investment 
advice regarding £740,000 from which he was advised to invest only £500,000  half of what 
he received from the sale of the previous property.   
Its fair to say that certain questions were asked of Mr N to arrive at the conclusion that he 
was a balanced risk investor. On balance, Im satisfied that Mr Ns risk appetite was 
discussed and that he was willing to take a balanced risk with a portion of his money to meet 
his objective on this occasion. It could be argued that a balanced risk was reasonable given 
his goal to get better returns over the medium to long term.  for a term of five to ten 
years. 
I note Mr N answered Strongly Agree to the following questions:
The stability of my money is more important to me than the return I may have. 
I am concerned about the impact of inflation on my money over the medium to long 
term and am prepared to take a risk to compensate for this. 
Mr N also answered Strongly Disagree to the following question:
Keeping my money intact is more important to me than the impact of inflation on it.
I want the best opportunity for log-term returns even if this means significant ups and 
downs in the value during the investment term. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im satisfied that 
Mr Ns risk appetite was reasonably considered and that he was recommended a product 
that carried no more risk than he was willing to take and the recommendation met his key 
objective for capital growth. 
Im aware that a suitability letter is no longer on file, and that a key features document isnt 
available for the portfolio. Given the length of time  almost 15 years since the sale of the 
portfolio and almost 12 years since it was surrendered early  Im not surprised the business 
doesnt have more documentation available. Businesses arent required to retain information 
indefinitely, so its something I cant blame Lloyds for. 
On balance Im satisfied that the key policy documentation provided  including the profile 
breakdown  made reasonably clear the nature and operation of the investment. In any 
case, theres nothing to suggest that Mr N couldnt take a balanced risk approach or even 
higher if thats what he wanted to do with his money. 
I note that Mr N might be unhappy with the returns upon surrender, but Ive seen no 
evidence to suggest that he was given any guarantees about the level of return. Just 
because he didnt receive a better return doesnt mean the recommendation was unsuitable. 
I note Mr N was invested for nearly four years  which doesnt suggest that there were any 
affordability issues. I also note he surrendered early to purchase a house  but did so of his 
own volition, without any advice from Lloyds. Despite what the CMC says, theres no record 
of this being an issue at the point of sale. On the contrary, I note it was recorded that Mr N 
wouldnt need access to the funds for the duration of the investment, that his financial 
situation was unlikely to change, and that he had £84,000 for emergencies. In the circumstances, Im unable to blame Lloyds for Mr N having to surrender the investment early 
in order to purchase a property.  
Despite what the CMC says about Mr Ns health, I note he confirmed that he was in good 
health (and working at the time). In other words, no issues were raised with regards to how 
he was feeling about his separation and subsequent divorce apart from getting on well with 
his ex-wife.  
If any information recorded on the fact find was incorrect or incomplete  and Mr N 
disagreed with his attitude to risk or priorities  he ought reasonably to have raised this with 
the adviser at the time, and not signed the relevant forms confirming the information was 
correct. 
Im mindful that an adviser can only advise based on the information provided, so if Mr N had 
concerns about investing for a medium to long term when he was planning to purchase a 
property, he ought reasonably to have made this clear at the time. But the fact that he didnt 
raise this, suggests it wasnt an issue or priority during the term of the investment. 
If, for whatever reason, Mr N wasnt comfortable raising an issue at the time  although Ive 
seen no evidence that he was  he still had the option to change his mind during the cooling 
off period.
I appreciate Mr N (and his wife) will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator. Whilst I appreciate their frustration, Im not going to ask 
Lloyds to do anything. On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to 
uphold this complaint and give Mr N what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman