DRN-3823647
The complaint
Miss B complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC will not refund the money she lost after 
falling victim to a romance scam.
What happened
The details of this scam are well known to both parties and were set out in my provisional 
decision, so I wont repeat them in full here. Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on 
giving reasons for my decision. 
In February 2021, Miss B made three payments totalling just over £4,600 from her credit 
card account to a cryptocurrency payment processing firm. Miss B thought she was paying 
this money to help her partner who shed recently connected with whilst using an online 
dating app. Unfortunately, Miss B was really interacting with a fraudster who was deceiving 
her. 
I issued my provisional decision on 15 November 2022. In it, I explained why I didnt intend 
to uphold Miss Bs complaint. An extract of that decision is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at what I think is the heart of the matter here, which is whether Tesco should
have done more to prevent Miss Bs loss. Having thought very carefully about Tescos
actions, Im not able to uphold this complaint. I know this is not the outcome Miss B was
hoping for. Im mindful that she has lost a lot of money to the scam and that she has been
left with an outstanding balance to repay on her credit card. But in weighing everything up,
I am unable to fairly say Tesco is responsible for refunding some or all of the loss. Ill explain
why.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that Tesco is expected to process payments
that its customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the
customers account. Theres no debate that Miss B authorised the payments in dispute. At
the time she sent the money, Miss B wanted the payments to be made. Although she did not
realise at this time she was being tricked, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017
(which are the relevant regulations that apply here), Miss B is presumed liable for the loss in
the first instance.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and
guidance, any relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time, I consider Tesco should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average
customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Ive thought about whether Tesco ought to have questioned whether Miss B was at risk of
financial harm and intervened before allowing these payments to go through. Looking at the
way Miss Bs credit card account typically ran, these transactions are out of the ordinary
compared to her usual spending habits. But Im not persuaded the transactions were so out
of character that Tesco should have immediately suspected Miss B was at risk of financial
harm from fraud.
Tesco sent Miss B a text message to make sure the first transaction was genuine. Ive
listened to a recording of the short call Miss B had with Tesco late in the evening on
11 February. She tells the operative she was trying to make a payment that wasnt going
through. She was unable to pass security, so the operative suggests the quickest way to
make the payment would be to respond to the text message to confirm it is a genuine
transaction she wanted to make. There was nothing discussed about the purpose of the
payment and most of the conversation was about how Miss B could reset her security
questions and answers.
Miss B spoke to Tesco again the following morning. She told the operative shed been trying
to make transactions the night before but didnt know if they had all gone through or not. At
this point, Tescos advisor explains that Miss B hadnt been charged for the previous
transactions that shed attempted and suggests that she can process the transactions again
if she still wishes to make them. Ive thought very carefully about this interaction and whether
it should have gone further than it did. Miss Bs loss could have been avoided if the scam
had been uncovered at this point. The call lasted a little over seven minutes in total and
Tesco didnt ask Miss B any questions about who she was paying and why. But Im not
persuaded that Tesco missed a clear opportunity to stop Miss B losing money to the scam.
This was a credit card account and people can and do use credit cards for larger
transactions than they would typically make day to day. The size of the payments Miss B
wanted to make didnt stand out as an obvious scam risk in and of themselves. The
transactions were also within Miss Bs available credit limit. Miss B spoke with confidence
and control in this call. At this point, there was no clear indication that she was uneasy about
the situation or the payments she was making. Im also not persuaded that there was
enough happening that Tesco, with its far superior knowledge of what scams can look and
feel like, should have suspected that something was potentially amiss. In these
circumstances, I cant fairly expect Tesco to have questioned Miss B further about the
payments she then went on to make.
There are many millions of card payments made each day and it would not be possible or
reasonable to expect a payment services provider to check each one. Theres a balance to
be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent  and then
responding appropriately to any concerns  and ensuring minimal disruption to legitimate
payments. Looking at all of the circumstances as they were at that point in time, I dont think
it was unreasonable for Tesco not to have identified that Miss B was in the midst of a scam.
This means that I cant fairly say that Tesco ought to have done more than it did and further
challenged the payments Miss B was making to find out more about them. I dont think the
payments or the wider circumstances stood out enough for me to fairly say that Tesco
should have identified that Miss B was at risk of financial harm from fraud.Its clear that the situation evolved. The nature of the conversations Miss B had on
15 February were very different. She sounded very uneasy and wanted Tescos advice and
support. Miss B did not go on to make any further payments, but Ive thought about whether
there was anything more Tesco could or should have done at this point to help her once it
was on notice that something was not right. But card payments are a guaranteed form of
payment once theyve been authorised. This means that there was nothing Tesco could
have done to stop or cancel them. This would still be the case even if the transactions were
still pending and had not yet been applied to the account.
Ive thought about whether Tesco could have done anything to recover the money that had
been paid. The money went to a legitimate cryptocurrency platform and then was sent on
from there. But I dont think a chargeback or a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer
Credit Act 1974 would have had any reasonable prospect of success because the
cryptocurrency firm had provided its service.
I recognise that Miss B has been left with a debt to repay because of this scam. If she begins
to experience financial difficulties, she should contact Tesco to discuss her circumstances.
Tesco must treat a customer experiencing financial difficulty sympathetically, with
forbearance and due consideration. This can involve additional support measures such as
suspending or waiving interest, accepting lower repayments or allowing a customer more
time to repay what they owe.
I am sorry to have to deliver such disappointing news to Miss B. Shes already been through
a lot and Im particularly mindful that my proposed outcome is less favourable than the
position our Investigator reached. But as Tesco did not make any errors by processing the
payments when it did and there are unfortunately no recovery options available in these
circumstances, I cannot fairly and reasonably say Tesco has any responsibility for refunding
this loss.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Tesco responded to my provisional decision and said it had nothing new to add.
Miss B responded and explained that she was very disappointed with the outcome. She 
pointed out that when she first reported the fraud to Tesco, the employee she spoke with 
was very sympathetic to the scam and acknowledged that it was a common type of fraud. 
Miss B said that if Tesco knew this is how scams happen, it should have identified the 
pattern and questioned her before the transactions were made. She thought Tesco was at 
fault for not identifying the fraud and doing more to protect her. She felt strongly that the 
transactions should have been stopped. 
She concluded by saying that she was going to have to work to reduce the debt on the credit 
card without any help from Tesco because she did not want any record on her credit file that 
could in turn impact her employment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Miss B said in response to my provisional decision. Theres 
no doubt that she has been the victim of a very cruel scam. Shes been tricked by a person 
who deliberately misled her about their intentions in order to take money from her. She has 
been left to pick up the pieces, both emotionally and financially, and I dont underestimate how difficult this has been and continues to be, as Miss B has been left with a credit card 
debt. 
I understand that Miss B considers Tesco has let her down. Her position is that it didnt 
appropriately safeguard her when she made the payments, causing her to go on and suffer a 
loss that could have been avoided.  
With the benefit of hindsight, we now know that the payments Miss B was making were 
going to a fraudster. But as I explained in my provisional decision, when Miss B started to 
send the money, the situation wouldnt have been obvious to Tesco. Having reviewed the 
matter afresh in light of Miss Bs comments, I still dont think the payments she was making 
displayed sufficient risk factors of potentially fraudulent activity. This means I am unable to 
fairly conclude that Tesco let Miss B down by failing to identify and challenge these 
payments at the time.  
I am sorry to hear of whats happened. This isnt an outcome that Ive reached lightly and Im 
mindful that it will have ongoing financial consequences for Miss B. But my role as an 
Ombudsman is limited to determining whether Tesco should take responsibility for Miss Bs 
financial loss. For the reasons Ive explained both here and in my provisional decision (which 
is outlined above and forms part of this final decision), I cant see that Tesco should have 
done more to intervene when the payments were being made. Having carefully considered 
the matter, Im also not persuaded that there are any other grounds on which Tesco can 
fairly and reasonably be held responsible for refunding this loss. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman