DRN-1463284
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) gave him loans 
irresponsibly.                         
What happened
This complaint is about 47 loans Sunny provided to Mr M between January 2016 and August 
2018. The amounts borrowed ranged between £50 and £400.
Heres a table showing details of the first six loans: 
 
Loan 
Date
Taken 
Date
Repaid 
Instalments 
AmountHighest*
 
Repayment
122/01/2016 26/02/2016 6 400 £121.40
214/03/2016 28/06/2016 6 300 £80.55
318/03/2016 23/05/2016 6 100 £111.67
420/05/2016 28/10/2016 6 150 £158.18
517/06/2016 28/10/2016 6 150 £166.90
604/07/2016 28/10/2016 6 100 £114.88
*this shows the amount of combined repayments where loans overlap
Mr M said that the lending wasnt affordable for him and Sunny shouldve realised this. Mr M 
told us that Sunny shouldve seen from its credit checks that hed been overusing payday 
loans and it ought not to have provided these loans to him.
Our adjudicator investigated and came to the overall view that whilst loans 1-5 hadnt been 
unfair, the pattern of lending itself showed that from loan 6 onwards the borrowing was 
unsustainable  so Sunny shouldnt have given Mr M loan 6 or any of the loans that 
followed. Our adjudicator set out the steps he felt Sunny should take to put things right for 
Mr M.Sunny didnt agree with everything our adjudicator said but put forward an alternative 
settlement offer. Sunny said it would agree to uphold Mr Ms complaint from loan 15 
onwards.
Sunny sent details showing how it worked out the refund it was willing to pay to settle Mr Ms 
complaint. We passed this information on to Mr M but it hasnt led to the complaint being 
settled. 
So the complaint comes to me to make a final decision.
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Looking at the repayments that Mr M needed to make on loans 1-4, the amounts wouldve 
seemed relatively affordable compared with the disposable income hed declared. Given 
these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ms circumstances at the time, and 
his borrowing history with Sunny, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Sunny to 
ask Mr M for the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable before agreeing the first four loans. 
I think Sunny should have looked further into Mr Ms circumstances when he took out loan 5, 
given that loans 2 and 4 were still running and he took out loan 5 less than a month after 
repaying loan 3. However, I havent seen anything in the information available to me which 
shows Sunny would have decided not to agree this loan had it done so. 
So I agree with our adjudicator about the first five loans  and as it seems Mr M hasnt 
objected to what our adjudicator has said, then I don't think I need say more about loans 1-5. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr M, with a view to seeing if 
there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ms case, I think by loan 6 Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was likely to be unsustainable and it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. I say this because at this point Sunny ought to have 
realised:
Mr M was not managing to repay his loans sustainably. Since January 2016 he had 
taken out 6 loans in around 6 months or so 
 
although he repaid his loans earlier than the agreed term, successfully repaying his 
loans doesnt mean Mr M managed to do so in a sustainable way. And borrowing and 
repaying this number of loans early suggests to me that Mr Ms finances were not in 
a stable position.
 
Mr M took out loan 3 just 4 days after loan 2 started  and before hed made any 
repayments made on loan 2  and these loans together came to the same amount as 
loan 1 which hed only recently repaid
 
when he took loan 4, this meant he had three outstanding loans (loans 2, 3 and 4)
 
when he took loan 5, this meant he had three outstanding loans (loans 2, 4 and 5)
 and when he took loan 6, he still had three outstanding loans (loans 4, 5 and 6)
 
so it wasnt reasonable of Sunny to think his situation had improved and Mr M was 
now asking to borrow because of a new need for a short term loan - rather this 
pattern of borrowing suggested he had ongoing money problems 
 
Sunny ought to have realised it was more likely that Mr M was borrowing further to 
cover the hole repaying previous loans was leaving in his finances and that Mr Ms 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. 
 
Ive carefully considered everything Sunny has said, including its response to our 
adjudicators view. For the reasons Ive explained, I think Sunny shouldve seen that Mr Ms 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably by the time he took out loan 6  and it shouldve 
realised then that it was unfair to continue to lending to him. 
I think that Mr M lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time. 
 
the number of loans which Mr M borrowed was likely to have negative implications on 
Mr Ms ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans. And any further borrowing was likely to be detrimental to his credit 
rating.
 
So Im upholding the complaint about loans 6 through to 47 and Sunny should put things 
right. 
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 6 - 47, not including anything it has already refunded.
 
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr M which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr M originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C. Pay Mr M the total of "A" plus "B".
 
D. The overall pattern of Mr Ms borrowing from the point of loan 6 means any 
information recorded about this loan and the loans that followed is adverse. So all 
entries about loans 6  47 should be removed from Mr Ms credit file.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint about loans 6 - 47. Elevate 
Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) should pay Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman