DRN-3195550
The complaint
Miss K complains that MS Amlin Insurance SE unfairly declined a claim she made on her 
boat insurance policy.
What happened
Miss K had repairs carried out to her boat, and afterwards, she made a claim for some of the 
repair costs. In respect of the damage and repairs claimed for, she explained water had 
entered from behind the control panel and damaged the wall and ceiling.
MS Amlin appointed a surveyor, who spoke to the boatyard that completed the repairs. Due 
to the description of the damage, the surveyor concluded it had occurred gradually as a 
result of rainwater ingress.
MS Amlin declined Miss Ks claim. It noted her policy covers accidental loss or damage, but 
it excludes loss or damage as a result of: 
- a gradual deterioration, unless the damage couldnt have been prevented by 
servicing or maintenance;
- an incursion of water, unless sudden and unforeseen, or accidental; and 
- a gradual accumulation of rainwater or snow in or on the vessel, unless resulting 
from sudden, rare and extreme weather conditions.
MS Amlin also noted the policy terms required Miss K to notify the claim before the repairs 
were carried out, and it said Miss K had prejudiced its investigation by having the repairs 
completed first. 
Miss K noted the roof was replaced in 2016; and repainted in 2018. She said it isnt normal 
that deterioration took place in such a short space of time. Miss K said, given the boat had 
been properly maintained, the damage was accidental. Miss K also thought the damage 
must have occurred because of sudden, rare and extreme weather conditions. 
Miss K also said that whilst the plywood roof had delaminated, it wasnt rotten. She provided 
an email from the boatyard, which stated the following: 
- When we investigated the water damage on your aft coach roof we found that the 
plywood had delaminated due to water ingress through the fibreglass sheathing. As 
the roof was relatively new was not expected. Although it was not rotten it had 
suffered from delamination and water staining which had entered from the top 
of the aft bulkhead.
Miss K also made the point that MS Amlin had accepted the claim for consideration. So, she 
didnt consider it relevant that the repairs had already been completed before the claim was 
made. Miss K also said the surveyor had spoken to junior staff at the boatyard, and an 
individual who hadnt undertaken work on her boat.
MS Amlin made the following points:
- The surveyor referred to rot because the repair invoice stated: The floor, supporting 
members, sub floor and everything under the floor had rotted away to dust.
- There hadnt been an accident. But rather, its clear that the cause of the damage 
was gradual rainwater ingress over a long period. Whilst Miss K is differentiating 
between delamination and rot, both are gradual deterioration.
- Masking tape had been placed over the sheaf. The boatyard has since explained that 
Miss K had applied the tape to seal the cracks in the sheathing, to stop the rainwater 
ingress. The boatyard says the tape was applied before its inspection.
- The surveyor had spoken to one of the boatyards skilled craftsmen that undertook 
the repairs. He also spoke to the principal of the company, who was fully aware of 
the works being carried out.
- Whilst Miss Ks photos show the interior was maintained excellently, the only photo 
provided of the pre-repaired roof was taken at distance.
- Based on the information available, the surveyors opinion is the sheathing had 
deteriorated to such an extent it no longer provided a watertight covering. 
Miss K remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to this service.
Miss K says the boatyard told her to apply the masking tape until it could take the boat for 
repairs, and it helped her do this. In respect of the rotted away comment on the invoice, 
she noted a small section of the starboard bulkhead was found to be rotten and this was 
replaced. However, she says this damage doesnt have anything to do with the control 
panel, the aft wall or ceiling; and the starboard bulkhead isnt part of her claim.
One of our investigators considered Miss Ks complaint, but she didnt think MS Amlin had 
unfairly declined the claim. Because Miss K remained unhappy, her complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is inconclusive, incomplete or contradictory, Ive reached my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. This means Ive determined what I consider is more likely to 
have happened, based on all the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Ive seen a photo of the damaged plywood. Given its deterioration, its evident the damage 
occurred gradually, rather than being caused by a one-off sudden incident. I havent seen 
anything that supports the damage was caused by an accident or extreme weather 
conditions. Therefore, Ive considered the cover the policy provides for gradual 
deterioration.The policy does specifically cover accidental loss or damage as a consequence of gradual 
deterioration. However, the terms also make it clear that the gradual deterioration cover is 
subject to the gradual deterioration exclusion. The exclusion explains loss or damage as a 
result of gradual deterioration isnt covered unless it could not have been identified by 
routine inspection and could not have been prevented by servicing, maintenance or 
replacement 
So, for me to decide MS Amlin fairly declined the claim, I need to be persuaded the cause of 
the gradual deterioration could have been identified by routine inspection and the resulting 
damage prevented.
Like most insurance policies, Miss Ks policy requires her to make a claim before repairs are 
carried out. Because Miss K didnt do so, Ms Amlin had limited information to go on. In my 
view, MS Amlin treated her fairly by considering the repair invoices and photos, and by 
speaking to the boatyard. 
In respect of the areas claimed for, the surveyor concluded the cause of the water damage 
was the failure of the sheathing. Miss K disputes this. She says the water ingress occurred 
from behind the control panel and this caused delamination of the plywood, which in-turn 
pushed against the sheathing and caused cracks. 
I havent seen anything that supports Miss Ks description of events. The boatyards email 
explains the plywood had delaminated due to water ingress through the sheathing. Whilst 
the email also says water had entered from the top of the aft bulkhead, this doesnt lead 
me to conclude that the original issue was water entering from behind the control panel, 
which in-turn caused the plywood to delaminate and crack the sheathing.
I have reviewed the repair invoices, and I havent seen anything that explains what item had 
failed and allowed the rainwater to ingress. The invoices are detailed in respect of the work 
undertaken, but they dont offer anything about how the damage was caused.
Miss K has since cast doubt on the boatyards credibility, noting its testimony cant be trusted 
due to a dispute she has with it about the standard of repairs. Its not clear whether she only 
wishes me to disregard its comments about the masking tape, or also its email Ive referred 
to. In any event, because the repairs were completed prior to the claim, the boatyards 
commentary is the only expert evidence available of the pre-repaired damage. 
Based on the information available, on balance, Im persuaded the cause of the damage was 
the failure of the sheathing. All the expert commentary Ive seen points towards this being 
the issue. Whilst on the other hand, I havent seen anything that leads me to believe the 
damage was originally caused by water entering from behind the control panel.
Im also persuaded, on balance, that the sheathing issue could have been identified by 
routine inspection and the resulting damage prevented. This is because, based on the 
photos, I understand the sheathing is a visible and accessible part of the boat. 
So, having carefully considered the limited information available and the circumstances in 
which the claim was made, Im satisfied that MS Amlin fairly declined the claim.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Miss K, but for the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman