DRN-3977094
The complaint
Miss R complains that a default was unfairly put on her credit file by Santander UK Plc
(Santander). She says Santander withdrew its offer of an arrangement to pay off her current
accounts overdraft debt in an affordable way due to an unnotified policy change.
What happened
I have previously issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision, outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings and forms part of this final decision:
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss R says that Santander offered her a way to pay off her overdraft debt at a repayment 
level which was affordable to her over a 24-month period. She says Santander asked her to 
fill out an affordability assessment and get back in touch before the default notice period 
expired. Miss R says she did this only to find Santander had withdrawn the offer due to a
policy change of which she received no notification. Her account then went into default and
this had some serious implications for her including preventing her accessing the home right
to buy scheme.
Santander says that it made a policy decision to withdraw its offer and it says it had the right
to do so. Santander says that it then tried to find an arrangement within its new policy
guidelines, but Miss R was unable to agree a way forward, so the account went into default.
Ive listened to three calls Miss R made to Santander in the relevant period, and Ive
reviewed the default notification letter she received, as shown below in time order.
Call 1  14 January 2022
In my view Santander does explain to Miss R in this call that her account would go into 
default within months if an arrangement wasnt made to repay her debt. It is also clear to me
that Miss R explained that she didnt want to go into default as she had a possible
opportunity to buy a property. She explained that her circumstances were changing, and she
expected to be able to enter an arrangement acceptable to the business in a few months
time. The parties agreed some monthly payments while Miss R considered her options.
The default notice letter  8 June 2022
In my view this letter is a standard notification to Miss R that her account would go into
default if she didnt enter an acceptable repayment arrangement within 28 days. I cant see
that Santander did anything wrong in sending this.
Call 2  14 June 2022
Miss R re-iterated how important it was for her not to go into default on the account, and
asked Santander for help.
Santander asked what the main reason for going into debt had been and Miss R explained
shed had to take six months off work to care for someone with Covid.
Santander put the call on hold for about 10 minutes, and then said that a manager had
authorised Miss R paying the debt back in 24 months rather than the usual 15 months. The
monthly amounts are discussed, and Miss R says she can manage the new lower proposed
payments. She is asked to fill out an affordability assessment and return it. She is reminded
of the default notice letter period with, in my view, a clear implication that the only time limit
for the arrangement was that set by the default notice letter shed received.
In my view this was a helpful negotiation between the parties, both trying to meet the others
needs and a clear offer under the existing policies was made to Miss R.
Call 3  8 July 2022
Miss R had contacted Santander on 1 July to set up the 24-month repayment only to be told
it had been withdrawn due to a policy change. According to Santanders notes, on 1 July
Miss R had shown she had a monthly surplus of £76 and so was able to enter into the 24-
month repayment plan. But Santander said that it would no longer honour the offer it made
to her. Miss R complained to Santander, and this call 3 was the complaint handler
responding after investigation.
Santander tells Miss R it has changed its policy and the original offer is not available. It does
not suggest that she was in any way notified about this in advance.
Miss R is transferred to speak to the financial support team to discuss whether she can pay
off the debt in 17 months within the new policy. Santander has lost its recording of that part
of the call but both parties agree no arrangement was made that Miss R could afford, so
Santander put the account into default.
My conclusions
Santander has been clear that it did change its policy about offering overdraft repayment
arrangements after 14 June 2022 and this was to Miss Rs detriment. It has not said or
offered any evidence that it gave Miss R any prior notification about it or set her a deadline
to respond to the offer it made other than that mentioned in the default notice letter.
I acknowledge that the business is entitled to change its policies at any time with appropriate 
notice. The terms and conditions of the account under section 15.4 show that usually
Santander should give two months notice of any change that might affect the customer and I
would consider that to be good practice.
But in this case, no such notice was given.
So, in my view this was unfair in the circumstances. So, my provisional decision would be
that I am minded to uphold Miss Rs complaint.Redress
I am minded to require Santander UK Plc to put Miss R back in the position she would have
been in before it failed to provide adequate notice of its policy change.
It must remove the default notice from Miss Rs credit record with immediate effect and give
Miss R a further 28 days from the date she receives this decision to enter into an
arrangement to repay her debt within 24 months.
If Miss R fails to enter into such an arrangement, Santander may re-enter the default onto
her credit file after 28 days has passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, Miss R agreed with the outcome. Santander 
repeated its view that the 24-month arrangement was only discussed as a potential solution 
and not set on call 2 above. Santander said that by the time Miss R called back the 24-
month arrangement had been withdrawn for all customers. Santander said it had no other 
arguments or evidence.
I was already aware when I wrote the provisional decision of the views expressed by 
Santander in their response. So, my conclusions remain as in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Santander UK Plc must put things right in the way described in the Redress section of my 
provisional decision as shown above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Rs complaint and require Santander UK Plc to provide 
redress as described by the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman