DRN-2092508
The complaint
 Mr D has complained about his insurance broker Well Dunn Limited, trading as Insurance 
Revolution giving him an incorrect amount for his monthly premiums when he changed his 
car. Mr D says he wouldnt have taken out the policy if he had been given the correct figure  
as he cant afford the higher payment. 
What happened
 Mr D took out an insurance policy with Well Dunn in November 2019. In March 2020 he 
wanted to replace his car so he called Well Dunn to see how much his premiums would 
change. Well Dunn were unable to access the computer system while Mr D was on the 
phone, so they left him a voicemail message where they said the cost per month for the 
updated policy would be £257.00 for the remaining eight months. 
Mr D returned their call to update his cover. He was told his annual premium would increase 
by an additional £957.46, which would mean his new monthly premium would be the 
£257.00 he was previously told. Mr D agreed to these changes and updated his policy. 
Ten days later Mr D received a letter from Well Dunn outlining his updated monthly 
payments and revised premium. This letter said the premium would be about £431 a month. 
Well Dunn acknowledged that Mr D had been given the correct figure for the overall increase 
of £957.46 to his existing premium but the monthly amount was wrong. Mr D says he 
couldnt afford this payment, and if he had been told the correct amount he wouldnt have 
updated his policy. 
Mr Ds first premium was taken via direct debit in March 2020 but he reclaimed the money. 
The April premium also wasnt paid which placed Mr Ds policy into further default. Mr D 
complained to Well Dunn in April and they said theyd reduce the default amount of £431.06 
by £150 to £281.06 for that month. Mr D made this payment. The next premium was payable 
in April but Mr D didnt make this payment. Mr Ds policy was cancelled by Well Dunn in 
June due to the non-payment of premiums.
Well Dunn Limited say Mr D owes over £800 in unpaid premiums.
Our Investigator said Mr D shouldnt have to pay the higher premium of £431 a month as this 
wasnt the amount he agreed to, but he did agree to paying £257 a month so he should pay 
the outstanding premiums at that rate less the £281.06 he had already paid. Our investigator 
also recommended Mr D be paid £200.00 for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
receiving the incorrect information from Well Dunn. Well Dunn disagreed with our 
investigators view and requested the case be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I agree with our investigator and Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint and Ill explain my 
reasons.
Well Dunn gave Mr D a quote and Mr D said it was on that basis that he made the decision 
to take out the policy. Given the timing and content of his enquiry I see no reason to doubt 
what he has said. I do not think it is fair that Well Dunn gave him one figure on the phone 
and then expected him to pay a higher amount because of an error which was not his fault. 
However, I do not think it would be fair for Mr D to pay nothing. He agreed to pay £257 a 
month for his policy so I think that is what he should pay for the three months the policy was 
live, less the £281.06 he has already paid. But I dont think Mr D should be expected to pay 
the full outstanding cancellation charge because this is in relation a monthly premium Mr D 
never agreed to when he accepted the cover and updated his policy.
I also agree with our investigator that Mr D should be paid £200 for his distress and 
inconvenience. I do not think he has been provided with a good service by Well Dunn and 
this has caused him difficulties as he has had to stop using his car and a great deal of 
distress and inconvenience has followed from this.
I think that Mr D bought his new car because he was under the impression the monthly 
insurance premium, confirmed to him by Well Dunn in a voicemail message and further 
phone call was affordable. He was then told the correct price was much higher and said he 
couldnt afford this so took his car off the road and was unable to use it. I dont think Well 
Dunn has treated Mr D fairly and so I require it to take the action I have set out here.
My final decision
For the reasons I have outlined above it is my final decision that Mr Ds complaint is upheld. 
I require Well Dunn Limited to reduce Mr Ds outstanding premium debt to £257 a month for 
the three months he had cover, less the £281.06 he has already paid. 
I also require Well Dunn Limited to pay Mr D £200 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Sarah Scott
Ombudsman