DRN-2519687
The complaint
Mr L complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, said it needed to block 
his credit card account when one of the cards attached to it was misplaced.  
What happened
Mr L has had a credit card with Barclays for some years. There are five cardholders  Mr Ls 
family members  attached to the account. 
One of Mr Ls family members lost their credit card and so Mr L contacted Barclays and 
asked it to replace the lost card. He told Barclays that the remaining four cards were still in 
his possession. 
Barclays responded and told Mr L that it intended to block his account, including all 
remaining cards, for security reasons. It said it would need to order replacement cards for all 
five cardholders.   
Mr L was unhappy with what Barclays said as he wanted only the lost card to be replaced. 
He didnt think it was necessary to have the others replaced or to have the account blocked. 
He asked Barclays not to block any cards and said he would look for the lost card. 
Mr L then asked Barclays if he could cancel the lost card. Barclays said it was advisable to 
block the card to ensure it wasnt being used by someone else. And that blocking one card 
would automatically block the others. It said it couldnt cancel the card until Mr L confirmed 
the card had been destroyed, as the account was at risk of being used until the card expired. 
Barclays said if Mr L couldnt find the card, it would block it as per its processes. 
Mr L complained to Barclays. It responded but didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. It said its 
Barclays policy that if a card is lost then it will need to block the account and send out new 
cards to all card holders. 
Mr L was unhappy with the response from Barclays and so contacted this service. He said 
replacing all of the cards would have the following implications: 
An impact on the environment, as more cards than necessary would be destroyed 
and then replaced. 
An increased risk of theft, as each card would need to be posted. 
The remaining card holders would be unable to use their cards. 
Suppliers would need to be informed of the new card details. 
Mr L wanted Barclays to change its policies to allow the replacement of just the lost card. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Mr L wasnt happy with what our investigator said and so this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
I first of all want to clarify what Im looking at here. When Mr L contacted this service, he 
outlined a number of reasons why he was unhappy with the response from Barclays. These 
included the negative environmental impact of producing what he thought were unnecessary 
plastic credit cards. But Im not looking at this complaint from the perspective of how 
decisions made by businesses impact the environment. My remit is to look at whether Mr L 
was treated in a fair and reasonable way. Wider issues around any environmental impact are 
outside the remit of this service. 
Mr L was also concerned about potential theft, given that the new cards would have to be 
posted to him and that he would need to forward one of these to a family member. But, as 
far as I am aware, no theft has occurred. And so I dont intend to address this hypothetical 
situation. 
What this means is that Ill be looking at whether Barclays acted in a fair and reasonable way 
in how it dealt with Mr Ls lost card, taking into consideration that Mr L couldnt use the 
remaining four cards and needed to let suppliers know about the changes to his credit card 
information. 
When a credit card is lost, its most likely going to be the case that the consumer will 
experience some inconvenience while the card is replaced. And while I think its fair for a 
business to take this inconvenience into consideration, I also think its reasonable for any 
business to prioritise security.  
I can see that this is what Barclays has done on this occasion. I appreciate Mr L felt the card 
had been misplaced rather than lost, in that he thought it was most likely in his home 
somewhere. But the issue here is that it wasnt in his possession any longer so he couldnt 
be certain of this. If Barclays had simply cancelled and reissued the same card, there would 
have been two cards with the same number attached to the account. And one of these would 
have been unaccounted for, which compromises the security of the account. So, with 
security as the primary consideration, I think it was fair for Barclays to tell Mr L that it 
wouldnt simply cancel the card, unless he could confirm it had been destroyed. 
Im also satisfied Barclays acted fairly when it said the way forward was to block the account. 
This is a sensible approach to a potentially compromised account. And blocking the account 
inevitably means that all cards attached to it will no longer work, which in turn means new 
cards will need to be issued. I appreciate this was frustrating for Mr L and his family, but I 
dont think Barclays did anything wrong. I think its reasonable for Barclays to prioritise the 
security of its customers over the short-term inconvenience of having cards replaced, with all 
that this entails. 
I think its also worth mentioning that this service offers an informal dispute resolution 
service. We dont regulate financial businesses and so we dont have a role, for example, in 
saying what processes Barclays should follow. Here Barclays had an established process to 
ensure the security of its accounts and I think its actions were reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman