DRN-3296988
The complaint
Miss O complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) dealt with a claim for 
damage to her home following an escape of water.
Any references to Aviva in this decision include its appointed agents.
What happened
In October 2019 Miss O returned home to find her property had flooded.
She made a claim under her home insurance policy with Aviva. The damage was then 
assessed. Miss O however thought a full assessment hadnt been carried out and 
complained to Aviva. Aviva didnt provide a final response to the complaint, so Miss O 
referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought it should be partially upheld. She said 
while she thought Aviva had generally assessed the contents of Miss Os home fairly, it 
hadnt dealt with the claim or the complaint as well as it shouldve and should pay Miss O 
compensation for this.
Miss O didnt agree with our investigators recommendations. She said Avivas failure to deal 
with her claim fairly had impacted her mental health and caused her stress  because of 
which shed been unable to work for a substantial period of time.
Because Miss O didnt agree with our investigators assessment, the complaint has now 
come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree largely with the conclusions reached by our investigator and Im 
upholding this complaint in part. 
Miss O is unhappy Aviva hasnt paid out for items that she says were damaged in the flood 
or which had gone mouldy due to the damp conditions. Based on the available evidence, Im 
satisfied that Aviva has generally assessed the items fairly, though there are some things it 
hadnt paid for at the time of our investigators review, which I think it should cover. Ill 
explain why. 
Having looked at all the available information, including photos of the damage, its difficult to 
ascertain what was damaged as a result of the flood and what wasnt. Sometimes water 
damage isnt evident from photographs alone, so Ive relied on the experts in reaching my 
conclusions. And whilst the reports Ive seen arent particularly thorough, I can understand 
Avivas position that it is unable to assess items which have been disposed of, so theres no 
evidence of damage to those items. 
Miss O has said she only disposed of items as she thought they had been assessed as 
damaged. But without evidence of damage to the items, Im afraid its difficult for me to say 
Aviva should cover the cost of them.
In relation to the items under the stairs, I cant see that these have been properly 
photographed so it isnt clear whats been damaged. It follows that I cant say its unfair for 
Aviva to be disputing these. Several other items are also in dispute but I wont go into detail 
about them, except to say that I agree largely with our investigator that many of those could 
have been removed and cleaned, so didnt necessarily require replacement. I do however 
think Avivas agents couldve better advised Miss O about which items might be salvageable 
and to remove these from the property to have them stored elsewhere and cleaned. It has 
also been confirmed that some items such as contents for a motor vehicle wouldnt be 
covered, and looking at the policy terms I dont consider this unreasonable.
Ive looked at the available information in relation to the sofa and TV. Aviva maintains that 
there was minimal damage to the lounge area  and the evidence supports this, as the agent 
who visited the property confirmed that the TV was on and working and the sofa they were 
sitting on wasnt wet. Although Miss O has said the TV stopped working after this visit and 
the sofa smelled of damp, she hasnt provided evidence to support what shes said. And the 
photographs of those items dont persuade me that they were damaged as a result of the 
flood. I cant see damage to the fireplace either, from the evidence provided. So it wouldnt 
be fair for me to require Aviva to cover the cost of these items.
In relation to the bedroom furniture, the bed frame doesnt appear to be damaged from the 
photos provided. Its also not clear from the photos whether any of the other bedroom 
furniture was damaged, and I dont consider it likely as some of the information and photos 
suggest moisture didnt travel far enough into the bedroom. I appreciate what Miss O has 
said about the headboard being furthest away from the bedroom door and that the agent 
accepted this was damaged. But this still doesnt persuade me that the rest of the bedroom 
furniture was damaged, as I havent seen evidence of this  and the bed appears to be 
raised on metal legs so I dont consider it likely that the entire bed wouldve been affected by 
any moisture. 
Ive seen a photo of the signed picture  and I think its fair for Aviva to have asked Miss O 
for evidence of its authenticity in order to value it, which hasnt yet been provided. So I dont 
think it unreasonable for these items not to have been covered in the claim. 
Aviva has offered to pay for the jackets and coats, and said Miss O would be contacted 
directly about these. It also asked her to cost the damaged clothing so it could settle this, in 
an email dated 20 August 2020. Miss O has said shes given Aviva a figure of £1500 for the 
clothing but has received no confirmation. So Im going to require Aviva to respond to Miss O 
promptly and cover this cost towards the clothing, unless it can provide good reason why the 
figure is in dispute. 
Ive carefully considered what Miss O has said about the impact this claim has had on her, 
and I sympathise greatly with her circumstances. It must have been incredibly worrying to 
discover what had happened and the long and frustrating process of getting things sorted 
must have taken a toll. But I think the £200 recommended by our investigator, which Aviva 
has agreed to pay Miss O for the distress and inconvenience she experienced, is a 
reasonable offer in the circumstances. 
I say this because its difficult to ascertain what level of distress was caused by the flood 
itself, and how much was a direct result of the way Aviva handled the claim  as theres 
always going to be some upset and inconvenience following such an event. Further, dealing 
with insurance companies isnt always going to be hassle free  time is often spent making phone calls and chasing things up. Though I do think Miss O had to do more than Id 
reasonably expect.
So while I cant fairly say Aviva is responsible for the impact this situation has had on Miss O 
as a whole, as Ive explained above, I do think it couldve done better. It didnt respond to her 
complaint, there were unreasonable delays, and I think the change in agents caused some 
confusion and poor service. I think Miss O should be compensated for this. And for the 
reasons Ive given, Im satisfied that the level of compensation our investigator 
recommended is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Miss O, Aviva Insurance Limited must now:
Settle the claim for the laptop if it hasnt already done so. 
Settle the claim for the coats and jackets if it hasnt already done so. 
Settle the claim for the other damaged clothing in line with Miss Os suggested figure 
of £1500, if it has not already done so. If it disputes the valuation Miss O has 
provided in relation to the clothing, it must give good reason for this and suggest a 
reasonable alternative within four weeks of the date Miss O accepts this decision.
Add 8% simple interest per annum on any payments to Miss O in respect of the 
above items, from the date of loss until the date of settlement.
Pay Miss O £200 for distress and inconvenience, if it hasnt already paid this 
following our investigators assessment.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to put things right as Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 April 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman