DRN-3565896
The complaint
Mr F complains that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited is responsible for poor service 
in connection with a claim on his motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Markerstudy, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include 
employees and others insofar as I hold Markerstudy responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
Mr F had a luxury saloon, first registered in 1999. It had a registration number which Mr F 
regarded as a cherished registration. 
In September 2021, Mr F had the vehicle insured with Markerstudy. Unfortunately, his 
vehicle was damaged in an incident. So he made a claim to Markerstudy. 
Markerstudy said the vehicle was a total loss. Mr F told Markerstudy that he wanted to keep 
the registration number. On about 21 January 2022, Markerstudy sent Mr F a payment for 
the vehicle, but said it was holding back an amount pending completion of the plate transfer.
Mr F complained to Markerstudy that it was responsible for delay in sending him 
documentation and for a poorly handled telephone call.
By a final response dated 25 March 2022, Markerstudy accepted that complaint. It  
apologised and said it was sending a cheque for £75.00 compensation. Unhappy with that, 
Mr F asked us to investigate further.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She recommended that 
Markerstudy should increase the compensation to £125.00 in total.
Mr F disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The compensation is not sufficient for the hassle and aggravation caused to date.
On this second complaint it does not only revolve around cherished plate, there is the 
lack communication, long call hold times, poor service etc...
He should be compensated somewhere in the region of £750-£1000 or above. 
The amount would be due to the stress and anxiety caused leading to ill health.
Still to date the Markerstudy provided no satisfactory evidence or proof to show that 
they have contacted the third party insurers. On any occasion he contacted 
Markerstudy, there was a minimum call had hold time of 2 hours or more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules. One of those rules is that a consumer must first complain to the firm and 
wait for up to eight weeks for a final response before we can investigate a complaint. That 
means that we usually look at the complaint answered in the final response. There may be 
subsequent complaints and subsequent final responses that we look at separately.
The complaint Im looking at is the complaint that Mr F made in late January or early 
February 2022 and that Markerstudy answered in its final response dated 25 March 2022. 
Mr F has made earlier and later complaints that Im not dealing with in this decision.
From Markerstudys file note on 9 February 2022, I see that on a previous call Markerstudy 
spoke to Mr F, but then placed him in a queue to the claims department, where he was 
eventually cut off. 
I also see that Mr F was working to a deadline of 21 February 2022 to provide documents to 
DVLA. Markerstudy sent out the required documents on 9 February 2022. So I accept that - 
by the shortcomings Ive seen in relation to the call and delay in sending the documents  
Markerstudy caused Mr F frustration and worry that he was going to lose his cherished plate. 
Mr F hasnt provided enough evidence to show that these shortcomings caused him illness. 
Putting things right
Overall, I find it fair and reasonable to direct Markerstudy to pay Mr F  in addition to the 
£75.00 already paid - a further £50.00 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr F  in addition to the £75.00 already 
paid - a further £50.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman