DRN-3731954
The complaint
Mr D complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) provided him 
with the incorrect settlement figure for a hire agreement he had with it. This has led to Mr D 
owing an outstanding amount after believing he had settled the account which he says is 
unfair.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr D entered into a hire agreement with VWFS for a vehicle. The agreement 
was for four years and the total amount payable was £34,385.41 via one advance rental 
amount of £4,400, 47 monthly payments of £324.73 and one final rental payment of 
£14,723.10.
In December 2021 Mr D contacted VWFS and asked for a settlement figure to terminate the 
agreement. Mr D was told by VWFS that the settlement figure was £19,027.91 if paid before 
a date in January 2022. This figure was provided to Mr D in both a letter and an email from 
VWFS.
Mr D part-exchanged the vehicle during December 2021 and entered into a new agreement. 
Funds were transferred to VWFS to settle the hire agreement. VWFS confirmed it had 
received the money.
However, in January 2022 a monthly payment was taken from Mr Ds account of £324.73 so 
he called VWFS who said this had been taken in error as a sales invoice still needed to be 
raised to close the account. Another monthly payment was taken in February 2022.
In February 2022 Mr D was shocked to receive an invoice from VWFS for £4,130 which it 
said was the amount that was outstanding on the agreement. Mr D complained to VWFS as 
he said the settlement figure that hed been given by it had been paid in full in December 
2021.
VWFS upheld his complaint as it said Mr D had been provided with an incorrect settlement 
figure. VWFS explained there had been an error in respect of the VAT figure which was 
£3805.58 and hadnt been added correctly. In addition, there was one monthly payment of 
£324.73 which was now showing as being in arrears. It offered Mr D £380 as compensation 
for the error but said the amount of £3,805.58 was still payable. 
Mr D was unhappy at VWFSs response and complained to this service. Mr D said it would 
be fair for VWFS to waive the VAT additional invoice. He also said the compensation offered 
wasnt sufficient.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. She said it wasnt 
disputed that VWFS had done something wrong as it accepted the settlement figure 
provided hadnt been correct. But our investigator said she didnt think it would be fair to ask 
VWFS to write-off the outstanding amount on the account. She said the outstanding amount 
was what had been due under the agreement.
Our investigator also said she thought the compensation offered by VWFS was fair looking 
at the impact on Mr D.
Mr D disagreed with the view of our investigator, he said VWFS should be held to the 
settlement figure it had provided.
As the parties couldnt reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As set out by our investigator, VWFS doesnt dispute that it made an error when supplying 
Mr Ds settlement figure so the issue for me to decide is what is a fair resolution for that 
error.
I accept Mr D relied on the settlement figure provided by VWFS when settling his hire 
agreement account. He says had he known that the settlement figure for the vehicle had 
been higher than the one provided then he would have sought a higher price for the vehicle 
when selling it on. However, I dont know whether Mr D would have been able to achieve this 
or not, and I think its reasonable to assume he had sold the vehicle for a fair market value. 
So, I think its reasonable that I dont take this possibility into account as I simply dont know 
what Mr D would have been able to arrange for the vehicle or whether there would have 
been an outstanding amount or not when hed ended the agreement.
Mr D says that it would be fair for VWFS to write-off the VAT figure, VWFS says that its fair 
for this amount to be payable by him. While I know this will be of disappointment to Mr D I 
think it would be disproportionate to what has happened to ask VWFS to write off the amount 
of £3,805.57. This is because had there been no error by VWFS then the correct settlement 
figure for the vehicle due under the agreement was £23,724.36. And Mr D was liable for that 
amount in line with the agreements terms and conditions. I dont think its reasonable for Mr 
D to benefit from VWFSs error to the amount of £3,805.57 and for VWFS to have to bear 
this loss.
I therefore think its fair that Mr D is liable to pay the correct amount that was owed when the 
agreement was terminated. That is £23,724.36 and which was the agreed contractual 
termination cost. So, I think its fair for Mr D to be liable for the outstanding £3,805.57.
However, I do accept the error has had an impact on Mr D. He will have been shocked to 
find there was an unexpected lump sum still to pay having thought the agreement was 
settled. So, I think compensation is due to Mr D and Ive seen that VWFS also accepts that. 
It has offered him £380 to reflect what has happened.
As I think Mr D is liable to pay the correct amount due under the agreement then I think the 
offer from VWFS is fair and reasonable when looking at the impact this mistake has had on 
him. And I wouldnt ask it to increase that amount.
Ive seen Mr D says he isnt in the position of being able to clear the outstanding amount on 
the account and I can appreciate that. I would expect VWFS to work with Mr D in agreeing a 
reasonable and affordable payment plan with him to clear the balance of the account.
So, for the reasons given above Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman