DRN-3631209
The complaint
Miss K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc refuses to remove the default registered on her 
credit file. She says she was suffering from financial abuse which prevented her from being 
able to discuss her financial circumstances with HSBC and thinks it is unfair she is being 
penalised for this.
What happened
Miss K complained to HSBC about the default marker on her credit file.
HSBC said it followed the correct procedures including sending a default notice and final 
demand and as such the default marker was correctly recorded. And despite Miss K 
informing it of the financial abuse suffered HSBC didnt find the evidence of this sufficient to 
remove the default from her credit file.
Miss K was dis-satisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ks concerns and reached the conclusion that 
HSBC hadnt done anything wrong. 
Miss K disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not uphold Miss Ks complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Miss K has experienced and see if HSBC has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Miss K back in the position she 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation 
that I think is fair and reasonable.
Miss Ks main complaint point is that it was unfair HSBC wont remove a default on her credit 
file. So the question I have to ask is whether HSBC did anything wrong in refusing to remove 
the default on Miss Ks credit file. But before I can answer this question, I need to consider 
whether HSBC did anything wrong in closing Miss Ks account and registering a default 
when she didnt pay back the outstanding balance of her unarranged overdraft in the 
required time.
Im in agreement with our adjudicator here, in that I dont think that HSBC acted unfairly 
when it closed Miss Ks account and registered a default. As prior to this happening I can 
see that Miss K stopped using the account in around May 2018 leaving it with an outstanding 
balance of around £2,291 and that HSBC sent a final demand requesting payment by the 3 
February 2019 and as no action was taken the account was closed in May 2019 and a 
default recorded on Miss Ks credit file in June 2019. 
So Im satisfied HSBC was entitled to close Miss Ks account as it gave Miss K the required 
notice and Miss K didnt make the payment in time. And I dont think HSBC did anything 
wrong in recording a default on Miss Ks credit file  HSBC has a duty to make sure the 
information it reports on its customers affairs to the credit reference agencies it subscribes to 
is factually accurate and this is an accurate reflection about what happened. 
And again, to answer the first question I dont think HSBC has done anything wrong in 
refusing the remove the default it registered on Miss Ks file. I appreciate Miss Ks 
circumstances were extremely difficult. But there is no evidence Miss K informed HSBC of 
this at the time and I cant say her credit file and her overdraft facility with HSBC would be 
any different if it wasnt for this. And as such I dont think it would be fair to ask HSBC to 
remove information that is a true and accurate reflection of how Miss Ks account was 
managed. 
Ive noted Miss Ks concerns that this is affecting her ability to borrow money. She might be 
interested to know that she can place a Notice of Correction on her credit records. The 
purpose of such a notice is to allow someone the opportunity to add any explanatory 
circumstances that they would like prospective lenders to take into consideration when 
making lending decisions. I understand due to the sensitive nature of Miss Ks 
circumstances she might not wish to do this, but if she does she should contact the credit 
reference agencies directly.
So overall and having considered everything I dont think HSBC treated Miss K unfairly or 
unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman