DRN-3656195
The complaint
Mr H complains that Thamesbank Credit Union Limited (Thamesbank) havent refunded 
money he mistakenly sent to the wrong account. 
What happened
Mr H requested a withdrawal from his Thamesbank savings account but didnt receive it by 
the next working day which is what he says would usually happen. 
Mr H says he contacted Thamesbank who told him it had paid the money into the account as 
requested. Mr H checked his account a few days later but the money still hadnt arrived. 
Mr H realised the money had been mistakenly transferred to an account with a similar 
account number and so he reported the matter to his bank. His bank told him Thamesbank 
would need to contact them directly and request a chargeback. 
Mr H asked Thamesbank to contact his bank to arrange the chargeback. He says initially 
Thamesbank asked him to provide it with the bank details so it could contact them. But when 
Mr H provided the information to Thamesbank it declined to contact the bank. 
Mr H contacted Thamesbank again but didnt receive a response. Mr H wants Thamesbank 
to track the missing funds and pay it back into his account. He says he contacted 
Thamesbank but didnt receive a response so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr H. She said she wasnt persuaded Thamesbank 
had made any errors. She said Thamesbank followed Mr Hs instructions in transferring the 
funds and provided him with reasonable advice to help him recover them. She also said the 
regulations around payments made in error dont apply to Thamesbank and so it wasnt 
required to do any more than it already had. The complaint wasnt upheld. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators outcome and suggested his complaint would have 
been upheld if the amount of money in question was much higher. The investigator assured 
Mr H the outcome would be the same regardless of the sum of money involved. But Mr H 
wasnt happy with the outcome and so the complaint has been referred to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I think its useful to reflect on the role of this service. The service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct. Instead this service looks to resolve 
individual complaints between a consumer and a business. 
I wont detail every call, email, and text Ive looked at during my review of this matter. I dont 
underestimate the worry and stress this situation has caused to Mr H. Aside from not being 
able to get the money back Mr H says he has had little support from Thamesbank. So I can 
understand why he feels the way he does. 
Having said all that Im afraid I agree with our investigators outcome, so I dont require 
Thamesbank to do any more. Ill explain why. 
Mr H has accepted he was responsible for making the error in the first place, when he sent 
the payment and entered an incorrect account number. It remains Mr Hs responsibility to 
properly check any payments before authorising them. So I cant hold Thamesbank 
responsible for the incorrect payment in the first place. 
When looking at complaints such as the one brought to the service by Mr H I look at the 
facts and circumstances of each individual complaint. I follow the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) rules about dispute resolution. And I take into account any relevant laws and 
regulations, guidance, and standards. 
In cases where there is an issue around a payment transfer the Payment Service 
Regulations 2017 apply. These set out what payment service providers must do if there has 
been an unauthorised or fraudulent activity on an account. Whilst these Regulations apply to 
banks and building societies they dont apply to credit unions. And so there is no 
requirement on Thamesbank to try and recover the money. I can understand how this would 
be frustrating for Mr H but since Thamesbank havent done anything wrong here I am unable 
to hold it responsible for the missing funds or for not attempting to recover them.   
I have seen Thamesbank suggest that it would act to try and recover the money for Mr H. I 
think Thamesbank could have managed Mr Hs expectations better by letting him know it 
was unlikely he would recover the funds. And that it wouldnt assist him in recovering the 
funds, rather than asking him to obtain information for the bank and give the impression it 
would take some action. It did, however, provide some advice to try and assist Mr H. 
I know Mr H hasnt been refunded the money. But for the reasons Ive explained above I 
dont hold Thamesbank responsible for the fact it didnt recover the funds. I do realise how 
upsetting this will be for Mr H and Im sorry to disappoint him. But in making my decision I 
have to consider what, if anything, the business has done wrong. Here Thamesbank 
followed Mr Hs instructions in making the initial transfer. It hasnt attempted to assist Mr H in 
recovery of those funds but it isnt obliged to do so. And so I cant say it has done anything 
wrong. 
I am sorry that this isnt the outcome that Mr H had hoped for. I hope he can understand the 
reasons for my decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman