DRN-3198411
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about the way Fairmead Insurance Limited handled a claim they 
made for damage to an underground pipe under their home insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2021 Mr and Mrs P noticed their flooring had become damaged, they lifted the 
flooring to find the floorboards were wet, and realised a leak was coming from a pipe under 
the concrete. They contacted Fairmead to make a claim under their home insurance policy.
Fairmead said it would cover the cost of the damage caused by the leaking pipe, but it 
wouldnt cover the cost of replacing the pipe itself, as no insured event had occurred under 
the policy. 
Mr and Mrs P complained to Fairmead, they felt they should also be covered for the cost of 
fixing the pipe, as they have cover on their policy for accidental breakage to underground 
pipes.
Fairmead didnt agree to change its position on the claim, but it did accept the service it had 
provided was below what it would expect, so it offered Mr and Mrs P £50 compensation for 
this.
Unhappy with the response, Mr and Mrs P complained to our service. Our investigator 
upheld the complaint. She said Mr and Mrs P were covered for accidental breakage to 
underground pipes, and she felt the damage described was covered under Fairmeads 
definition of accidental breakage. So she recommended it reconsider the claim under the 
accidental breakage section of the policy. She also said it should pay a total of £100 
compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused by unfairly declining 
the claim. 
Fairmead didnt accept this. It said when Mrs P had reported the claim, she told it the pipe 
was corroded. It also said the report from Mr and Mrs Ps plumber supports this. So it said 
replacing the pipe wouldnt be covered due to the wear and tear exclusion on the policy. 
Our investigator maintained Fairmead had unfairly declined the claim, she didnt think the 
insurer should rely on Mrs Ps word corroded as shes not an expert. And she didnt think 
the plumbers report did support Fairmeads position.
As the matter couldnt be resolved, its come to me to decide.
Ive already contacted Fairmead to tell it that I intend to agree with the outcome reached by 
the investigator. But I said rather than reconsider the claim under the accidental breakage 
section, Fairmead should reimburse Mr and Mrs P what it cost them to fix the pipe, which 
was £654.80. 
Fairmead hasnt provided any response to this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fairmead appears to have relied on two reasons to decline the claim; it says the damage 
doesnt meet the definition of accidental breakage. It also says the claim is declined as the 
pipe broke due to wear and tear, and damage caused by this is excluded under the policy.
In insurance claims, it is for the insured (so in this case Mr and Mrs P) to demonstrate 
theyve suffered a loss covered by the policy. Mr and Mrs P contacted Fairmead when they 
realised there was an issue with the floor and had it pulled up to see what was happening. 
They found an underground pipe was leaking. As Mr and Mrs P have cover for breakage to 
underground pipes, Im satisfied theyve shown the loss is one they have cover for.
Its not clear why Fairmead dont think the damage can be classed as accidental breakage 
of underground pipes. Having reviewed Mr and Mrs Ps policy, the cover is for breakages 
that are sudden, unintentional and unexpected. I havent seen anything that would suggest 
the damage didnt meet this definition.
So Ive then considered whether Fairmead has shown that a relevant exclusion applies, and 
Im not satisfied that it has.
Fairmead says the damage is excluded as wear and tear as Mrs P, when reporting the 
claim, said the pipe was corroded. I dont have a copy of the call where Mrs P said this, only 
Fairmeads notes on the call. So I dont know exactly what was said by Mrs P. However, I 
consider that as Mrs P isnt a plumber, its unreasonable that Fairmead would rely on this to 
say the damage must have been caused by wear and tear.
Fairmead didnt attend the property to carry out its own inspection of the pipe, so theres no 
report from it on the cause of the leak. It seems it didnt attend to look at the pipe as it told 
Mrs P she didnt have cover for it, which was incorrect. So Fairmead only reviewed the 
damaged flooring, and not the pipework itself.
Ive reviewed Fairmeads internal notes from when the claim was made. These say the claim 
will be reassessed when the plumbers report (from Mr and Mrs P) comes in. But I cant see 
that Mr and Mrs P were ever told that their plumber would need to comment on the likely 
cause of the damage for Fairmead to consider the claim. So no such information was 
provided.  
The only thing provided by the plumber was the invoice. Fairmead says because the 
plumber said replace the old pipe this is evidence that the issue is wear and tear. I 
disagree. For reasons set out above, the invoice provides no comment on the cause of the 
damage. I consider old in this context to mean the pipe that needed replacing, rather than a 
comment on the cause of the damage.
So having considered everything, Im not satisfied Fairmead can fairly rely on the exclusion 
of wear and tear to decline the claim. And as I cant see any other reason why the claim 
shouldnt be met, Fairmead needs to reimburse Mr and Mrs P what they paid for the repairs. 
From what Ive seen this was £654.80. Fairmead also needs to pay 8% simple interest on 
this amount from the date it was paid, until the date of settlement.
It should also pay a total of £100 compensation (less any amount already paid) for the 
unnecessary inconvenience caused by unfairly declining the claim.
  
My final decisionMy final decision is that Fairmead Insurance Limited needs to pay £654.80 to settle the 
claim. It needs to add 8% simple interest to this amount, from the date the amount was paid, 
until the date of settlement.
It also needs to pay £100 compensation (less any amount already paid) for the unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman