DRN-2322621
The complaint
Mr C has complained that he didnt receive fair value for reward points collected from his 
Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) credit cards
What happened
Mr C had a Lloyds Trustcard credit card for many years. He accrued reward points over 
several years. He was particularly interested in using the points to pay for flights.
The Lloyds Bank Trustcard reward scheme (as regards the travel programme) was operated 
by a third party provider. In 2018, the travel incentive programme was transferred to a new 
provider.
In 2019, Mr C contacted that provider to enquire about redeeming his points. He felt that he 
wasnt offered fair value for the points.
Mr C complained to Lloyds. It responded in May 2019. Lloyds said that the redemption of 
points was the responsibility of the third party supplier and was subject to their terms and 
conditions. Mr C disagreed and referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
in June 2019.
Our investigator said that the rewards scheme (in terms of the travel incentive scheme) was 
administered by the separate third party provider and was subject to its own terms & 
conditions. The provider was a third party and it was its responsibility to decide how many 
points are required for each flight and how it provides its services. The investigator said that 
it wasnt the responsibility of Lloyds to determine how reward points are redeemed.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators view and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the terms and conditions of the Lloyds credit card. It makes it clear that the 
rewards programme in terms of the travel incentive scheme is run by the third party provider 
and is subject to that providers own terms and conditions. Lloyds letter to cardholders in 
June 2018 explained that points would be issued and redeemed subject to those separate 
conditions. 
Lloyds says that these terms and conditions were sent to Mr C in June 2018, with a letter 
explaining the changes. I reviewed these documents and can see that the terms explain that 
...all orders for goods and services using points will be directly between yourself and the 
supplier. We will not be party to that contract. . Lloyds has said that these were sent to 
all cardholders. So on balance I am satisfied that Mr C was sent a copy of these too. 
Here, Mr C is very clearly unhappy with the value of the points. But this side of the incentive 
scheme is dealt with by the third party provider, rather than Lloyds. The terms and conditions 
Lloyds provided explain this and detail how this aspect of the scheme is subject to its own 
separate terms and conditions with the provider. So I cant see any basis on which itd be fair 
to hold Lloyds liable for what Mr C is unhappy with here.
I realise that Mr C feels that Lloyds should be held responsible because his contract was 
signed with it rather than the provider. But for the reasons Ive already explained, I dont 
think that would be fair on Lloyds here. He hasnt been prevented from raising this issue with 
the provider by Lloyds. While Ive seen that he may have been unhappy with the providers 
response, that doesnt mean that I can now hold Lloyds responsible for what hes unhappy 
with.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman