DRN-3753698
The complaint
Mr M complains National House-Building Council (NHBC) unfairly declined his building 
warranty claim.
What happened
Mr M bought a new-build property that was covered by a ten-year building warranty policy. 
The policy started in July 2011. Three sections of the policy are relevant to his complaint. 
Those are sections 2, 3, and 4.
During the first two years of cover (i.e. years 0-2), section 2 of the policy applies. During the 
last eight years of cover (i.e. years 3-10), sections 3 and 4 apply.
Under section 2, the original builder is responsible for putting right any defect or damage 
thats reported during the first two years. The policy defines a defect as a breach of any 
mandatory NHBC requirement during construction, and damage as physical damage 
caused by a defect.
However, if theres a dispute between the homeowner and the builder about issues raised 
during the first two years, NHBC can, at its discretion, offer its resolution service. If NHBC 
issues a resolution report requiring the builder to act and the report is accepted in full by 
the homeowner, but the builder fails to comply, NHBC becomes responsible for those 
required actions.
Section 3 covers damage in certain parts of the building, thats reported during the last eight 
years. The covered parts of the building are listed in section 3. 
Section 4 covers the builders non-compliance with certain building regulations that applied 
at the time of construction, if the issue is causing a present or imminent danger, and its 
reported during the last eight years. The applicable regulations are listed in section 4.
In January 2021, Mr M made a claim for missing thermal insulation. He was experiencing 
cold conditions in his home. Because the claim was made during years 3-10, NHBC 
considered sections 3 and 4. NHBC declined the claim under both sections.
Mr M referred a complaint to our service. Hes since made the following points to us and 
NHBC:
- The missing insulation falls under the following building regulations that are covered 
by section 4: Part A  structure; Part B  fire safety; and Part J  combustion 
appliances and fuel storage systems.
- The insulation manufacturers product sheet confirms the insulation has acoustic 
benefits. Therefore, the insulation is part of the structure of the property.
- The missing insulation is a fire risk. The manufacturers product sheet confirms the 
insulation is non-combustible and achieves a Euroclass A1 Reaction to Fire 
classification. 
- The insulation is an integral part of the fire safety system. It enabled the property to 
achieve its overall 60-minute integrity and insulation statutory requirement for fire 
safety.
- NHBC carried out extensive fire safety renovations in 2018. The missing insulation 
should have been picked up during those renovations.
- Due to the missing insulation, the heating system cant function properly as any heat 
it generates is lost. Therefore, the heating system is defective
- Theres published guidance which recommends a minimum indoor temperature of 
18C in winter. A temperature below 18C is considered to pose a risk to health. 
NHBCs own standards refer to a minimum of 21C, or 18C in the bedroom. 
- Mr M has monitored the temperature in his property over a period of two months, and 
on twelve days, the temperature recorded was below 18C despite his heating being 
on. The lowest temperature recorded was 12.6C. Mr M has also provided thermal 
images of the walls, and he says the images show insulation is missing in places.
- Mr M recalled he had raised a heating issue with the original builder during the first 
two years of the policy. So, he thought the claim should also be covered under 
section 2. 
- NHBC has told Mr M it wont be offering its resolution service under section 2, due to 
the passage of time since the issue was raised with the builder. Mr M says there are 
no such time limits in the policy, and the terms state NHBC will act if the builder 
doesnt fulfil its obligations under section 2. Mr M says NHBC hasnt applied its 
discretion fairly or in-line with the policy terms when deciding not to offer its 
resolution service.
NHBC has made the following points to Mr M:
- In respect of section 2, the policy terms explain NHBC should be contacted as soon 
as possible, and NHBC may offer its resolution service. NHBC noted that Mr M last 
spoke to the builder about the heating issue in 2013.
- In respect of section 3, theres no physical damage, so the necessary requirements 
for a valid section 3 claim dont exist.
- In respect of section 4, thermal insulation isnt integral to fire safety. Its simply there 
to reduce heat loss from the property.
- The vertical spread of fire is controlled by cavity barriers at floor level. The insulation 
inside the timber frame, which is well separated from the flat below by timber and 
plasterboard, doesnt play any critical role in preventing the spread of fire. Many 
materials have some fire resisting properties but arent deemed to be critical to 
compliance, and this location and type of insulation is not a necessary part for 
compliance with Approved Document B.
- Approved Document J provides guidance on the safe installation and usage of heat 
producing appliances, this doesnt include thermal insulation.- The thermal images arent conclusive, and theres no proof that insulation is missing. 
The timber frame construction has quilt insulation set vertically between the timber 
studs, so its unlikely that pieces would be missing from the base as gravity would 
normally cause the quilt to fill this space.
One of our investigators didnt think we could consider NHBCs decision not to offer its 
resolution service under section 2. She also didnt think Mr Ms claim had been unfairly 
declined under sections 3 and 4. Because Mr M was unhappy with her outcome, his 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
In August 2022, I issued a jurisdiction decision setting out what points we can, and cant, 
consider. In my decision, I explained:
- We cant consider NHBCs decision not to offer its resolution service under section 2. 
- We can consider NHBCs claim decision under sections 3 and 4.
In August 2022, I also set out my provisional findings about the matters we can consider. In 
that provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 3
For section 3 to apply, there must a) be physical damage in a part of the property thats 
listed in section 3, and b) it must have been caused by a breach of a mandatory NHBC 
requirement. 
I havent seen anything that suggests the alleged missing insulation has caused physical 
damage. As such, irrespective of whether missing insulation is a breach of a mandatory 
NHBC requirement, Im satisfied NHBC fairly declined the claim under section 3.
Section 4
This service is generally reliant on the technical expertise of others. Where theres a dispute 
about defects and damage, or building regulations, we consider the submissions of the two 
parties to determine what, on balance, we are more persuaded by. We tend to place more 
weight on those considered to be industry experts. Therefore, its not my role to determine 
whether building regulations were breached by the original builder, but rather, its to 
consider whose arguments and evidence I find more persuasive.
Whilst Mr M has taken his own temperature readings and thermal images, no evidence has 
been provided from a suitably qualified expert to support his interpretation of the information 
hes gathered. But even if thermal insulation is missing from the external walls, I havent 
seen anything that persuades me the issue is a breach of the building regulations that 
applied at the time of construction.
Mr M has referred to three building regulations: Part A  structure; Part B  fire safety; and 
Part J  combustion appliances and fuel storage systems. Ill address these in turn.Approved Document A (structure) sets out the requirements in relation to loading; ground 
movement; and collapse. NHBC says missing insulation wouldnt impair the ability of the 
structure to comply with Part A. Having reviewed the applicable Approved Document A, 
I havent seen any guidance relating to insulation, so I accept Part A isnt relevant here.
In respect of Approved Document B (fire safety), NHBC has pointed towards the parts that it 
considers relevant to this complaint.
Approved Document B requires external walls to adequately resist the spread of fire. NHBC 
says because the external walls are 1,000mm or more from a relevant boundary, they must 
be protected from a method of exposure direction that is from inside to outside. NHBC says 
this protection is provided by fire resistant boarding being applied to the inner face of the 
timbers, not by insulation installed within the studwork zone of the external wall.
NHBC also says, even if the external walls were within 1,000mm of a relevant boundary, and 
therefore, there was a requirement for the external wall to be protected from exposure from 
outside to inside, the protection that would be required to the timber frame wouldnt be the 
insulation, it would be an externally applied fire-resistant board.
NHBC also says, because Mr Ms building has a storey height of less than 18m, the building 
regulations placed no constraints on the combustibility of materials in either the cladding or 
backing wall zones of the external wall. As I understand it, the inference being that the 
insulation isnt considered to be part of the buildings fire safety system.
Approved Document B also requires the unseen spread of fire and smoke within concealed 
spaces to be inhibited. NHBC says cavity barriers are required where extensive cavities 
exist, but if insulation was missing, that wouldnt constitute an extensive cavity, and nor 
would insulation need to be installed to mitigate the spread of smoke and fire. 
In summary, NHBC says missing thermal insulation wouldnt create a fire hazard to external 
walls, and nor has the external wall failed to comply with any of the requirements of the 
building regulations.
Mr M hasnt provided anything from a suitably qualified expert to support his position that the 
applicable fire safety building regulations were breached, due to missing insulation. Ive also 
not seen anything in the applicable Approved Document B, that supports his argument the 
insulation forms part of the buildings fire safety system. On the other hand, NHBC has 
provided an explanation from its technical expert, and its pointed towards the relevant 
guidance within Approved Document B to support what it says. So, it follows Im more 
persuaded by NHBCs submissions, than the submissions of Mr M. 
In respect of Approved Document J (combustion appliances and fuel storage systems), Ive 
not seen anything that shows Mr Ms heating system is defective. In relation to the alleged 
missing insulation, having reviewed the applicable Approved Document J, I havent seen 
any guidance relating to insulation within external walls. As such, I accept NHBCs 
conclusion that Part J isnt relevant here. 
Whilst I acknowledge Mr M is unhappy with his homes heat retention, Ive not seen anything 
that persuades me the issue is covered by his building warranty policy.
In response to my provisional decision, NHBC confirmed it had no further comments. Mr M 
set out why he disagreed with both my jurisdiction decision and provisional decision. He 
reiterated points previously made, and set out the following new points:- The complaint wasnt limited to missing insulation from the external walls, it included 
missing insulation from the internal walls. The thermal images Mr M provided were 
for external and internal walls.
- Mr M provided a report from 2015 which highlighted various fire safety concerns, and 
a presentation from 2018 which explained the investigations and works that were to 
be undertaken by NHBCs appointed contractor. He questioned why NHBC spent a 
year, at great expense, checking every single internal wall around the perimeter of 
every flat to ensure it was properly fire sealed, if it considered the missing thermal 
insulation wouldnt create a fire hazard.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M reiterated several points in response to my jurisdiction decision. Its not my intention to 
be discourteous by not responding to those points, but they arent relevant to our jurisdiction. 
As I previously explained, I cant consider NHBCs decision not to offer its resolution service, 
because Mr Ms complaint about that matter doesnt relate to a regulated activity. Mr M says 
NHBC is contractually obliged to provide its resolution service, but even if hes correct here, 
that doesnt mean the resolution service falls under one of the regulated activities we can 
consider (which are set out in Financial Conduct Authority Handbook).
Turning to my provisional decision, Mr M reiterated previous points, and made new points, in 
relation to section 4. Ill address the new points.
In my provisional decision I said even if thermal insulation is missing from the external walls, 
I havent seen anything that persuades me the issue is a breach of the building regulations 
that applied at the time of construction. In response, Mr M hasnt provided anything that 
supports missing insulation from external walls is a breach of the applicable building 
regulations. So, my findings on this point remain the same.
However, Mr M pointed towards the internal walls and the 2018 presentation. Ive reviewed 
the 2015 report and the 2018 presentation hes provided, but neither of those documents 
refer to missing insulation. 
Ive also reviewed the applicable Approved Document B in respect of the requirements for 
internal fire spread. I accept materials had to meet certain classifications, and there were 
requirements for compartmentation and cavities, but Ive not seen the internal walls, 
compartments or cavities had to be insulated for fire safety reasons.
The 2018 presentation explains the contractor will be checking that services passing though 
the 30-minute and 60-minute compartment lines are suitably sealed, and it will be rectifying 
any issues. 
Mr M points towards the 2018 works being relevant to the issue of insulation. But based on 
the information Ive seen, as I understand it, sealing the compartment lines where services 
pass through was needed to prevent the spread of fire. It didnt have anything to do with 
insulation.
Mr M argues gaps in the insulation will allow air to circulate, which in turn is a fire hazard 
because oxygen/air causes fire to spread. But I havent seen anything in the applicable 
building regulations, or from a suitably qualified expert, which supports Mr Ms theory 
insulation was required at the time of construction to prevent the spread of fire.In my view, the 2015 report and 2018 presentation dont support theres missing insulation in 
the internal walls, that missing insulation is a fire risk, or missing insulation breached the 
applicable building regulations.
Mr M says his thermal images are reliable and NHBC hasnt proved otherwise. But the point 
here is, even if insulation is missing, Ive not seen missing insulation would breach the 
building regulations that applied at the time of construction. A breach of those building 
regulations is required for a section 4 claim to succeed.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, but having carefully considered all the information thats been 
provided, Im not persuaded NHBC unfairly declined his claim under sections 3 or 4.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman