DRN-3540003
The complaint
Mr F complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund funds he says 
were lost as part of a scam.
What happened
In October 2015, Mr F opened a trading account with a company Ill refer to as L. L was a 
parent company with two other business entities in separate names who Ill refer to as L2 
and L3. 
Ive included a table of the payments Mr F made from his account to L, L2 and L3, along with 
the credits he received into his account from those companies. Ive highlighted in bold the 
two payments Mr F says were made as part of the scam.
Date Transaction details Amount
6.11.2014 Payment to L2 £    100.00
6.1.2015 Payment to L2 £ 5,000.00
13.1.2015 Credit from L2 £ 1,157.00 cr
14.1.2015 Credit from L2 £ 1,001.67 cr
13.2.2015 Payment to L2 £      50.00
23.7.2015 Credit from L2 £      18.96 cr
30.9.2015 Credit from L £    500.00 cr
30.10.2015 Payment to L  which is being disputed £80,023.00
2.11.2015 Payment to L3  card payment which is being 
disputed£20,000.00
20.11.2015 Credit from L3 £ 5,000.00 cr
23.11.2015 Credit from L £ 5,000.00 cr
1.12.2015 Credit from L £10,000.00 cr
9.2.2015 Credit from L3 £ 1,500.00 cr
Mr F made two payments from his NatWest account. The first in October 2015 was for 
£80,000 which incurred a £23 CHAPS payment charge. The second payment in November 
2015 was a card payment made to L3 for £20,000.
The background to this complaint isnt in dispute and was covered by the investigator in their 
view, so I wont go into detail. In summary, Mr F claims that he was never actually trading on 
the live stock market and was instead presented with a fictitious copy of the market where L 
used a sophisticated trading software to manipulate the prices. Mr F says L lured him in by 
allowing him to make big profits, so hed continue to add more funds. However, these were 
then followed by consistent losses with Mr F losing all the money hed put in. 
Mr F raised a fraud claim with NatWest in 2020, saying hed fallen victim to a multi-layered 
investment scam. Mr F felt NatWest had breached their duty of care by not protecting him 
from the scam, as the payments shouldve been identified by NatWest as unusual and 
indicated that he was potentially at risk of financial harm.
Ultimately, after investigating Mr Fs fraud claim, NatWest declined to refund him. They told 
Mr F that his payments hadnt been flagged by their system so they hadnt called him to 
discuss the payments and wouldnt have been aware of the purpose of the payments. 
Mr F wasnt happy with NatWests response, so he brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Fs complaint but didnt uphold it. The investigator explained 
that while NatWest had a duty to guard Mr F against the financial harm from fraud or scams, 
they didnt have an obligation to give Mr F investment advice or protect him from bad 
bargain investments. The investigator didnt feel NatWest acted unreasonably or unfairly by 
not intervening before processing Mr Fs payments, or that if they had intervened, they 
wouldve found anything concerning and prevented Mr F from making the payment.
Mr F disagreed with the investigators opinion, saying NatWest had a duty to pay due 
regards to the interests of its customer by protecting them from financial harm. And, that as 
part of its duty, NatWest shouldve blocked his payments as part of their fraud monitoring.
As Mr F disagreed with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Was Mr F the victim of a scam?
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when looking into 
what is fair and reasonable in this case. 
However, a bank has to be on the lookout for and help to prevent payments that could 
involve fraud or be the result of a scam. And Id expect a bank to take steps in those 
circumstances to help protect its customers from suffering a loss. But, that duty doesnt 
extend to payments that arent made as a result of a scam. There isnt an obligation on 
NatWest to protect Mr F from making a bad investment, entering into a high-risk investment, 
or potentially risking his money with an inappropriate investment. So, in Mr Fs case I would 
need to be persuaded that the payments he made were done so as part of a scam whereby 
L and L3 set out with the intention to defraud him.
Having considered everything very carefully, Im not persuaded that Mr F was the victim of a 
scam for the following reasons:
L was and is a registered company in the UK and has been incorporated since June 
1996. Ls met its regulatory requirement of submitting accounts and I cant see any 
strike-off or winding up orders. If a company was set up to defraud customers, I 
wouldnt expect it to continue trading for such an extended period of time, as usually 
scam reports come through quite quickly if returns arent made or consumers feel the 
company has defrauded them. 
L is also authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority and has been since 
December 2001. The activities they are authorised for include dealing in investments 
as agents and dealing in investments as principles. If they were set up with the 
intention of defrauding customers, I think its unlikely they wouldve gone through the 
steps required to obtain authorization. Or, Id expect to see a warning from the FCA, for example, that their authorization had been revoked or that they were carrying out 
unregulated activities. There is a warning about a cloned investment company which 
was set up to trick customers into thinking they were investing with L, but Im not 
persuaded that Mr F was dealing with a cloned firm.
Im persuaded Mr F was dealing with the genuine firm L, rather than a cloned firm, as 
an account was opened with the genuine firm and when he wrote a letter of 
complaint it went to genuine firms contact information. L investigated that complaint 
and provided a response. All of the communication Ive seen has been with the 
genuine firm. 
The complaint that Mr F raised with L directly in April 2016, referred to dissatisfaction 
that a large number of trades had been rejected by L. In its response, L pointed to its 
terms and conditions and the various situations whereby they would reject a trade, 
providing details of the main reasons Mr Fs trades were rejected. I wouldnt expect 
this level of engagement if L wasnt a genuine firm.  
Mr F has complained about two payments, one to L and one to L3 which total 
£100,000, but hes received credits into his account to the value of £22,000 which he 
hasnt referred to in his complaint. Also, he hasnt raised a complaint regarding 
payments made to L2, which occurred before his payments to L. L2 is a subsidiary 
business of L, and it appears that Mr F was making trades through an account with 
them prior to dealing with L directly. Its also unclear why he received a credit into his 
account from L, one month prior to him making the first payment out to L. This 
suggests Mr F had already funded his account with L and mayve made another 
earlier payment to them, however hes not referred to that as part of his complaint.
Having considered all the information that is available about L, Im not satisfied I can safely 
conclude that Mr F was the victim of a scam or that L set out with the intention to defraud   
Mr F. I think the information and evidence we have suggest its more likely that the loss Mr F 
has suffered is as a result of a high risk investment or due to him not receiving the return he 
expected on his money. And, on that basis, I cant fairly say that NatWest acted 
unreasonably in processing Mr Fs payment instruction without intervening or hold them 
liable for Mr Fs loss.
As L was the parent company of L2 and L3, I think it follows that a finding that L didnt set 
out with the intention to scam Mr F, allows me to conclude that L3 as a subsidiary didnt 
either. Especially taking into consideration that Mr F was able to withdraw £6,500 from L3, 
with the last withdrawal made three months after Mr F had made his payment to them. 
For completeness, I think its worth noting that even if I was persuaded that any of the 
payments were made as a result of a scam, I still wouldnt ask NatWest to refund Mr F. 
I say this because Mr F was investing with a business (L) authorised by the FCA, which had 
no FCA warnings, was a duly incorporated company which had been established for a 
significant period of time and was carrying out activity in line with its authorisation. In a case, 
where we say a business shouldve identified a customer was potentially at risk of financial 
harm from a scam  we would expect them to ask questions about the customers payments 
to satisfy themselves that the payment was being made for legitimate purposes. But we 
wouldnt expect them to interrogate the investment or the business. And, based on the 
information that was available at the time of making the payment (including the credits Mr F 
had received into his account), there would be no reason for NatWest to believe Mr F was 
the victim of a scam and prevent him from making the payments. I dont think any questions 
NatWest wouldve asked wouldve raised any concerns for NatWest or Mr F that he wasnt 
dealing with a genuine investment through a legitimate firm and have prevented him from 
making the payments.Could Mr F have recovered his card payment through the chargeback scheme?
NatWest referred to the VISA chargeback scheme in their final response to Mr F, saying they 
couldnt raise a chargeback in relation to his card payment of £20,000. 
The chargeback scheme offers a way to resolve settlement disputes where a card payment 
is involved. However, the chargeback scheme has quite strict rules and has time limits in 
which the consumer has to raise their claim. 
In Mr Fs case, he didnt report the fraud until 2020 whereas the card payment was made in 
2015. The time limit may, in certain circumstances, start from when the consumer became 
aware there was a problem rather than when the payment was made. In this case, I think   
Mr F wouldve been aware there was a problem in 2015/2016, when he didnt get the 
expected returns on his trades. So, I think its unlikely that a chargeback wouldve been 
made within the required time limits and therefore NatWest hasnt acted unreasonably in not 
raising a chargeback for Mr F.
Having considered everything very carefully, Im not satisfied that NatWest acted 
unreasonably in following Mr Fs payment instruction. Or, that they shouldve intervened and 
prevented the payments being made. On that basis, I cant fairly ask NatWest to refund      
Mr F.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman