DRN-2917424
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1992. Mr and Mrs R say Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them the PPI.
 
What happened
Briefly:
In 1992 Mr and Mrs R took out PPI at the same time as taking out a mortgage during a 
branch meeting.
While the mortgage was jointly held, the policy provided protection for Mr R only in the event 
he couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy would pay out 
for up to 24 months per claim. The policy was free for the first 12 months  after which it cost 
around £23 a month.
At the time of the sale Mr R was employed and he said he was entitled to less than three 
months sick pay. Mr and Mrs R jointly said they had no other means of making the 
repayments on their mortgage if Mr R couldnt work. Finally Mr R said he was in good health 
at the time.
Nationwides records show that the PPI was cancelled in 1995 and the mortgage account 
ended in 1997.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said that due to 
how long-ago things happened there wasnt enough evidence to fairly say that Nationwide 
misrepresented the policy as not being optional. They also said they thought the policy was 
right or suitable for Mr R. 
Because Mr and Mrs R disagree, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. My reasons are set 
out below.
did Mr and Mrs R have a choice about PPI? 
did they agree to take it out?
In submitting their complaint to us, Mr and Mrs R said they dont recall the policy being sold. 
They also said that on reflection they may have felt some pressure to take out the cover. 
Nationwide says the policy wasnt compulsory and that Mr and Mrs R chose a mortgage 
product, which offered PPI free for the first 12 months after which they were responsible for 
the premiums.
Unsurprisingly Nationwide no longer has any of the paperwork from the time of the sale  the 
sale took place around 30 years ago and the account has been closed since 1997. 
Businesses dont have to keep records forever. 
But despite the lack of evidence from the time, taking everything into account I think on 
balance Mr and Mrs R chose to take out PPI and likely did so without undue pressure  
although I can understand why they no longer remember doing so.
Firstly Im mindful that the two things Mr and Mrs R told us in their PPI questionnaire cant 
both have happened  Mr and Mrs R cant have felt pressured to take out something they 
didnt know was being sold to them. But based on the available evidence, I think Mr and Mrs 
R did know they had PPI. I say this because Nationwides records show that Mr R cancelled 
the policy in 1995 because he was working abroad and would no longer have met the claim 
criteria. The fact Mr R cancelled the policy demonstrates he reasonably knew of its 
existence.
And in terms of whether Mr and Mrs R chose to take out the cover  Nationwide says that Mr 
and Mrs R chose a mortgage product, which included PPI. And it wasnt uncommon for 
lenders to offer PPI this way in the early 1990s. Many lenders started to offer PPI around 
this time following the Governments reduction in state support for mortgage interest 
payments. Its possible that Mr and Mrs R received a preferential or discounted rate too by 
taking this mortgage product. But if Mr and Mrs R didnt want the PPI it seems they could 
have chosen a different mortgage product.
So taking everything into account, and in the absence of persuasive evidence to the 
contrary, I think its likely Mr and Mrs R chose to take out PPI as part of the mortgage 
product or deal they were taking and did so without undue pressure. 
did Nationwide advise Mr and Mrs R to take out PPI?
Nationwide says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs R. And Ive not seen anything to 
persuade me that it did. But even if I thought it did, for the reasons below it wouldnt make a 
difference to the overall outcome of the complaint because I think the policy was in any 
event suitable for Mr and Mrs R.
the information  
Given the limited available evidence, I accept its possible the information Nationwide gave 
Mr and Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But as I found above, I 
think they likely chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And 
based on Mr and Mrs R circumstances at the time it doesn't appear that it was inappropriate 
for them - for example Mr R was eligible for the cover and he wasn't affected by the 
significant exclusions on or limits to the cover, such as those for unusual employment 
circumstances or existing medical conditions.
Mr and Mrs R didnt have significant existing means they could have used to make their 
mortgage payments if Mr R wasnt working - so it seems like it would have been useful for 
them if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs R off taking out the cover. conclusion
While Nationwide might not have done everything it should fairly and reasonably have done 
when it sold Mr and Mrs R PPI, in light of their circumstances at the time I think the policy 
was ultimately suitable for them - so I don't think clearer information would've put them off 
taking it out.
This means I dont think Mr and Mrs R have lost out as a result of taking out PPI, so 
Nationwide doesn't have to pay back to Mr and Mrs R what they paid for PPI.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs R have said - including what they said in response 
to the adjudicator's assessment said. But these points dont change my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award in Mr 
and Mrs Rs favour.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman