DRN-4065953
The complaint
Miss L complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED (Startline).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss L, but I dont think this car was supplied in an unsatisfactory 
condition. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss L acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Startline, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss L. The car here had 
already completed a little over 96,500 miles and was over nine years old. So, I dont think a 
reasonable person would expect it to be fault free, and I think its likely it would be 
experiencing significant wear and tear, and that some components would be coming to the 
end of their serviceable life.
The independent inspector who looked at the car in February 2023, said: The fault codes 
are historical and were triggered thousands of miles ago, indicating the symptoms were 
clearly present at point of purchase, so the sales agent should be responsible for the 
necessary repair costs on the grounds that this is a pre-existing condition. And Miss L has 
explained that she noticed a steady amber warning from about two months into her 
ownership. So, Im persuaded on that basis that the car was at least developing a fault with 
the catalytic converter when it was supplied to Miss L.
But here I dont think the fault with the catalytic converter meant the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. I say that because online research suggests catalytic converters should last between 
70,000 and 100,000 miles, and the car Miss L had taken receipt of had completed 96,500. I 
think the failure was therefore most likely to be due to normal wear and tear. In those 
circumstances Startline are not responsible for the cost of the repair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman