DRN-2453080
The complaint
 Miss H has complained that Lloyds Bank plc wont refund unauthorised transactions from 
her account.
 
What happened
 Miss H is disputing multiple payments to iTunes totalling £1,638.58, which were made 
between 21 March 2019 and 24 April 2019 from a PayPal account. Miss H said she didnt 
know about the transactions until Lloyds contacted her about a payment to another 
merchant, which it had declined. Lloyds asked her to confirm if the payments to iTunes were 
genuine. Miss H said she hadnt made the transactions and didnt recognise them.
Lloyds advised her to contact iTunes and PayPal. They didnt help her, so Miss H went back 
to Lloyds and raised a fraud complaint.  
Lloyds gave Miss H a temporary refund and raised a chargeback claim with iTunes. iTunes 
defended the claim. It said the payments were for in app purchases for an Apple game. It 
confirmed that Miss H had an account with them. It provided proof that it held the correct 
postal and email addresses for her. Lloyds also contacted PayPal and it confirmed it held an 
account in her name and that her debit card details had been registered to the account.
Lloyds decided not to refund the disputed transactions. It said there was no evidence of 
fraud and concluded that Miss H had authorised the transactions. It took back the temporary 
refund.
Miss H didnt think this was fair, so she asked this service to investigate. She said she lives 
with her partner and daughter. She told us she keeps her card in her purse and hasnt 
shared her card details or PIN with anyone else. She confirmed that shed bought an Apple 
game for 99p and had downloaded it to her phone for her daughter. But she said she didnt 
make the disputed transactions. She said Lloyds told her it looked like her account for the 
game had been hacked.
An investigator looked into her complaint and recommended that it be partially upheld. He 
felt unable to conclude that the payments had been made fraudulently and was persuaded 
that Miss H had authorised them. However, he thought Lloyds security system shouldve 
been triggered by the payments, given the sudden increase in spending. He concluded that, 
had it alerted Miss H to the payments earlier, then she couldve taken steps to control or stop 
further payments to iTunes. He thought it was fair and reasonable, therefore, for Lloyds to 
refund payments to iTunes made after 20.40pm on 21 April 2019 and totalling £626.35, 
together with interest.
Neither Miss H nor Lloyds agreed with the investigators view. Miss H said she wants a full 
refund because the disputed payments looked suspicious from 14 April 2019. She also 
maintains that this was fraud.  
Lloyds disagreed that its systems shouldve identified the transactions as unusual or 
suspicious. It said:
Miss H authorised the disputed transactions 
the genuine device (her phone) was used to make the transactions 
the spending pattern and amounts were not dissimilar to previous spending on the 
account
she made payments to iTunes for similar amounts in the past and these appeared to 
be regular payments
she wouldve received receipts for each purchase in the form of emails 
it was unreasonable to ask it to refund the payments when Miss H couldve applied 
parental controls but chose not to.
This case has now come to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the facts, the transactions, the 
relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Miss H and Lloyds have read the investigators 
view, so I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision. 
However, I can assure both that Ive read the file, including their comments and evidence.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
those reached by the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
In short, Lloyds is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017).  But the bank can hold Miss H liable for any disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made or authorised them himself.
Miss H says she didnt make the disputed payments and she wants a refund. So, my primary 
concern is to come to a view about whether or not I think she authorised the payments.
Ive seen PayPals record and they confirm that Miss Hs name, address and card details, 
were registered to the account. Im satisfied, therefore, that Miss Hs card details were used 
to authenticate the disputed payments.
But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Lloyds 
to hold her liable. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more 
likely than not that she consented to the withdrawals being made.
I dont think this was fraud or that the game account was hacked. The evidence shows that:
the payments were made directly from Miss Hs mobile phone, using a PayPal 
account in her name
her card details were registered against the PayPal accountwhoever made the payments must have known her PayPal password to make the 
payment
they must have known the password to her phone
Miss H hasnt denied this was her PayPal account
Miss H has admitted that she bought an Apple game for her daughter and that the 
game was downloaded to her phone
iTunes confirmed the disputed payments were in app purchases for the game which 
Miss H bought
Miss H allowed her daughter to use the phone and play the game without any 
parental controls on her device or the iTunes account.
Based on the evidence, I can only conclude that Miss Hs daughter downloaded the apps or 
games, not knowing there was a price to pay. This happens a lot and shes not to blame.
However, Im afraid Miss H is still treated as having authorised the payments. Under the 
relevant regulations a payment transaction is regarded as having been authorised by the 
payer only if the payer has given her consent to the execution of the payment transaction. 
The regulations go on to say that such consent must be given in the form, and in 
accordance with the procedure, agreed between the payer and its payment service provider. 
The form and procedure are usually set out in the terms and conditions. 
This is very wordy but, put simply, consent is given when the payer uses her card, the card 
details and/or the PIN.
A person can also give someone else authority to make a transaction. And Im afraid 
authorisation isnt limited to transactions for which explicit permission has been given. 
Where a payer has allowed someone else to use her card or card details so that it looks to 
the bank or building society as if the payer is making the transaction, then this will be treated 
as apparent authority to make the transaction.
So, because of what the regulations say, Im afraid I consider its fair and reasonable for 
Lloyds to treat her as having authorised the disputed payments (by giving apparent 
authority) because she allowed her daughter to use her phone without adding any parental 
controls.
Im understand that Miss H didnt know that she needed to turn on parental controls on the 
games account. No doubt many parents have been caught out this way, but Im afraid she is 
still regarded as having authorised the disputed payments and Lloyds is entitled to hold her 
liable for them.
However, there are some situations in which Lloyds should reasonably have had a closer 
look at the circumstances surrounding the payments. And as a matter of good industry 
practice at the time, I may also consider whether Lloyds firms shouldve taken proactive 
steps 
to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam; or 
to minimising risks, impact and incidences of financial harm.
(Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of 
Practice).Ive thought about this carefully. Ive considered what Lloyds had to say - that the payments 
were made from Miss Hs phone and to a merchant which shed used before. And I note that 
Miss H wouldve received emails about the purchases. She said she didnt read them and 
struggles with emails and calls due to her health. So, Ive also looked at Miss Hs bank 
statements, to determine whether the payments were particularly unusual or suspicious in 
comparison to the normal activity on her account. 
There have been regular payments to iTunes  sometimes multiple payments in a day  
since January 2018. But until March 2019, the payments were never made from her PayPal 
account. And the payments rarely exceeded £20. Most of the purchases were under £10.  It 
also looks as if iTunes refunded most, if not all, the payments. I dont know why but I think 
its most likely her daughter was using her account.
However, the pattern changed in April 2019. The investigator has set out the payments in a 
table in his view, which Lloyds and Miss H will have seen. The payments to iTunes 
increased significantly in frequency and value. According to the bank statements, there were 
no other iTunes payments during March 2019 and April 2019. And there were no other 
PayPal payments, which indicates that she didnt use this account frequently. The change 
was noticeable from 20 April 2019. By 20.40pm on 21 April 2019, Miss H had spent 
approximately £380 in one day. This was a sudden change and increase in her spending on 
the account. But I agree with the investigator that the trigger shouldve been the eight 
transactions which were made within 17 minutes between 20:23pm and 20:40pm on 21 April 
2019. I agree that this shouldve raised concerns with Lloyds that Miss H as at risk of 
financial harm or abuse and it shouldve alerted her to the payments.
In summary, taking everything into account, I find that Miss H authorised the disputed 
payments by giving apparent authority to her daughter to use her iTunes account. However, 
I think Lloyds shouldve noticed that the sudden increase and change to the spending 
pattern on her account. 
Putting things right
I consider its fair and reasonable, therefore, that Lloyds should refund the payments made 
after 20.40pm on 21 April 2019.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that Im partially upholding this complaint and 
Im instructing Lloyds Bank PLC to: -
refund all transactions to iTunes after 20.40pm on 24 April 2019 to 22 April 2019, 
totalling £626.35 and,
pay 8% interest on this amount from the time the transactions left the account until 
they are refunded
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Razia Karim
Ombudsman