DRN-4076820
The complaint
Mr G complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined a subsidence claim he made 
on his buildings insurance policy.
Reference to AXA includes its agents.
What happened
Mr G holds a buildings insurance policy with AXA. He made a claim for damage which he 
thought was caused by subsidence.
AXA declined the claim. It didnt think the damage was caused by subsidence. It thought the 
damage was caused by the foundations being too shallow. It deemed this faulty 
workmanship which it said was excluded from Mr Gs policy.
Mr G complained, but AXA didnt change its stance, so, Mr G brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought AXA was fairly relying 
on the policy exclusion to decline Mr Gs claim.
Mr G didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why. I understand Mr G will be unhappy with 
this answer. And, while Ive considered everything Ive been provided, Im not going to 
comment on each and every bit of evidence or argument. Ive set out below, what I consider 
are the key reasons for my decision.
Mr Gs policy with AXA says hes covered for subsidence damage. But it also says 
hes not covered for: Any loss arising from subsidence caused by bedding down of 
new structures, demolition or structural repairs or alterations to the property, faulty 
workmanship or the use of defective materials, or river or coastal erosion. 
Im satisfied AXA has shown the foundations are too shallow. The relevant 
regulations required the foundations to be at least 750mm deep. Ive not seen any 
evidence that the foundations were this deep. All the measurements provided are 
shallower than this. Nor have I been provided with any persuasive evidence to show 
that the foundations didnt need to this deep.
I understand Mr G says this doesnt apply where the property is built on rock. But Im 
not persuaded by the evidence Ive seen that the extension is built on rock. I 
understand building control commented that the extension was built on rock, but 
none of the investigations carried out at the property when assessing the damage 
support this. And Im more persuaded by those investigations.
I think its reasonable that AXA say that the foundations being shallower than the 
building regulations relevant at the time amounts to faulty workmanship.
Therefore, Im satisfied AXAs decline of Mr Gs claim is fair and reasonable and in 
line with his policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman