DRN-4215297
The complaint
Miss H complains that AWP P&C SA hasnt paid a claim she made under her travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Miss H holds a travel insurance policy through a bank account, provided by AWP.
Miss H went on a two-night trip in the UK with her partner and children. On the last morning, 
Miss H got into an argument with her partner. She says she left the hotel room before her 
partner and assumed that her partner would bring her bag. This was because Miss H wasnt 
allowed to lift anything, and she already had a pram with her. However, Miss H says her 
partner had assumed Miss H had taken her own bag.
Miss H realised when she returned home that her bag was missing. She phoned the hotel 
but it wasnt found. So, Miss H made a claim for the lost/stolen bag to AWP. However, AWP 
said that the circumstances were excluded under the policy terms and conditions, and it 
declined the claim.
Miss H brought a complaint to our service, and one of our investigators looked into what had 
happened. Having done so, he didnt think AWP had acted unfairly or unreasonably when it 
declined the claim. This was because the policy terms excluded loss or theft when baggage 
was left unattended in a public place. And as Miss H and her partner had checked out of the 
hotel room and left the bag behind, he thought the bag had been left unattended.
Miss H didnt agree with our investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide. I then issued my provisional decision, and said the 
following:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Miss Hs complaint.
Miss Hs travel insurance policy covers loss or theft of baggage. But in common with most 
travel insurance policies available on the market, the terms and conditions of Miss Hs policy 
dont cover the loss or theft of personal possessions which are left unattended and/or where 
the policyholder hasnt taken all possible care to safeguard against [] loss, damage or 
theft. The policy defines unattended as When you are not in full view of and not in a 
position to prevent unauthorised interference with your property or vehicle.
The circumstances surrounding this claim are that Miss H left her bag inside the hotel room, 
assuming that her partner would bring it with him. But he thought shed already taken the 
bag with her. I think whats important to note here is that Miss H and her partner were 
checking out of their room. So upon leaving it, they were not intending to return and they 
were returning their key. At that point it wasnt their room anymore.
Firstly, some of the items lost are valuables, as the definition of valuables includes jewellery, 
watches and laptops. And the relevant section of the policy excludes valuables left 
unattended at any time (including in a vehicle or the custody of carriers) unless deposited in 
a hotel safe, safety deposit box or left in your locked accommodation. I think this exclusion 
applies here because the hotel room wasnt Miss Hs anymore, as Ive set out above. So, I 
dont think theres any cover for the valuables under the policy terms.
Unlike our investigator said, I dont think the exclusion for leaving items unattended in a 
public place apply in the circumstances here. I say this because the exclusion gives 
examples of a public place such as station, airport, restaurant or beach. But I dont think 
leaving a bag inside a hotel room, even after checking out, is similar to those examples as 
the room is unlikely to have been open to the public.
But I cant fairly conclude that Miss H took all possible care to safeguard against loss or 
theft. Fundamentally, she left the hotel room without her bag, only assuming her partner 
would notice and bring it. I think by leaving the room without her bag (especially considering 
the items that were in it) and without checking that her partner had it, or that it was in the car 
when they started their return journey, Miss H didnt take adequate steps to mitigate the risk 
of leaving the bag behind.
Based on what Ive seen so far, Im sorry to disappoint Miss H but I dont think her claim is 
covered under the terms and conditions of her policy and I dont think AWP acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by declining her claim.
AWP responded to say it had nothing further to add. But Miss H doesnt think my decision is 
fair. In short, she says that she did safeguard her belongings as she left her bag in a locked 
room, the hotel room didnt have a safe, and her partner was bringing the bags.
As both parties have now had the opportunity to review and comment on my provisional 
findings, Im issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered everything, including Miss Hs comments in response to my 
provisional findings. But Id already considered these points when I issued my provisional 
decision, and I addressed what I thought was material to the outcome of the complaint.
Having considered everything again, I see no reason to depart from the findings I reached in 
my provisional decision. So, Ive reached the same decision, and for the same reasons. 
Overall, I dont think AWP has acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining Miss Hs claim. 
This is because I dont think her claim is covered by the terms and conditions of her policy 
for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Renja AndersonOmbudsman