DRN-3521296
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about Amtrust Europe Limiteds handling of claims they made on a 
legal expenses insurance policy.
While Mr and Mrs B are joint policyholders and bring this complaint to our service together, 
almost all of the contact with Amtrust and our service has been with Mr C. Where I refer to 
Mr B within this decision, this should be taken to include Mrs B.
Amtrust uses a separate company to administer claims (and complaints about claims) on the 
policy. Where I refer to Amtrust within this decision, this includes this representative working 
on its behalf.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B hold a legal expenses insurance policy provided by Amtrust as an add-on to a 
home insurance policy. Mr B approached Amtrust on two occasions, in 2020 and 2021, as 
they wanted to take legal action against a neighbour in respect of various issues which had 
arisen. The nature of these disputes is well known to the parties but not relevant to my 
consideration of the complaint.
Mr B has made complaints about the way these claims were handled to Amtrust, which has 
rejected the complaints. Hes been unhappy with the length of time taken to progress the 
claims, the decisions taken about the solicitors appointed by Amtrust and the communication 
from Amtrust. He also disagrees with the assessments that have been made that the claims 
didnt enjoy prospects of success or that the costs of pursuing actions would be 
disproportionate. Hes additionally complained that Amtrust have disclosed personal 
information without consent, and that it has unreasonably refused to provide details of the 
solicitors who completed the most recent assessment for Amtrust.
Amtrust rejected his complaints, so he approached our service. Our investigator thought that 
Amtrust could fairly rely on the assessments of the solicitors and so had acted reasonably 
when it declined cover for Mr and Mrs Bs claims. As I noted that other aspects of the 
complaints werent addressed, and so issued a provisional decision. Both parties have 
responded to my provisional decision, and having reviewed their submissions, Im now in a 
position to issue this final decision.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
The first point I want to address is Mr Bs dissatisfaction that the complaints hes raisedabout 
Amtrust, and the claims he made, have been considered as one complaint by our service. I 
agree with this position. While Mr B has approached Amtrust on two separate occasions, 
and made two distinct complaints covering multiple points, which have resulted in two final 
responses being issued by Amtrust, Im satisfied that the matters can be properly addressed 
within one decision.
Its clear from the correspondence between Amtrust and Mr B that hes dissatisfied with the 
way that Amtrust has responded to his claims, but I think it was fair for Amtrust to treat them 
as one ongoing matter as all of the points raised relate to various disputes with one 
neighbour about a number of alleged nuisances and trespasses.
Ill address the various issues raised by Mr B in his complaints to Amtrust separately.
The decision to decline cover for legal expenses
It seems to me that the biggest issue for Mr and Mrs B is Amtrusts decisions that the various 
claims theyve made for nuisances and trespasses dont enjoy reasonable prospects of 
success or the costs of pursuing actions would be disproportionate. Those assessments 
mean that Amtrust wont cover Mr Bs legal expenses in pursuing such matters. Mr B doesnt 
agree with these assessments. He says that they are wrong, and the most recent 
assessments have been based on irrelevant and incomplete information which was provided 
to the solicitors assessing the claims.
In common with many legal expenses insurance policies, its a condition of Mr and Mrs Bs 
policy that a claim has ongoing reasonable prospects of success (ie that if the matter 
proceeds to court theres a 51% or greater chance of achieving the desired outcome) and 
that the costs of pursuing such action are proportionate (ie that the projected legal costs are 
less than the amount being sought).
The legal opinions of various solicitors whove been appointed by Amtrust to assess Mr and 
Mrs Bs claims has been that they dont enjoy reasonable prospects of success or the costs 
to pursue the claims would be disproportionate. Im aware that the conduct of one of these 
solicitors has been referred by Mr and Mrs B to the Legal Ombudsman. 
Our service wont comment on a legal opinion unless we think there is something obviously 
wrong with it, which even a layperson would spot, for example clear factual errors or an 
obvious misunderstanding of the case. From what Ive seen, I cant conclude that this is the 
case here. I havent seen anything to suggest that there are significant factual errors or that 
the solicitors involved have misunderstood what Mr and Mrs B are claiming.
Ive considered whether it was reasonable for Amtrust to rely on these opinions, and Im 
satisfied that it was. The opinions detail why, in the reviewing solicitors opinion, the claims 
would be unsuccessful, and outline options for Mr and Mrs B to pursue as an alternative to 
legal action. Im satisfied that Amtrust could fairly rely on these opinions as being detailed 
and reasoned and forming a legitimate basis on which to make a decision on cover for the 
claims.
What I can see is that, having communicated the outcome to Mr and Mrs B, Amtrust have 
acted appropriately by saying that it would reconsider its position if an opposing legal opinion 
is obtained by Mr and Mrs B which indicates that their claims do have reasonable prospects 
of success. No such opinion has been provided by Mr and Mrs B to Amtrust to date. 
Amtrusts position on this remains, I assume, unchanged. If Mr and Mrs B obtain, at their 
own expense, a legal opinion from a properly qualified legal professional outlining that their 
claims (or elements of them) enjoy reasonable prospects of success and are proportionate 
to pursue, then it will review its position with regards to cover under the policy.
Mr B is also unhappy that information relating to the initial claim was sent to the solicitors 
who assessed the second claim. He says this was irrelevant and meant that the assessment 
was wrong. I cant agree with this. Ive seen the emails sent by Amtrust to the solicitors with 
the information and can see that this included all of the information hed sent across both 
claims.Im satisfied that Amtrust acted appropriately by providing all the information it held to the 
solicitors relating to the disputes between Mr and Mrs B and their neighbour. I think its to be 
accepted that in order to come to a holistic view of the matters raised, the solicitors would 
benefit from sight of all information relevant to the disputes that have arisen, including 
background information and details of previous disputes. I think its fair for Amtrust to 
assume that a properly qualified legal professional will be able to review that information and 
us what is pertinent and relevant to the matters theyve been asked to review.
Amtrust did note that the initial assessment of the second claim was carried out without the 
benefit of the reviewing solicitors having sight of Mr and Mrs Bs completed claim form. 
When this was noted, the information was sent to the solicitors who confirmed that their 
opinion was unchanged. On noting that potentially relevant information hadnt been 
provided, Im satisfied Amtrust acted reasonably by sending it to the solicitors and asking 
whether the information within it changed the outcome.
Delays and communication
Im aware that from an early stage of the first claim Mr B was unhappy about the 
communication he was receiving from Amtrust and the length of time the claim was taking. 
This continued to be the case throughout the claims including when Amtrust issued its final 
responses to the complaints.
Im satisfied that the communication with Mr B outlined the current position with the claims, 
the actions which were being taken and what was required from Mr B in order to progress 
the various matters. I appreciate that Mr B was unhappy about being asked to provide 
further information but do consider that the requests made were proportionate, appropriate 
and timely.
While I appreciate Mr Bs opinion that the claim as unnecessarily delayed by Amtrust, Im not 
satisfied that this is supported by the evidence, save for two short periods which Ill address 
below. Amtrust has a service level agreement that contact must be responded to within five 
working days, and despite a large amount of contact being made with Amtrust by Mr B, this 
was complied with throughout the time that Amtrust was communicating with him, except on 
one occasion. I can also see that Amtrust were being pro-active in seeking to progress the 
claims, by requesting information, contacting solicitors and communicating outcomes. I cant 
agree that Amtrust only took action to progress the claim in response to contact from Mr B 
chasing updates or progress. 
As I said above, I do think however that there were two occasions when there were short 
periods of delay which can be attributed to Amtrust. During the course of the initial claim, Mr 
B and Amtrust were sent a letter by solicitors on 12 November 2020 indicating that theyd 
report back to Amtrust within five working days. On 26 November 2020, Mr B contacted 
Amtrust to ask for an update. Amtrust responded on 27 November 2020 saying it had 
received the report from the solicitors that day. It would appear from this exchange that 
Amtrust didnt receive the report in the timescale that was indicated.
I havent seen any evidence that Amtrust was chasing this report from the solicitors, and 
even if it was told that it was delayed theres nothing to suggest that Amtrust updated Mr B to 
this effect. This was at a time when Amtrust knew of Mr Bs dissatisfaction with the way the 
claim was being handled and also how urgently he wanted to progress these matters. I think 
this should have been handled better.
The other occasion when a short delay occurred was acknowledged by Amtrust in its 
correspondence. Mr B had sent an email on 8 November 2021 saying that he didnt want 
solicitors whod carried out the previous assessment of the first claim to carry out a new assessment of his new claim. He sent a further email asking for a response on 10 November 
2021, and copied Amtrust into an email he sent to the solicitors on 12 November 2021. On 
17 November 2021 he contacted Amtrust by telephone and the following day Amtrust said it 
would look to appoint a different solicitor to carry out the assessment.
Amtrusts position is that during that period, discussions were taking place in order to 
progress the claim. I havent seen details of these discussions but do acknowledge that the 
new solicitors were provided details of the claim on 18 November 2021 in order to make their 
assessment.
What is apparent however is that Amtrust didnt respond to Mr B within the required 
timescale and as such I do think that Mr B could fairly conclude that the claim wasnt 
progressing.
On balance, however, I dont think that these two periods had a significant impact on the 
progress of the claims. The delays have been a matter of days, around a year apart. I cant 
see that these would have impacted on the likelihood that the legal claims being pursued by 
Mr and Mrs B being successful.
I do think though that the lack of contact when they expected it and the need to chase  
Amtrust for updates would have had an impact on Mr and Mrs B, causing them distress and 
inconvenience. In order to recognise this, Amtrust should pay £100 compensation to Mr and 
Mrs B.
Appointment of solicitors
Mr and Mrs Bs claims have been passed by Amtrust for assessments to a number of 
solicitors, with the movement of the claim being done at the request of Mr and Mrs B who 
indicated their lack of confidence in the solicitors for various reasons.
What I can see is that the communication of this has been done in line with what Id expect. 
Mr and Mrs B have been informed of the relevant terms and conditions for the appointment 
of solicitors. Amtrust also offered for Mr and Mrs B to have a preferred solicitor carry out the 
assessment, rather than one of its panel solicitors. They said theyd attempted to do so but 
had been unable to find solicitors who were willing to work within the terms set by Amtrust. It 
was suggested in email correspondence (but not documented) that solicitors had declined to 
work with Amtrust due to previous poor experiences.
Im satisfied that Amtrusts conduct in the appointment of solicitors to assess the claims was 
reasonable.
Disclosure of solicitors details
Mr B complains that Amtrust refused to disclose the name of the solicitors who completed 
the most recent assessment of the claims prospects of success. Amtrust says its provided 
him with the details of the assessment, including the reasons for their conclusions, but isnt 
obliged to disclose the name of the solicitors, citing legal privilege.
Im satisfied that Amtrust has provided Mr B a comprehensive summary of the solicitors 
opinion and the reasons why they dont consider the claim has reasonable prospects of 
success.
Legal privilege allows for communication between a legal professional and their clients to be 
withheld from third parties. The communications which can be withheld are those made for 
the purposes of seeking or giving legal advice. The name of the solicitors who gave the advice is contained in communications made for the purposes of Amtrust seeking, or the 
solicitors giving, legal advice. In this situation, Amtrust is the solicitors client  they were 
seeking legal advice to assess whether they should indemnify Mr and Mrs Bs legal 
expenses. I think its fair to say that Amtrust could withhold the solicitors details from Mr and 
Mrs B under this convention.
Handling and sharing of personal information
Mr B complains here about Amtrust sending information to the solicitors who assessed the 
second claim, which he says occurred without his consent.
Mr B completed two claim forms for the claims with Amtrust, and both of these included two 
declarations which said: I agree that this information can be forwarded to an appropriate 
third party but solely for the purposes of assisting or dealing with the claim
and
I also agree that the third party can disclose to Arc Legal any information it reasonably 
requests from them relating to my claim.
The effect of these declarations, Im satisfied, is that they allow for the sharing of information 
provided by Mr B during the claims to be shared with solicitors in order to assist with the 
assessment of the claims. I think it would be entirely understandable, reasonable and 
proportionate for Amtrust to need to share information with solicitors in order for properly 
reasoned and detailed legal assessments of claims to be completed.
After submitting the claim form, Mr B was informed that Amtrust had referred the matter to 
the solicitors whod completed the assessment of the first claim. He objected to this as he 
considered the solicitors would be biased due to an ongoing complaint about their conduct.
On 18 November 2021, Amtrust informed Mr B that they would pass the matter to a different 
solicitor to review the claim. On 29 November 2021, Mr B indicated that he didnt consent to 
the sharing of information with the solicitor.
Im therefore satisfied that Mr B only withdrew consent for the sharing of information with the 
solicitor after information had already been shared. Hed also consented to the sharing of 
that information as part of the claim submission.
It would seem to me that it wouldnt be reasonable for Mr B to withdraw his consent for 
information to be shared with solicitors (who need the information to be able to complete the 
assessment) while also seeking cover from Amtrust for the claim. I havent seen any 
explanation for how it was anticipated that solicitors could complete the assessment if 
Amtrust didnt share information with them.
Amtrust has said that it sent further information to the solicitors in January 2022 (this being 
after Mr B had indicated his withdrawal of consent to share information). This was the claim 
form completed for the second claim (the claim form from the first claim had already been 
sent). This was done to allow the solicitors to review the information contained within it and 
assess whether anything within it altered their view that the claim submitted didnt enjoy 
reasonable prospects of success.
Im satisfied that Amtrust could reasonably send this to the solicitors, notwithstanding what 
Mr B had said previously. I say this for two reasons. The first is that I cant see that theres 
any personal information contained in this claim form which wasnt already available to the 
solicitors, through the documents and information it had been disclosed prior to Mr Bs withdrawal of consent. The second is that it was done for Mr Bs possible benefit  the 
solicitors had previously stated the claim didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success and 
Amtrusts sending of this document was done to see if this would change anything to give a 
positive assessment.
The response to my provisional decision
Both Mr B and Amtrust responded to my provisional decision.
Mr B didnt accept my provisional findings. He said that it was unreasonable for the 
information from the first claim to be provided to the solicitors reviewing the second claim as 
the claim was fundamentally different. Mr B also said that express consent to share data was 
withdrawn but Amtrust shared data after this. 
Finally, Mr B didnt believe that the £100 compensation Id recommended was acceptable. 
He said that due to the poor handling of the claim hed suffered huge upset and wasted a lot 
of time.
Amtrust also didnt accept my recommendation around compensation, but it said that it 
shouldnt be required to pay any compensation to Mr and Mrs B. 
Amtrust said that the first delay, when the legal opinion wasnt provided in the timescale 
which the solicitors indicated, wasnt something it should be liable for, and that as the legal 
advisor had informed Mr B of its timescales, it was open to Mr B to contact the solicitors 
directly to chase this up.
Amtrust thought that the second delay which was noted was only for two working days 
beyond its service level agreements. It said it considered the impact of the delays to have 
been minor and that compensation wasnt warranted because of this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the further points raised by Mr B and Amtrust, and reviewed the 
information available to me. I remain satisfied with my provisional findings and dont believe 
that anything has been provided which leads me to change my decision.
The matters related to the appointment of the solicitors and the disclosure of solicitors 
details havent been addressed by either party, so I dont intend to go over these again, 
except to say that my opinion hasnt changed.
I note Mr Bs very strong belief that the provision of all of the information to the solicitors who 
completed the assessment of the second claim was inappropriate and led to irrelevant 
information being provided. I cant agree with him however that the second claim was 
fundamentally different to the first. Both claims related to disputes with Mr and Mrs Bs 
neighbour, and the neighbours use of their property. The exact details of the disputes were 
different, in that new nuisances and trespasses were being alleged by Mr and Mrs B. 
I cant agree that it was inappropriate for the solicitors to be provided with all of the 
information Amtrust had been provided about the various disputes with the neighbour, 
regardless of the exact claims being made by Mr and Mrs B. As I said in my provisional 
decision, Im satisfied that a properly qualified legal professional would be able to review the 
information to assess what was relevant to their considerations. I also think its fair to say the person assessing the claim would want to have as much information as possible, and 
everything available to Amtrust, to make a properly reasoned determination about the 
prospects of success of the claim.
Turning to the allegation of the data breach, I acknowledge that after Mr and Mrs B withdrew 
consent for their data to be shared, Amtrust did provide a copy of the claim form to the 
solicitors which it hadnt done before. As I outlined in my provisional decision though, I dont 
think this was a breach of any data rights as the personal data contained in that form had, 
from what I can see, already been provided to the solicitors in other forms. The sharing of 
that information had been done before Mr and Mrs B withdrew their consent. Im satisfied 
that when personal data was initially shared with the solicitors, there was no reason for 
Amtrust to know or believe that Mr and Mrs B didnt consent for this to happen.
Finally, Ill address why I think that compensation should be paid to Mr and Mrs B, and why 
£100 is a fair amount in the circumstances. I know that Mr B dont think that the amount is 
sufficient to recognise the upset and time theyve spent on this matter. However, Amtrust is 
only liable for avoidable delays, and for distress and inconvenience that its actions have 
caused. Ive outlined previously why, for the most part, I think Amtrusts handling of the claim 
was acceptable, even though I appreciate Mr B doesnt agree with this.
I still think however that the two occasions Ive identified where the claims could have been 
handled better remain the responsibility of Amtrust. I note that the delay in the legal opinion 
being provided was due to the solicitors completing the assessment. However, its also clear 
that Amtrust had been told by the solicitors when they would send the assessment, and also 
how often Mr B was contacting Amtrust for updates and his dissatisfaction with the process 
was well known and documented at that point. As I said previously, in the circumstances I 
think its fair to say that Amtrust could have been more pro-active about chasing the  
solicitors once the date which had been given for the assessment to be provided had 
passed. While Amtrust isnt liable for the delay in the assessment being provided, I think it is 
liable for not chasing this up and updating Mr B sooner.
Im also conscious that the second delay was a matter of days, and didnt significantly affect 
the progress of the claim. However, it doesnt seem to be disputed that correspondence from 
Mr B wasnt acknowledged as it should have been, and in that time he then sent further 
emails asking for updates. 
While the impact of these delays on the progress of the claims was, Im satisfied, minimal, 
the impact on Mr and Mrs B was more than this. While Amtrust may consider that they had 
unreasonable expectations around the process of the claims, it is clear to me that Mr and 
Mrs B felt very strongly about the importance of progressing the claims and resolving the 
disputes with their neighbour. Delays which occurred to the claims would therefore cause 
them distress, and then they were inconvenienced by feeling it was necessary to chase 
Amtrust for updates having not heard anything, given their desire to move matters forward. 
If the claims had been handled as they should have been, this could have been avoided. 
This is why I consider Amtrust should pay £100 compensation to Mr and Mrs B.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint in part. In order to put things right, Amtrust 
Europe Limited must pay Mr and Mrs B £100 compensation.
Amtrust Europe Limited must pay this amount within 28 days of us telling it that Mr and Mrs 
B accept my decision. If it does not, it must pay simple interest at a rate of 8% per year on 
this amount from that date until the date of settlement.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman