DRN-1700668
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC sent him a letter by post which could have been 
opened by a family member sharing the same name as him.
What happened
Mr M says he has been making repayments to Lloyds for a credit card debt and after each 
payment has asked Lloyds to reduce his credit limit. He says Lloyds normally then sends 
him a text message to confirm the reduction but in February 2020 it wrote to him. Mr M says 
a family member lives at his address and shares a name with him and that person could 
have opened his letter and seen his personal information. He says that has impacted on his 
personal space and was insensitive and would like compensation for the trouble and upset 
he has been caused. Mr M accepts some regulatory letters have to be sent but says this 
letter was just information about a credit limit decrease and he was set up for paperless 
communication. 
Lloyds says it's updated its records but says on occasions a text message doesn't get sent 
and so it would then write to a customer about these sorts of matters. It says it isn't 
responsible for the fact that Mr M shares a name with his family member within the same 
address. Lloyds also says its obliged to tell customers about credit limit changes.
Mr M was unhappy with that response and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint and didn't uphold it. The investigator looked at the letter that was 
sent and didn't think there was any information on it about the amount Mr M owed and that it 
only contained details of the new credit limit. The investigator didn't think in any event the 
letter had been opened by Mr M's family member.
Mr M doesn't accept that view and says Lloyds was aware of the name problem and that it 
was a violation to send him a letter when he was registered paperless. He says to someone 
that knows him it would have been obvious the letter meant he was in debt. And he didn't 
want anyone to know about his debt. He says a breach has taken place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for similar reasons that Lloyds hasn't made a mistake or 
acted unfairly.
I appreciate Mr M shares a name with a family member that lives at the same address and I 
think it likely in those circumstances that any mail addressed to Mr M's home runs the risk of 
being opened by the wrong person. Its not clear why Mr M didn't register his full name 
including middle name with Lloyds to avoid this problem. But having looked at Lloyds 
records I can't see that was the case or that there is a record of Lloyds being aware of this 
issue.In any event there is no dispute here that the letter Lloyds sent to Mr M was opened by him 
and not anyone else. So I don't think anyone saw the contents of the letter and that Mr M's 
complaint is that someone could have but didn't. I'm satisfied that the contents of the letter 
remained private and I can only consider what did take place and not what may have.
I have looked at the contents of the letter Lloyds sent Mr M and I'm satisfied the letter simply 
confirms that the credit limit has been reduced and what the new limit is. I think Lloyds is 
obliged under its regulatory duties to provide its customers with such information. And I don't 
think the letter contained any information about the level of Mr M's debt. I also think it likely 
Lloyds had written to Mr M about his debt which would have contained far more information 
about it in the past and I can see that Mr M accepts such letters must be sent.
Overall I'm satisfied Lloyds has written to its customer Mr M using the correct name and 
address it held for him. I'm also satisfied that Lloyds isn't responsible for the name problem 
and its up to Mr M to provide Lloyds with further information which could allow him and his 
family member to distinguish letters addressed to them. I find that Lloyds has acted fairly and 
hasn't made a mistake and so can't order it to pay Mr M the compensation he would like. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman