DRN-2818494
The complaint
Mr P complains about how Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance treated him, when he made a subject access request. 
What happened
In early 2019, Mr P bought a new kitchen from a high street supplier. To pay for the kitchen 
and its fitting, Mr P agreed to take out a fixed sum loan with Clydesdale. When the supplier 
began work on the new kitchen, Mr P had concerns with the quality of the units and how it 
was being installed. 
Over the following ten months Mr P exchanged several telephone calls, emails and letters 
with the supplier and Clydesdale to try and resolve his concerns. Mr P wasnt satisfied with 
what was being done to put things right and says he was considering taking legal action. 
Mr P was also unhappy that Clydesdales Welfare Support Team werent helping to resolve 
his dispute about the quality of the kitchen and the installation. To help him gather 
documents for any legal action, in December 2019 Mr P says he made a Subject Access 
Request (SAR) to both the supplier and Clydesdale.
Although the supplier responded within a month, Mr P says Clydesdale took considerably 
longer. He says he contacted Clydesdale in March 2020 to follow up his request, but they 
told him they had no record of his SAR. Around a month later, Clydesdale acknowledged 
that Mr P had made an SAR, apologised for not taking action and paid £250 to Mr P for the 
inconvenience caused. Clydesdale also said they would provide Mr P with the SAR in the 
following thirty days.
By early June 2020, Mr P still hadnt heard from Clydesdale about his SAR, so he brought 
his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into Mr Ps complaint and asked 
Clydesdale about the SAR. Clydesdale agreed that no action had been taken and in 
December 2020, they sent the SAR information to Mr P. 
The investigator concluded that Clydesdale had caused delays with the SAR and hadnt 
treated Mr P fairly. But, the investigator didnt think Clydesdale should make a further award 
to Mr P. The investigator thought the £250 payment was sufficient, considering what Mr P 
had told us about the impact the delay had on him. 
Additionally, the investigator found that Clydesdales Welfare Support Team was there to 
help customers in financial difficulty, rather than with complaints about faulty goods. As Mr P 
wasnt struggling with his repayments, the investigator said there wouldnt have been much 
more Clydesdale could have done, even if they had spoken to Mr P more regularly.
Mr P didnt accept this and his case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Subject Access Request
Mr P made an SAR to both the supplier and Clydesdale in December 2019. Clydesdale 
confirmed their receipt of the request, in their letter to Mr P of 20 April 2020. Mr P has also 
provided a very detailed timeline, which covers his correspondence with the suppler and 
Clydesdale.
I can also see from Clydesdales records that Mr P followed up his request for information in 
January and March 2020. It was at this point Clydesdale wrote to Mr P and asked for 
additional identification, in order for the SAR to be progressed.
The following month, I can see that Clydesdale told Mr P he could expect the SAR by around 
the middle of May 2020. But, it wasnt until December 2020 and after our involvement, when 
Clydesdale eventually sent the information to Mr P.
Overall, it took a year for Clydesdale to send the SAR to Mr P, Usually, requests like this can 
take around a month. So, I think Clydesdale caused a significant delay in sending the 
information to Mr P.
Having considered everything, I do think Mr P was put to distress and inconvenience by 
Clydesdale. So, Ive gone on to think about Clydesdales actions to put things right. Ive 
considered that against the background of the very difficult personal circumstances Mr P has 
told us about, and what he had told Clydesdale during his complaint.
Mr P has explained that he needed the information from the SAR, to help him prepare for 
any legal action he may choose to take. He says that the delay caused by Clydesdale added 
to the frustration he had already experienced with the concerns he had about the kitchen.
I acknowledge that the delay in providing information from the SAR caused added frustration 
to Mr P. I think waiting a year for an SAR is unreasonable. But, I can see from Mr Ps 
records that he kept very detailed notes of the conversations he had and copies of various 
email exchanges. I can also see that Clydesdale had sent him other letters about the 
problems he had identified with the kitchen.
In all the circumstances, I think Mr P was put to some inconvenience by Clydesdale. But, I 
think this was tempered by the action Mr P had taken himself and the correspondence 
Clydesdale had already sent to him. 
Having considered everything, I think the payment of £250 Clydesdale made to Mr P in April 
2020 is fair. So, I agree with the investigator, in that I dont think it would be fair to ask 
Clydesdale to increase that award.
Clydesdales Welfare Support Team
By July 2019, Mr P had made his concerns about the quality of the kitchen known to both the 
supplier and Clydesdale. I can see from Mr Ps own records and Clydesdales contact notes, 
that his concerns were being discussed and considered.
Around this time, Mr P also spoke to Clydesdales Welfare Support Team. Ive listened to 
one of the first telephone calls Mr P had with that team. Having done so, I think the majority 
of the call was about Mr Ps ongoing dispute with the quality of the kitchen. The call handler 
didnt fully explain the purpose of the Welfare Support Team, only that Mr P was better 
talking about his concerns regarding the kitchen, with a Clydesdale complaint handler.Clydesdale have since explained that the Welfare Support Team are there to help a 
customer who is vulnerable or is struggling to make their monthly payment. Mr P wasnt 
explicitly told that, during his first call with that team. But, neither was Mr P struggling to meet 
his monthly commitment to Clydesdale. Overall, I think the call handler treated him fairly, by 
putting Mr P back in contact with someone who could help with his main concern about the 
kitchen.
Mr P spoke to the Welfare Support Team again in December 2019. Ive listened to this call 
and I think that this time the call hander made clear, the kind of help they could provide to 
Mr P. The call handler also discussed how often they could contact Mr P. I think it was here, 
where Mr P felt the Welfare Support Team had let him down, as they hadnt offered him 
regular support calls in the past.
But, I think the call handler outlines the differences between a customer needing support 
with financial difficulties and a customer with concerns about the quality of an item 
purchased using finance. So, I think Clydesdale treated Mr P fairly here and gave an 
appropriate explanation of what the Welfare Support Team would be able to help with.
Ive looked at the correspondence with Clydesdale from around this time. I think Mr Ps 
understanding was that he was missing out on potential support with his claim about the 
kitchen. Having considered everything though, I dont think the Welfare Support Team were 
best placed to help resolve the issues with the kitchen.
In all the circumstances, I think Mr Ps concerns about the quality of the kitchen were being 
handled separately to the assistance considered by Clydesdales Welfare Support Team. I 
think Mr P was treated fairly when he did talk to the Welfare Support Team. So, I dont think 
Clydesdale need to take any further steps such as increasing the award theyve already paid 
to Mr P.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint  in the sense that I dont require 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance to take any 
further action to settle this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman