DRN-2416652
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited, trading as Cashplus, signed him 
up for a Credit Builder loan account, which Mr G was unaware of. Mr G is also unhappy that 
this account has since gone into default and has had an impact on his credit file.
What happened
Mr G says he first became aware that Cashplus had opened a Credit Builder loan account in 
his name when he received a default notice on 21 November 2019. Mr G contacted 
Cashplus about this shortly after receiving the default notice, and later made a complaint to 
Cashplus in March 2020.
Cashplus didnt uphold the complaint. They said that Mr G had actively applied for the 
account and also that they had sent several communications to Mr G to alert him that the 
payments had been missed.
Mr G wasnt happy with this response and referred the matter to our service. One of our 
investigators looked at this complaint, but they agreed with Cashplus position and so they 
didnt uphold the complaint either.
Mr G remained dissatisfied and so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so I have reached the same conclusion as our investigator, for essentially the same 
reasons. 
Cashplus records show that Mr G previously applied for a Credit Builder loan on 1 June 
2018, but Cashplus later cancelled this account when Mr G made no repayments to it as 
they believed that Mr G must have applied for this account in error. However, the Credit 
Builder loan was applied for again by Mr G on 12 April 2019, and Cashplus have confirmed 
that in this instance the account would have had to have been applied for online via the 
online backing app and the terms and conditions of the account agreed to by Mr G. 
Cashplus have also provided a copy of the electronic application form completed by Mr G 
which is signed and dated 12 April 2019. 
Considering the above, I hope that Mr G can understand how its difficult for me to reach any 
conclusion other than that Mr G did actively apply for the Credit Builder loan account. Its 
what the evidence shows me, and I havent been provided with anything that contradicts this 
or makes me doubt it. I know that Mr G said that he was going to provide further information 
to our investigator after they told him their thoughts on the complaint, but he hasnt done that 
despite us asking several times. So, I must decide this case based on the evidence I do 
have. 
Cashplus have also been able to provide confirmation that, when the scheduled payments 
werent made, they sent emails to Mr G to alert him to this. Cashplus attempting to contact 
Mr G to advise him of the missed payments is what we would expect in this situation, and 
given that the email address that these messages were sent to matches the email address 
our service has used to successfully communicate with Mr G, it seems reasonable to 
conclude that these emails were received by Mr G. Cashplus have also been able to 
demonstrate that several of these emails were opened.
I can understand Mr Gs frustration that Cashplus have recorded a default against his credit 
file, and it may well be that Mr G didnt fully realise the implications of the account he had 
signed up for. But the information I have available to me appears to confirm that Mr G did 
actively apply for this account, and that Cashplus made reasonable attempts to contact Mr G 
when the scheduled account payments were missed. 
My role here is to assess whether Cashplus have acted improperly or unfairly in how theyve 
managed this issue, and I cant say that they have in this instance. Cashplus have a 
responsibility to make accurate reports to credit reference agencies, and because the 
payments were missed, and Mr G ultimately defaulted on this agreement, thats what theyve 
done here.
To summarise, considering all of the above, I cant fairly say that Cashplus have acted 
wrongly or inappropriately here. It follows that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking 
Cashplus to take any further action at this time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman