DRN-3633086
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) downgraded his
branded Premium Plus credit card when he applied for a second credit card with the same
brand. Mr M is also unhappy with the service hes received from Amex and with how they
handled a Credit Balance Refund (CBR).
 
What happened
On 15 July 2019 Mr M applied for a standard branded credit card online through his account
on the Amex website. Mr M says he received a message at the end of the application that a
decision could not be made immediately, and hed be contacted within 10 days.
Amex confirm Mr Ms Premium Plus credit card was downgraded to the standard credit card
on 16 July 2019.
Amexs submissions state that on 18 July 2019 Mr M requested to transfer a credit balance.
This related to a separate non-branded card Mr M also held with Amex, which was Mr Ms
Gold credit card. Mr Ms Gold credit card statement dated 24 August 2019 showed a credit
balance of £691.72 being refunded on 29 July 2019.
When Mr M didnt hear from Amex after 10 days following his application on 15 July 2019,
he says he called Amex on 7 August 2019 to find out what was happening. Mr M says he
was told an individual could not hold two credit cards with this brand, so the application for
the standard credit card had been treated as a request to downgrade his existing Premium
Plus credit card. Mr M says if hed known he could not have two branded credit cards then
he would not have applied for the new credit card as he would rather have kept his Premium
Plus account. Mr M says at this point he registered a complaint. Amex have said they have
no call recording or record of contact from Mr M on 7 August 2019.
On 19 August 2019 Amexs notes record Mr M contacted them to enquire about the CBR as
he had not received it. Amex said they could not find a Gold account for Mr M, so Mr M
asked them to contact him when the CBR had been completed.
The following day - 20 August 2019 - Mr M called Amex again, this time to enquire what was
happening with his complaint. However, it appears the complaint hadnt been logged. During
this call Amex notes the staff member tried to resolve things and upgrade Mr Ms account
back to Premium Plus, but they couldnt do this due to a problem with Amexs systems. Mr M
was informed he would need to put in another request to get the Premium Plus credit card
back. As nothing appeared to have progressed with the complaint, Amex escalated Mr Ms
concerns.
On 23 August 2019 someone from Amex called Mr M to say they accepted his Premium
Plus credit card should not have been downgraded. Mr M was offered 3,000 points for his
credit card as a gesture of goodwill. Mr M was also told at this time that to reinstate the
Premium Plus credit card he would need to call back separately and complete a new
application.
Mr M was unhappy with this proposed resolution. He said the number of points offered did
not take into account the points and benefits he had missed out on while his Premium Plus
credit card had been downgraded, and a new application would leave an unnecessary 
footprint on his credit file.
On 24 September 2019 Amex issued Mr M with their final response to his complaint and
explained theyd not done anything wrong in treating Mr Ms application on 15 July 2019 as a
request to downgrade his existing Premium Plus account. Amex said this was their process,
and it had been followed correctly. Amex also said theyd not done anything wrong with
regards to the CBR as they had paid this where theyd been asked to, and Mr M would
therefore need to contact the financial institution where the money had been sent to. Amex
did however agree that their level of service had not been good enough at times and offered
Mr M £100 as a gesture of goodwill.
Further exchanges between Mr M and Amex followed the final response letter, but nothing
was resolved and so Mr M referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator reviewed Mr Ms complaint. To summarise, they didnt think Amex had done
enough to make it clear to Mr M that by submitting an application for a standard credit card
this would be treated as a downgrade of his existing Premium Plus credit card. To put things
right the investigator proposed that Amex reinstate Mr Ms Premium Plus account  subject
to Mr M reviewing the terms and conditions of the account  and that there should be no
trace of the new application on his credit file. The investigator also said Amex should
increase their offer of £100 to £150.
Exchanges with the parties followed the investigators view. Mr M did not accept the
proposed resolution as he did not feel an additional £50 would prompt Amex to change their
practices. Mr M said he would agree to settle the matter with an increased offer of reward
points for his credit card. Amex accepted the proposed additional £50, and they said if Mr M
was to call Amex, an application for a Premium Plus account could be carried out manually
with no real impact to his credit file. Amex did not agree to increasing the offer of reward
points for Mr M.
As a resolution could not be reached the complaint was passed to me to decide, and
some additional information was obtained to assist my considerations. Amex confirmed
Mr Ms application for the new credit card was made online and that because of how the
application had been made there would have been nothing to connect the application to
Mr Ms existing branded Premium Plus account until the accounts team matched the two
sets of details. So at the point of sale Amex says there would have been no indication of a
Premium Plus Card already being active, so there wouldve been no requirement to explain
the need for a downgrade.
Amex also confirmed a credit to Mr Ms account for £8.54  against the entry Annual
Membership Fees- was most likely the pro-rata refund of the fee for the Premium Plus
account when it was downgraded. And they confirmed the credit balance refund was made
on 29 July 2019  although they offered no further detail on this. Lastly, Amex confirmed
Mr Ms account was cancelled around 21 October 2021  this was due to non-use of the
standard branded credit account as Mr M had not used the account for two years.
I issued my provisional findings to both parties which are copied here. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.It appears to me Mr Ms main concern is that it wasnt clear to him that by applying for a new
branded credit card account in July 2019 this would in effect downgrade his existing
Premium Plus account with the same brand.
Amex has said that as Mr M applied online for the new account it would not have been
possible for their systems to link Mr Ms new application to his existing account, so there
would have been no way to explain the need for a downgrade at the time of the application.
And looking online, I have not found any information for customers confirming that it is not
possible to hold two branded cards at the same time. Although I do note the eligibility criteria
excludes any Welcome Bonus for someone who has held a personal Amex card in the past
24 months.
On review of the evidence and submissions made available to me, Ive found it difficult to
see where an existing Amex customer with a branded credit card would learn that they are
only entitled to one branded card at a time. So its difficult for me to say this was something
that was made clear to Mr M at the time of applying for the second branded credit card in
July 2019.
Mr M has maintained throughout that he was never made aware that he could only hold one
branded account. He has said if hed known this, he would have retained his existing
Premium Plus account.
Mr M has said the reason for taking out the second branded credit card was to keep certain
transactions separate. Mr M had held another credit card with Amex, his Gold card, but he
cancelled this around the time of submitting the application in July 2019 for the new branded
card. I have no reason to doubt that Mr M still wanted to have two separate credit cards (the
new branded card in addition to his branded Premium Plus card) and I suspect his decision
to cancel the Gold card and take out a second branded card was to take advantage of the
reward points associated with the branded cards.
So, taking this all into account, I think it more likely than not that had Mr M been made aware
that he could not hold two branded credit cards with Amex at the same time, he would at the
very least have kept his branded Premium Plus card.
Because of this, I think Amex does need to put things right for Mr M. I note from the
submissions it seems Mr M has had access to another credit card over the last two years so
I cannot say whether Mr M may still have cancelled his Gold card or not  that said, as
Mr Ms complaint is not about cancelling his Gold card, Ive not considered this.
In relation to the Premium Plus credit card, and given the time thats now passed, I cannot
insist that Amex reinstate Mr Ms Premium Plus account. To act as a responsible lender
Amex will need to ensure they are meeting their regulatory responsibilities and obligations
when deciding to lend. However, I would expect Amex to be mindful of the situation they
appear to have created when considering Mr Ms application.
I understand Mr M does not wish there to be any record of a credit application on his credit
file because of whats happened. I realise why Mr M has said this, and Amexs earlier
submissions suggest this may have been possible for them to do if Mr M had called them
and manually gone through the process with Amex rather than applying online. However, it
has now been some time since these events took place and Mr Ms branded credit card with
Amex was cancelled in October 2021, so I have to consider that the circumstances have
changed since our investigator first looked at the case. And I dont think it would be
reasonable for there to be no trace of a new application.
To put things right Mr M says Amex should give him reward points for the period of time hedid not hold his Premium Plus account. I realise these reward points are important to Mr M 
particularly as I believe this is the main reason he wished to have these branded cards. I
realise Mr M believes it would be fair to review his previous spending in order to calculate
the appropriate number of reward points, but Im not persuaded this would be a fair thing to
do. Im mindful that Mr M chose not to spend on his downgraded branded credit card for two
years which also could  although not at the same level as a Premium Plus account  have
accrued reward points. Theres also no guarantee what Mr Ms spending would have been,
particularly over the last two years given the impact of the global pandemic. And I cant
ignore that Mr M may have perhaps been benefiting from the other credit card I believe he
has been using during the time in question instead.
That said, should Mr Ms application for a Premium Plus branded credit card be successful,
Amex should ensure the 3,000 reward points previously given as a gesture of goodwill are
reinstated  as I cannot see that Mr M has used them already.
Ive also reviewed Amexs information about the branded cards online and I can see a new
customer applying for a branded card is potentially given a Welcome Bonus in the form of
reward points  subject to the offers terms and conditions. It appears that to be eligible for
such a bonus the applicant cannot hold or have held a branded Amex card product in the
past 24 months.
While Mr M has held an Amex branded card in the last 24 months, Amex have confirmed
Mr M did not use it during that time, and it has already been several months since it was
cancelled. So, from what Ive seen, should Mr Ms application be successful I think it would
be fair to treat Mr M as a new customer and Amex should consider Mr M eligible for any
Welcome Offer, subject to the usual terms and conditions for the Welcome Offer.
I think this is a fair resolution to this part of Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M also raised concerns about how Amex handled things for him  including telephone
calls not being returned and being kept updated. Amex initially reviewed Mr Ms concerns
and agreed that at times they did not provide Mr M with a level of service they were happy
with. For this reason they offered Mr M £100. Amex has let our service know that the calls in
question are no longer available, so there is little more for me to consider here. Our
investigator proposed a further £50 be paid to Mr M and I understand Amex issued a
cheque, and Mr M has since banked this.
Mr M has said the additional £50 isnt enough to prompt Amex to change their practices. I
realise Mr M is frustrated with whats happened, but it may help to explain that our service is
set up to resolve individual disputes on the basis of what is fair and reasonable in the
circumstances of the case. It is not to fine or punish businesses or change their practices 
that is the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. However, we do expect
businesses to reflect on the decisions our service reaches.
I understand Mr M has found Amex unhelpful, and while there is limited evidence Amex does
accept there were times they did not contact Mr M when they should have. But I can also
see that Amex attempted to resolve things for Mr M over the phone on 20 August 2019 by
looking to upgrade the card again  although the system is noted as having failed on that
day. And Mr M was told on more than one occasion to contact Amexs customer services to
discuss upgrading the account again  Ive not seen any record that Mr M attempted to do
this. From what Ive seen so far, I am minded to award a further £100 to Mr M to reflect the
inconvenience this matter has caused him.
Lastly, Mr M mentioned that he did not receive a CBR when he asked for it. As I set out
earlier in the background to this complaint, Amexs submissions  supported by a copy ofMr Ms Gold card account statement  shows that the refund was carried out. I note Mr M
himself accepts he mistakenly asked the refund to go to an account he had closed. Amex
have said they have no record of the funds being returned and in their final response letter
told Mr M to go to his previous bank. Amex have more recently confirmed they have no
further details relating to the CBR other than what has previously been said, and it doesnt
appear to me, based on the available submissions and evidence so far, that Amex have
done anything wrong here as they actioned Mr Ms request within a reasonable time.
Overall, I dont think Amex was clear enough to Mr M about what would happen to his
existing Premium Plus account when he applied for his new standard credit card. Based on
my review of the complaint, I think its fair to say Mr M would have more likely than not
retained his existing Premium Plus account  so I think Amex needs to do something to put
things right.
Putting things right 
Given the time passed, this is not an easy thing to now put right, particularly given Mr Ms
relationship with American Express Services Europe Limited appears to have ended some
time ago when his last account was closed with them. So any application now will be a new
application with Mr M as a new customer, not an existing customer.
I would add that American Express Services Europe Limited have a responsibility to
correctly report credit information about their customers to the credit reference agencies. So
I dont think it would be fair for there to now be no trace of a new application on Mr Ms credit
file. And any new account would need to be reported.
In view of the above, Im minded to say American Express Services Europe Limited should:
Fairly consider an application from Mr M for a Premium Plus branded credit card.
If the above application is successful, and if Mr M has not used them already -
reinstate the 3,000 reward points previously offered.
If the above application is successful, accept Mr M as eligible for any Welcome Offer,
subject to the usual terms and conditions of the offer itself.
Pay Mr M a further £100 to reflect the inconvenience this matter has caused him.
I understand Mr M has already received £150 to recognise that American Express Services
Europe Limited could have better engaged with him during these events. And to recognise
the inconvenience this matter has caused Mr M, I think American Express Services Europe
Limited should pay Mr M a further £100. I dont think more is warranted given Mr M was
made aware earlier on how he could reinstate his Premium Plus account and it does not
appear he attempted to do this.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr M replied to my provisional decision and said weight appeared to have been placed on 
Amexs offer to resolve the issue, but he was told by Amex it could only be done by leaving 
an additional credit footprint on his credit file which he felt was unfair. And the offer to 
resolve things was only made on one occasion with the suggestion to call Amexs customer 
service phone line. Mr M said he struggled to get through to do this and Amex staff werent 
able to do anything when he did get through as they couldnt see any record or offer to 
reinstate the account. 
Mr M said no weight should therefore be placed on Amexs offer to resolve things given 
theyve been incredibly slow and disorganised and they were keen to pass the case to the ombudsman. Mr M said he therefore did not think Amexs attempts to resolve things had 
been fair, reasonable or practical. 
Despite attempts to contact Amex, disappointingly they did not reply to my provisional 
decision with any further submissions or evidence for me to consider. And the deadline for 
them to respond to my provisional findings has now passed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed Mr Ms most recent submissions, Ive decided not to alter the conclusions 
that I reached in my provisional findings. 
I understand Mr M feels less weight should be placed on Amexs attempts to resolve things 
for him, and Ive noted what hes said about attempting to call Amex to sort things out - I 
have no reason to disbelieve what Mr M has said about trying to reinstate his card. However, 
this isnt an easy matter to decide as Im sure Mr M can appreciate, as an independent party 
I was not privy to all the conversations he had with Amex. Im also mindful that the available 
evidence I have showing the contact Amex has recorded with Mr M unfortunately doesnt 
mention these attempts to call Amex specifically to reinstate his Premium Plus card. 
Amexs records show calls with Mr M where its noted he expressed his unhappiness about 
what happened and that as a resolution he wanted his card reinstated. And I can see that as 
well as what was set out in Amexs final response letter dated 24 September 2019, Amexs 
notes also record Mr M was told to call back to upgrade his account. 
As I set out in my provisional findings, the role of this service is to reach a fair and 
reasonable outcome in the circumstances of the individual complaint. And where something 
has gone wrong, our role is to put things right as far as it is reasonably possible to do so - it 
is not to fine or punish businesses. Given the submissions and evidence available to me in 
this matter, and taking into account what Mr M has said about his attempts to contact Amex, 
on balance and in the circumstances of this case theres not enough here for me to think the 
resolution proposed in my provisional findings is unfair or unreasonable. 
Taking all of the above into account, I think Amex could have been clearer with Mr M about 
what would happen when he applied for his new standard credit card and so Amex now 
needs to put things right. 
Putting things right
American Express Services Limited should put things right as Ive described in my 
provisional findings section putting things right above. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and American 
Express Services Limited should settle the matter in the way Ive described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Kristina MathewsOmbudsman