DRN-3691301
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BOS) acted irresponsibly in 
providing him with overdraft facilities and increasing his limit.
What happened
Mr S held two accounts with overdraft facilities with BOS. In May 2016 BOS agreed to 
increase the overdraft limit on both accounts to £1,500.
Mr Ss accounts were closed and transferred to BOSs recoveries team in April and May 
2017. 
Mr S complained to BOS in April 2022 that it should never have agreed an overdraft facility 
for him because it was unaffordable. BOS did not consent to this service looking at any 
applications prior to six years ago (April 2016).
BOS agreed that Mr Ss applications for increases to his overdraft limits in May 2016 should 
have been referred rather than approved and arranged to refund all charges incurred on 
both accounts from May 2016 amounting to £286 and £290, as well as making a 
compensation payment of £55 for its error. It also backdated the defaults on the accounts to 
August 2016 when it says it shouldve started closing Mr Ss accounts.
Mr S was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
adjudicators looked at Mr Ss complaint and thought that we could only look at Mr Ss 
accounts dating back to April 2016 as our rules usually only allow us to look at complaints 
made within six years of what is being complained about. 
As BOS had already agreed to settle the complaint by refunding all charges for the period 
we could look at they didnt think BOS needed to do anything more.
Mr S was dis-satisfied with this. He would like all charges refunded from the point he was 
approved for an overdraft and all adverse information removed from this point and has asked 
for an ombudsmans decision.
Why I think we can only look at part of your complaint
The rules applying to this service say that, I cant look at a complaint made more than six 
years after the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the 
complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. 
This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Mr S raised his complaint in April 2022 in relation to his overdrafts dating back 10 years. Six 
years before he raised his complaint is April 2016. And as Mr S wouldve been aware of how 
he was using his overdrafts and his limits from when he was granted them, I think Mr S 
ought to have known enough to decide whether it was sustainable and the charges BOS 
applied were unfair or causing financial difficulty. 
So, I dont think that three years from when he ought to be reasonably aware he had reason 
to complain provides Mr S with a longer period than the six year rule. So, I will only be 
looking at Mr Ss overdraft usage and charges applied from April 2016.
I can still look into Mr Ss complaint about his overdrafts outside this time if Im satisfied the 
failure to complain earlier was due to exceptional circumstances. Mr S hasnt told us about 
any exceptional circumstances that apply and as that is the case, I am unable to look at Mr 
Ss overdrafts and the charges applied before April 2016.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what BOS has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr S is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
Where a business accepts (or we decide) it did something wrong, wed expect the business 
to put the consumer in the position they would be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in 
an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a consumer in the position theyd now be in if they 
hadnt been charged the fees and given the credit they shouldnt have and we may award 
modest compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused.
So where a business provides a consumer with a credit facility which it shouldnt have wed 
typically expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any 
interest and charges on that credit. This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the 
interest and charges added to any credit from the point the lender ought to have realised the 
credit was wrongly provided. 
But I dont need to make a finding on this point as BOS has already done what Id expect it 
to do had I found it had lent irresponsibly from the point we are able to look back to (April 
2016). 
I understand Mr S is also unhappy about negative information being reported on his credit 
file and would like this information removed. But BOS does have a duty to make sure the 
information it reports on its customers affairs to the credit reference agencies it subscribes to 
is factually accurate and what BOS has reported is an accurate account of what wouldve 
happened if it had taken action when it shouldve.  
So, bearing all this in mind, Im satisfied that what BOS has already done for Mr S is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not requiring it to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Bank of Scotland plc has already done 
for Mr S is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. So Im not requiring it to do 
anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman