DRN-1087776
 
The complaint
Mr W complains about the mis-sale of a personal loan and irresponsible lending.
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr W has provided detailed submissions to support his complaint. Ive read and considered 
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what I 
think are the main issues.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr W says other lenders refused his loan applications at this time; that he had 
adverse information on his credit file and was experiencing financial difficulties. It 
may well be the case that other lenders declined Mr Ws loan applications. But that 
doesnt mean Clydesdale was obliged to do the same. Every lender will have its own 
different criteria for assessing a loan application and each lender is entitled to apply 
them.
Clydesdale was also entitled to rely on the information Mr W gave when applying for 
the loan and the result of its credit check. In his application Mr W said he was in long 
term full time employment. And the income and expenditure information he gave 
showed he had enough disposable to afford the loans repayments. It also carried out 
a credit check which didnt show any adverse information at that time. Mr W applied 
for a further loan about six months later which was declined.
Overall I think Clydesdales checks appear proportionate and reasonable. They 
suggested the loan was affordable and it didnt see any adverse information. As such 
I dont think Clydesdale did anything wrong in approving the loan application and on 
balance I dont think its lending was irresponsible as Mr W suggests. And I cant 
reasonably require it to do anything differently or to refund the interest paid on the 
loan as Mr W would like.
If Mr W is still experiencing financial difficulties he should contact Clydesdale to 
arrange an affordable repayment plan. And I would remind Clydesdale of its 
continuing obligation to treat him positively and sympathetically while he is 
experiencing financial difficulties.
 
For these reasons, although sympathising with the position Mr W is in, I do not uphold this 
complaint.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Clydesdale Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman