DRN-2841942
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs M complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly invoked the fraud 
condition on their policy.  
My reference to UKI in this decision includes those acting on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr G and Mrs M took out travel insurance with UKI and made a claim on it on 
10 December 2019  for a lost suitcase and its contents. They also provided documentation 
to support their claim on 3 and 16 January 2020. But UKI discovered a successful claim (for 
the same suitcase and its contents) had already been made and settled under Mr G and 
Mrs Ms home insurance policy, with an insurer Ill call Insurer C. So it carried out further 
checks, and discovered:
Mr G submitted the same claim to Insurer C on 31 December 2019 
Insurer C spoke to Mr G about settling the claim on 3 and 10 January 2020 
Insurer C had settled the claim by way of two payments to Mr G on 6 and 
13 January 2020
UKI spoke to Mr G on 24 January 2020 and put the above to him. Mr G provided a number 
of explanations about his knowledge of the settled claim with Insurer C, and following the call 
asked UKI to close his and Mrs Ms claim.
UKI rejected Mr G and Mrs Ms claim. It said a deliberate attempt had been made to benefit 
for the same items under different insurance policies and the fraud condition on Mr G and 
Mrs Ms policy had been invoked. It said it regarded the policy as cancelled, and would 
cancel any other active policies Mr G and Mrs M may have with it. And it said that the 
relevant authorities may be notified, and details of the matter shared with fraud prevention 
agencies. 
Mr G and Mrs M complained. They said they hadnt acted fraudulently, and Mr G was 
suffering from a number of medical conditions. But UKI didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr G 
and Mrs M referred their concerns to this service.
Our investigator looked at what had happened and agreed two claims for the same loss had 
been made with two different insurers. They acknowledged Mr G had asked UKI to cancel 
the claim, but said that had only happened after UKI had told him it knew about the claim 
with Insurer C. So, our investigator didnt think UKI had acted unreasonably, and didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld.
Mr G and Mrs M disagreed, they reiterated they hadnt acted fraudulently and said theyd 
told UKI to close the claim. They also disputed some of what had happened in the 
24 January 2020 call with UKI, and provided evidence of the government benefits they were 
in receipt of. So, as no agreement was reached the matter is for me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role within this complaint is not to decide whether Mr G and Mrs M acted fraudulently. 
Instead, it is to decide whether UKI fairly and reasonably declined this claim and took the 
action that it did on the basis that the fraud condition had been invoked. For the reasons I 
will go on to explain, I think it did. 
UKI has already highlighted the relevant fraud provisions in this policy:
You must be honest in your dealings with us at all times. We will not pay a claim that is in 
any way fraudulent, false, or exaggerated. If you, any person insured under this policy or 
anyone acting on your behalf attempts to deceive us or knowingly makes a fraudulent, false 
or exaggerated claim:
your policy may be cancelled
we may reject your claim and any subsequent claims
we may keep any premium you have paid
In the event of their being an attempt to deceive, or knowingly make a fraudulent, false or 
exaggerated claim, the policy also sets out the following: 
We have the right to cancel any other products you hold with us and share information 
about your behaviour with other organisations to prevent further fraud. [] We may also 
involve the relevant authorities who are empowered to bring criminal proceedings. [] If a 
fraudulent, false or exaggerated claim had been made under any other policy you hold with 
us, we may cancel this policy. 
Its clear from the available evidence in this complaint that the claims Mr G and Mrs M made 
with both UKI and Insurer C were for the same items  the suitcase and its specific contents. 
Mr G and Mrs M say they made two claims for the same loss because they wanted to see 
which insurer would pay out. And they say that they told UKI to withdraw their claim once 
Insurer C had settled matters. I accept Mr G and Mrs M asked UKI to withdraw their claim, 
but that request came after UKI had spoken to Mr G on 24 January 2020 and had made its 
knowledge of the claim and settlement with Insurer C known. 
Ive listened to all of the calls available in this complaint (including the calls Mr G had with 
Insurer C). Within the 24 January 2020 call, Mr G gave UKI a very detailed history of the 
events leading up to the loss of the suitcase. And UKI gave Mr G plenty of opportunity to 
disclose the claim that had also been made, and at that point settled, with Insurer C. 
Specifically, UKI asked Mr G if he was aware of any other insurance held which may provide 
him with assistance, but Mr G said he didnt think so. And when UKI went on to explain that it 
had discovered another claim under Mr G and Mrs Ms home insurance with Insurer C, Mr G 
said he wasnt aware of it and explained his wife may have made it. 
Further, when UKI revealed it was aware Mr G had actually registered the claim with 
Insurer C himself, and he had further spoken to and recieved the settlement from Insurer C, 
Mr G provided a number of different explanations surrounding his knowledge of the claim 
and settlement. Some of the explanations he gave were that Mrs M was dealing with 
Insurer C, that he didnt recall speaking with Insurer C, and that Mrs M hadnt been able to 
check his bank account to confirm if Insurer Cs payments had been received. Mr G also 
said that two claims had been made because he and Mrs M had friends with prior 
experience of not receiving a full pay out. He further said that one item had not been claimed 
for  a bottle of aftershave. And said that he had a number of health conditions which affected his memory. 
To support the health conditions Mr G has, and which he and Mrs M say affected his 
memory, Mr G and Mrs M have provided evidence of the benefits they are in receipt of. I 
appreciate them providing this evidence, but I dont think their benefit information 
substantiates Mr G and Mrs Ms claim that Mr Gs memory affected his true recollection of 
the claim he himself had made, and had settled, with Insurer C. 
I also note that during the earlier parts of his call with UKI on 24 January 2020, and prior to 
UKI revealing its awareness of the other claim, Mr G was able to recall the events 
surrounding the loss of the suitcase and its contents in great detail. He was able to speak at 
length about the timeline of events that had happened on the day of the loss. He was also 
able to recall the particular items that had been lost, the origins and costs of those items, 
and the various individuals that had been involved in both the loss of and search for the 
suitcase. 
Mr G also demonstrated a good recall of events in his calls with Insurer C too. For example 
in the calls that I listened to he was able to recall the names of the different call handlers 
hed previously spoken to at Insurer C. He was able to recall the details of the items that had 
been claimed for. And when Insurer C named the third party it would be using to value some 
of the items claimed for (jewellery), Mr G was able to recall his past experience of having 
dealt with that third party in previous claims. 
So, I am not persuaded that Mr G and Mrs M have demonstrated that Mr G's memory (or his 
wider health) was the reason for him failing to disclose the claim hed already had settled 
with Insurer C at the point he spoke to UKI. And, as I think our investigator rightly explained, 
the request to cancel the UKI claim does appear to have been in reaction to UKI having 
disclosed its knowledge of Insurer Cs settlement. 
Having considered all of the available evidence and arguments in this complaint, I am 
satisfied that UKI acted both fairly and reasonably in concluding that the fraud condition on 
this policy had been breached; by attempting to benefit from the same items/loss twice. So, I 
will not be interfering with its decision. I realise Mr G and Mrs M will likely be further 
disappointed by this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman