DRN-3216969
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as Z, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC removed funds 
obtained through a Bounce Back Loan from its bank account. 
Zs directors, Mr and Mrs B, bring the complaint on the companys behalf. 
What happened
Z banked with Barclays. The company successfully applied to the bank for a Bounce Back 
Loan in September 2020, drawing down a loan of £33,000.
On 31 October 2020, Barclays initiated a review of Zs accounts and its Bounce Back Loan 
application. The bank restricted access to the accounts while it did so, meaning that the 
company couldnt utilise the funds held therein. Barclays lifted the account restrictions on 
15 December 2020. These actions are the subject of a separate complaint. 
On 19 January 2021, Barclays removed £12,572.71. When Z complained, the bank initially 
explained on 27 January that the funds had been removed pending a further review of Zs 
accounts. It subsequently explained on 20 February that its records showed that Z had 
incorrected attested for the Bounce Back Loan during the application process  so it had 
decided to recall the loan and use the funds towards the repayment of the outstanding 
balance.
Mr and Mrs B referred the matter to us. They wanted Barclays to return the loan funds and to 
compensate Z for the impact it had suffered as a result of their removal. They said the 
company had been left in financial difficulty and unable to meet its commitments.
One of our investigators reviewed Zs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Barclays had reviewed Zs eligibility for the Bounce Back Loan and reasonably 
concluded that it wasnt eligible. This was because the company had incorrectly 
declared an annual turnover of £330,000 when applying, for which there was no 
supporting evidence. While Mr and Mrs B said that that the turnover figure theyd 
used was based on expected income, estimates could only be used for companies 
established after 1 January 2019  which Z was not.
Barclays hadnt made an error in approving the loan initially, having done so on the 
basis of the declarations that Z had provided and confirmed as accurate.
As the loan had been provided on the basis of incorrect information that Z had given, 
Barclays was entitled to recall it. This was provided for in the terms of the Bounce 
Back Loan agreement.
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept our investigators view. They said that theyd used an estimated 
turnover figure as theyd believed this was acceptable, particularly as Z hadnt filed any 
accounts prior to the loan application. They also thought that Barclays shouldve notified the 
company after completing its first review in December 2020 that Z wasnt eligible for the 
loan  as if it had done so, they couldve returned more of the funds at that point. Theyd 
gone on to utilise some of the funds after the account restriction was lifted, thereby incurring 
more debt.
With no resolution, the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, an applicant could borrow up to a 
maximum of 25% of their annual turnover. On Zs behalf, Mrs B applied to Barclays for a 
loan of £33,000, so the company needed to have a turnover of at least £132,000. In the loan 
application she submitted, she declared a turnover of £330,000. So Barclays approved the 
application on this basis  with applicants required to self-declare that they met the eligibility 
criteria.
Although the loan was initially approved and drawn down, with some of the funds having 
been utilised, Barclays was entitled  and expected  to continue to keep matters under 
review. This is in line with its anti-fraud obligations both under the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme and its wider legal and regulatory requirements. So I dont think the bank did 
anything wrong in reviewing things in the matter it did.
Barclays ultimately concluded that Z wasnt eligible for the loan. And I think this decision was 
reasonable. The bank identified very little turnover going through Zs accounts with Barclays, 
and what income there was amounted to far less than the £330,000 figure declared in the 
loan application. It also identified that Z had filed dormant accounts with Companies House 
in each year since its incorporation  including that prior to the loan application.
I understand Mrs B used an estimated figure, based on projections of earnings from 
upcoming business. But only companies established during 2019 could use any projected 
figures. Z had been established several years prior to its application and was required, under 
the rules of the Scheme, to provide its annual turnover for the calendar year 2019. This was 
clearly explained in the application form that Mrs B completed.
Having decided that Z was ineligible for the loan, I think it was reasonable for Barclays to 
take steps to recover it. Under the terms and conditions of the Bounce Back Loan, Barclays 
was entitled to terminate the loan and demand its immediate repayment in certain 
circumstances. This included where any representations made by the borrower proved to be 
materially incorrect or misleading  as was the case here.
On the basis that it was recalling the loan, Barclays removed the funds held in Zs accounts 
before later applying these to the amount it owed under the Bounce Back Loan facility. 
Under the terms and conditions of Zs accounts and the loan agreement, Barclays had the 
right of set off  in short, it was entitled to use any funds held in Zs accounts to reduce or 
repay any amounts Z owed to the bank. So I dont think it did anything wrong in removing the 
funds from Zs account and using them in this way.
I understand Mr and Mrs B think Barclays shouldve removed the funds earlier than it did. 
They say Barclays shouldve notified them that Z wasnt eligible for the loan after it removed 
the restriction from the companys accounts in December 2020. But the bank hadnt yet 
decided what action it wished to take in light of its findings and wasnt obliged to notify the company of its deliberations. The companys indebtedness did not, therefore, increase as a 
result of an error on the banks part.
Taking all of the above into account, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong in recalling the 
Bounce Back Loan from Z. So Im not requiring it to take any action in response to this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman