DRN-3281899
The complaint
Mr P complains that Highway Insurance Company Limited (HICL) havent paid enough for 
his car when he claimed on his car insurance policy following an accident. 
For ease of reading, any reference to HICL includes their agents. 
What happened
Mr P bought a rare imported car, unfortunately due to the Government restrictions put into 
place because of Covid he wasnt able to collect the car for several months. When Mr P was 
able to collect the car from the dealership, he insured it was HICL. The next day Mr P was 
involved in an accident, so he claimed on his policy.
HICL reviewed the claim and accepted it. They said due to the damage to Mr Ps car it would 
be deemed a total loss. Because of the rarity of Mr Ps car and the age, as well as it being 
an imported model, the usual trade guides werent able to value it. Mr P had paid £8,999 for 
his car when he bought it. HICL offered Mr P £8,900 minus his policy excess in settlement of 
his claim. 
Mr P looked to replace his car but found that the prices had increased since he bought it. 
The dealership who sold him the car said it would now cost £12,000 to replace it with one 
which was similar. As HICL hadnt paid Mr P the market value of his car he complained. 
HICL reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. They said they looked for similar vehicles 
for sale and thought £8,900 was a fair value. Mr P didnt agree and referred his complaint 
here. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint and noted hed originally purchased an agreed 
value policy. However, as the agreed value hadnt been confirmed the policy said it would 
pay the market value. Our investigator found that two dealerships had said Mr P couldnt 
replace his car with the amount HICL had offered. One of the dealerships had a similar car 
for sale for £11,999 so our investigator recommended HICL paid Mr P £12,000 as the 
market value of his car. 
HICL didnt respond to our investigators findings so the complaint has come to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy say, in the event of a claim if the policy is not an 
agreed value policy then the most HICL will pay is the market value. The policy also says if it 
is an agreed value this will be recorded on the policy schedule. Ive reviewed the policy 
schedule Mr P has provided and it doesnt show that he has an agreed value policy. 
Therefore, HICL needs to pay Mr P the market value for his car. 
The terms and conditions of the policy say HICL will pay market value just before the loss or 
damage occurred. The policy doesnt define market value but in my experience market value 
usually means the cost of replacing the car with one of the same make, model, specification 
and mileage at the time of the loss. I can see Mr P paid £8,999 for his car and that hed 
agreed to buy it around four months before the accident. He then purchased the car and 
insured it. Unfortunately, he was involved in an accident which deemed the car a total loss 
the next day. 
Our service doesnt value cars. Instead we check to see that the insurers valuation is fair
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we tend to
use relevant trade guides. I usually find these persuasive as theyre based on nationwide
research of sales prices. However, in Mr Ps case the guides are unable to value his car due
to its age and rarity.
Ive noted the engineers report on Mr Ps car says: 
This vehicle is extremely rare in the UK, and from review of information 
held has only been in the UK for a few months.
Discussions with the owner have highlighted that he has recently paid 
£8900.00 for this vehicle and on research I have found an example that 
is in excess of this amount and in my opinion this is a reasonable 
valuation to place on this vehicle less any applicable excess.
From reading this it appears HICL have offered Mr P what he said he paid for it, albeit £99 
less. However, the engineer has also agreed the car is extremely rare and found an example 
being advertised for more. As the policy says it will pay the market value just before the loss 
thats what HICL needs to do, but Im not persuaded paying Mr P what he paid for the car is 
the fair market value. I say this because the market value is what it would cost Mr P to 
replace his car, and even from HICLs own engineer hes said the ones hes seen for sale are 
going for more. Im therefore not persuaded £8,900 is the market value of Mr Ps car at the 
time of loss. 
Ive also considered the testimonies from the two dealerships Mr P approached which also 
said he couldnt replace the car for what HICL offered. Im therefore persuaded £12,000 is a 
fair value to pay in this particular case, as its in line with the advert Mr P provided and what 
the dealerships have said and is therefore the market value of Mr Ps car. Therefore, HICL 
need to increase what theyve offered Mr P to £12,000, minus his policy excess. HICL should 
also add 8% simple interest per annum to the additional amount they pay to compensate Mr 
P for not having the money. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Highway Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr P £12,000 minus his policy excess in 
settlement of his claim. Highway Insurance Company Limited also needs to add 8% simple 
interest per annum to the additional amount they pay, calculated from the date of loss until 
the date of payment.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman