DRN-3791855
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the delays he experienced and the service he received when 
trying to transfer his stocks and shares ISA from Citibank UK Limited (Citibank) to another 
provider.
What happened
On 26 April 2021 Mr T gave Citibank instruction to transfer his stocks and shares ISA to 
another product provider that I shall refer to as Company A in this decision. At the point of 
bringing his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Mr T said the transfer hadnt been 
completed, Citibank had used the wrong class of share for three of his holdings, he had 
wrongly been charged custody fees and received very poor or no communication. 
Mr T complained to Citibank who partially upheld his complaint. It said it hadnt received the 
initial ISA instruction until 1 June 2021 and after the transfer was initiated by its custodian, 
18 of the 24 funds were settled within two weeks. The other six were settled at the time of its 
response and it said the delays with those were outside of its control. It outlined the fees he 
had been charged and explained that Company A wouldnt accept three of his clean 
holdings. The transfer had completed on 27 July but recognised the inconvenience caused 
and it offered payment because of that and to refund the costs of the six delayed transfers 
plus the custody fees incorrectly charged. 
Mr T didnt accept the offer and was in further contact with Citibank who responded saying 
the 0.21p showing on his General Investment Account (GIA) was because of a technical 
error, further explained the redress and responded to other points Mr T had made. During 
correspondence, different offers were made.
Mr T remained dissatisfied with the outcome and brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think that Citibank had 
acted fairly. He said;
He outlined the timings of the transfer between 26 April and 24 August 2021 as 
provided by Citibank and Company A. 
There had been an initial delay when Citibank hadnt received the mailed ISA transfer 
request, so it wasnt responsible for that period, but the investigator concluded it was 
responsible from 20 May 2021 as it was in receipt of the transfer request on that day. 
After that Citibanks counterparty initiated the transfer on 8 June. Some assets had to 
be written off or sold. Mr T was missing three contract notes for the three unclean 
investments, but the details of which were available online.
The cash was transferred within a reasonable timeframe on 18 June. The stock 
transfers were made in specie which meant Mr T wasnt out of the market, however, 
he did have to spend a reasonable amount of time chasing for updates but didnt 
receive the service expected. 
While the investigator couldnt find that Mr T had suffered a financial loss he was 
conscious of the impact of the delay, the custody fees that had been applied, lack of 
responses to Mr Ts requests and concerns about when the transfer would complete. 
Mr Ts GIA remained open with a cash balance of 0.21p which Citibank had said was 
a technical error. 
In conclusion, the investigator thought that Citibank had contributed to some of the 
delays to the transfer, failed to provide timely updates, or address Mr Ts concerns. 
To put that right the investigator thought Citibank should pay Mr T £500 for the 
distress and inconvenience he had been caused, refund the custody fees from June 
2021 onwards, issue contract notes for the sales and allow Mr T to close his account. 
Mr T didnt agree. He said he had spent over 200 hours dealing with his complaint which 
wasnt reflected in the £500. He was still awaiting outstanding information from Citibank 
including contract notes. 
Citibank belatedly responded to the investigator saying it accepted the suggested outcome 
as detailed in his assessment letter. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a decision. Mr T 
provided me with an account of the errors that had occurred and how he wanted the matter 
put right. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, and broadly for the 
same reasons. Ill explain why and also provide some additional information that I hope Mr T 
will find useful. 
The non-clean asset classes
Mr T isnt happy about the transfer of three funds in particular  two Invesco funds and one 
JP Morgan fund. He wanted clean assets to be transferred. 
Clean and unclean investments came about as a result of the regulators Retail 
Distribution Review (RDR) which aimed to improve the transparency of charges and 
services and removed commission payments to advisers and platforms from product 
providers  unbundling of charges. As a result, I can see that Mr T sold all of his unclean 
type investments in January 2015 and immediately reinvested into the clean type. 
However, Company A wouldnt accept three of the clean funds onto its platform. Citibank 
had to redeem the investments instead as Company A requested the funds be transferred in 
cash. Citibank has provided records of the redemptions on 8 June 2021 and the resulting 
cash of just under £20,000 being transferred out.
Citibank has also provided email confirmations from Invesco and JP Morgan that the three 
fund classes were clean and RDR compliant. As such, Mr T should have been able to 
transfer clean versions of the three holdings and it was Company As decision not to accept 
them onto its platform.  
Citibank has provided transfer-out advice notes for the redemption of the three holdings.  
Mr T asked for contract notes as he wanted to understand the commission that was charged 
as the statements of Mr Ts record these as sales. I asked Citibank for details about this. It explained it wouldnt charge clients on ISA 
redemptions and no contract notes would be issued. Any charging structure is a decision for 
the business to make and which I would expect to have been agreed with a customer at the 
outset of the relationship. So, if Mr T has any concerns about that the charging structure, he 
should raise them with the business. 
Mr T is also concerned that he has been overcharged fees for the three unclean funds 
compared to cost of clean funds since they were sold and repurchased in January 2015. 
However, I am satisfied that Citibank has provided evidence that the reinvested funds were 
clean funds so would have attracted the same charging structure as his other clean funds 
he held, so Ive seen nothing to suggest or have anything to make me conclude that he has 
been overcharged. 
Overall, Im satisfied the three funds were clean and there is no evidence to suggest that  
Mr T had been overcharged since January 2015 when he sold the unclean classes of the 
funds and reinvested into the clean class. 
Other transfer delays
The Neptune investment European Opportunities/Liontrust European Growth Fund was 
subject to a corporate action  a merger and subsequent reorganisation event  which 
settled on 25 June 2021. This caused a delay in the transfer but the resulting holding, 
Liontrust European Dynamic Growth Fund was subsequently transferred to Company A. 
The corporate action resulted in a small residual holding of Neptune/Liontrust European 
units  for which there is a transfer-out advice notice. In his complaint Mr T has said that 
Citibank has falsely claimed to have transferred out the fractional residual holding. He said it 
was not transferred to his account with Company A and Citibank has repeatedly failed to 
provide the information as to what happened to this investment. 
Clearly Mr T is concerned about the detail around these holdings and I sought additional 
clarification on those points which I pass onto Mr T. 
Citibank has provided a transaction history which shows that holding 0.0004 units of 
Neptune European Opportunities was transferred out. It has explained that the transfer out 
of 0.0004 units of Neptune on 23 December wasnt an actual transfer out to Company A. 
That couldnt happen as Neptune had undergone a merger event. The units were residuals 
left from the merger due to rounding off. The transfer out was actually the holding being 
written off as the units didnt exist anymore, but Citibanks systems couldnt reflect it as such 
and was processed as a transfer out. 
It has also provided a statement of account with shows that the holding of 8,682.247 units of 
the Liontrust European Opportunities Fund became extinct on 25 June 2021 and was 
replaced by 5,685.662 I units of the new fund.  
         
However, the Transaction History of 15 November 2022 showed an external transfer out of 
5,685.6551 and not 5,685.662 units  a difference of 0.0069 units. Citibank explained the 
background to this. The holding of 8,682.2360 of the Neptune investment became 
5,685.6551 units of Liontrust Fund as a result of the merger at a ratio of 0.6548607 
(8,682.2360 x 0.6548607 = 5,685.6551). 
These were transferred out on 4 August and Citibank received confirmation from Company A 
on 20 August, but Citibank faced a technology issue when reflecting that transfer out on its 
own systems at the time and it wasnt correctly recorded until 7 December. Citibank also explained the difference between the number of units showing  5,685.6551 
and 5,685.662 units of the Liontrust European Growth Fund I Fund. The latter is the correct 
amount but a computation rounding up logic difference between Citibank and its custodian 
showed on Citibanks systems as 5,685.6551 units. It was the holding as reflected by its 
custodian  5,685.662 units (previously showing as 8682.247 units prior to the 
merger/reorganisation)  which was actually transferred out and there was no loss or change 
to Mr Ts position. 
I accept that there are rounding off issues when there are mergers which involve ratios of 
this number and subsequent write offs. So, Im satisfied that what Citibank has told us 
doesnt seem unreasonable. I hope I have now been able to explain to Mr T what happened. 
The delay with the other five holdings  all with the same product provider  was caused by 
that provider. However, those five outstanding transfers have all been completed, and by the 
time Citibank responded to Mr Ts complaint. 
Custody and transfer fees
Because of the delay in the transfer of Mr Ts ISA, he incurred custody fees from June 2021 
onwards when the transfer should have been completed. The investigator recommended 
that the custody fees from June 2021 should be repaid to Mr T. I think this is the right 
outcome as Mr T was paying for a service he should no longer have been receiving so its 
the correct course of action for those fees to be repaid. Citibank has agreed to do this so, I 
make no further finding on this point.
Mr T has referred to being charged investment transfer fees of £30 on the two Invesco and 
one JP Morgan investments that werent transferred to Company A. Citibank has said they 
were redeemed at no charge. And Citibank originally only charged for the transfer of 
investments which didnt include the above as they were to be sold/redeemed. So, I cant 
see that Mr T was charged for this as Citibank said there was no charge on the redemption 
and the redemption proceeds would have been transferred as cash. 
Completion of the ISA transfer 
Mr T isnt satisfied that the transfer is complete. He has referred to a credit of 0.21p showing 
on his GIA whereas Mr T says he only held an ISA account in his own name. Citibank has 
said this came about as the result of a technical error. 
If that is the case and was caused by a technical error then I think it would be right for 
Citibank to write that amount off  from whichever account  so that Mr Ts ISA account 
shows as having a zero balance and he can close his account. Or if that 0.21p is due to     
Mr T, it should be transferred to his account with Company A so the account balance with 
Citibank is zero and he can close his account. 
Compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
The investigator recommended that Citibank pay Mr T £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience he has been caused. Mr T didnt accept this. He said he spent 250  300 
hours in trying to put the matter right  correcting Citibanks errors, trying to complete the 
transfer, recover overcharged fees and leave Citibank. This still hadnt been resolved. 
Its clear from the file and Mr Ts submissions that he has been extremely frustrated by the 
transfer process, the delays he has experienced and the lack of responses he has received 
from Citibank while he has been trying to resolve the problem. However, like the investigator I dont agree that Citibank was responsible for all of the delays 
in the transfer. And the majority  18 out of 24  of the holdings that were to be transferred 
was completed within a reasonable timeframe. The other six were delayed because of 
reasons explained by Citibank and which I dont find to be unreasonable. 
But its clear that Citibank didnt respond appropriately to other issues Mr T had, such as 
understanding the clean/unclean holdings, explanation for delays and request for contract 
notes as examples. No doubt he was extremely frustrated by this. Ive carefully considered 
Mr Ts points and I am aware he feels strongly about his complaint. But I have also borne in 
mind our long-standing approach to awards for distress caused. Overall, I think the £500 
recommended by the investigator, and agreed to by Citibank, is in line with one that I would 
award and is affair reflection of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr T. 
Taking account of all of the above, and in the individual circumstances of Mr Ts complaint, I 
partially uphold it. No doubt Mr T will be disappointed that I havent upheld it further than I 
have, but I hope I have been able to explain the reason why. 
Putting things right
To put the matter right, if it hasnt already done so, Citibank should do the following;
Refund all the custody fees from June 2021 onwards.
If 0.21p is showing on Mr Ts account and, it is not due to him, it should be written off 
so his account is at zero and he can close the account. Alternatively, if it is due to   
Mr T it should be transferred to Company A so his account with Citibank is at zero 
and it can be closed. 
Pay Mr T £500 for the distress and inconvenience he has been caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partially uphold Mr Ts complaint and Citibank UK Limited 
should put the matter right as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman