DRN-2976272
The complaint
Mrs B complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited failed to provide her with 
adequate information or levels of service when she started to access her retirement savings. 
What happened
Mrs B was a member of an occupational pension scheme (OPS). She held Additional 
Voluntary Contribution (AVC) savings in a pension plan administered by Prudential. She 
also held other pension savings, in addition to the OPS benefits, in a pension plan 
administered by another provider.
During the first half of 2020 Mrs B made the decision that she would retire from her 
employment the following October. So she started to discuss how she could utilise her 
retirement savings by discussing her options with the administrators of her pension products. 
I can see that Prudential sent some information to Mrs B about taking her pension savings 
on 2 July 2020. And I have listened to two phone calls between Mrs B on Prudential that 
took place on 17 July.
Mrs B says her preference was to take a pension commencement lump sum (PCLS  
otherwise known as tax-free cash) from her pension savings and leave the remainder in a 
flexible access drawdown arrangement. She understood, from the information Prudential 
had sent to her, that this was an option that was open to her.
So Mrs B was disappointed to learn, when she spoke to Prudential by telephone, that she 
could only take advantage of that approach by transferring her pension savings to an 
alternative pension product, offered by Prudential or another provider. And if she wished to 
transfer to a Prudential product, the business told her that she would need to take financial 
advice beforehand.
Mrs B was unhappy with that approach. She had already put plans in place with her other 
pension provider to use its flexible access drawdown product. She didnt think it appropriate 
to unwind those plans to allow the transfer of the pension benefits from Prudential into that 
arrangement. And she didnt think she had any need of financial advice before moving her 
pension savings to the other product offered by Prudential. She said her husband had 
enjoyed a long career in financial services, and she had discussed her plans informally with 
a friend who was a retired financial advisor.
When Prudential looked into Mrs Bs complaint, it accepted that some of the service it had 
offered had not been to its normal standards. And it agreed that the information it provided 
when first responding to her complaint had been unclear. So it paid Mrs B a total of £250 to 
reflect the inconvenience shed been caused. But Prudential didnt agree that it needed to 
allow Mrs B to transfer her pension savings to the alternative product without taking financial 
advice.
Mrs B wasnt happy with Prudentials responses so she brought her complaint to this 
Service. Her complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. Whilst he didnt think 
Prudentials written communications had been sufficiently clear, he thought that the 
information Mrs B was given by telephone clearly set out what she would need to do. And he 
thought the payments Prudential had made to Mrs B for the inconvenience shed been 
caused were fair and reasonable. So he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mrs B didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs B and by Prudential. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I think I should first reflect on Prudentials right to decide the terms on which it is willing to 
conduct its business. I am not aware of any regulatory reason why Mrs B would have 
needed to take independent financial advice before entering into a flexible access drawdown 
arrangement. And, as Mrs B is aware from her dealings with the other pension provider, 
some businesses do not impose that requirement. But I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Prudential to decide it would only conduct its business here on an advised basis. That 
means a financial advisor would need to sit between Mrs B and Prudential when she was 
using that product.
Prudential does have its own financial advisors that consumers can use. But generally those 
advisors would only accept new business over a certain monetary limit. I understand that 
Mrs Bs pension savings, after she had taken the PCLS, were below that amount, and so it 
wouldnt have been possible for her to make use of the advisor team from Prudential. Again 
I think that is a reasonable exercise of Prudentials commercial judgement, and not 
something that I should interfere with.
The information that Prudential sent to Mrs B in early July provided her with comprehensive 
details about the options that were available to her. But, as Mrs B reasonably points out, that 
information didnt make it clear that she would need to take independent financial advice 
before she could take advantage of some of the options. I can understand why that would be 
disappointing for her. The information does however ask Mrs B to get in touch by telephone 
so Prudential could talk about any risks associated with her choices and send her the forms 
she needs to make her decision.So I dont think it would be reasonable to conclude that the information Prudential sent to 
Mrs B at the start of July could be considered to be the end of her decision process. I think 
that the tone of Prudentials letter suggests that it had simply provided some initial 
information to give Mrs B a starting point about deciding how to proceed. It is clear that 
Prudential then expected Mrs B to get in touch by telephone to discuss her choices further, 
and be given information about how those choices could be implemented.
And that is what I think happened, around two weeks later, when Mrs B spoke to Prudential 
by telephone. It was at that time that Prudential clearly set out the need for Mrs B to take 
financial advice before transferring her pension savings to the flexible access drawdown 
product. So even if the information Prudential initially provided to Mrs B, when it sent her the 
original information, was deficient I think any shortcomings were corrected relatively soon 
afterwards.
I agree that it might have been helpful if Prudential had set out in just a little more detail that 
financial advice might be required before some options could be implemented. The brochure 
that Prudential enclosed with its initial letter does touch on financial advice, but only in 
saying that it was recommended  it doesnt say that advice was required. And, had that 
information been clearer, Mrs B might have made some different decisions at the start of her 
retirement planning.
But, as I said earlier, my aim, should I decide that something has gone wrong, would be to 
place Mrs B, as far as is possible, in the position she would have been if the problem hadnt 
occurred. So here, I dont think Prudential should be required to allow Mrs B to transfer to 
the flexible access drawdown product without having taken financial advice. Nor do I think 
that Prudential should be expected to provide that advice to Mrs B. That means that, even if 
the information had been clearer from the outset, Mrs B would still have needed to take 
independent financial advice before making use of the flexible access drawdown product.
I dont have any up to date information to show whether Mrs B has now taken her retirement 
benefits from Prudential. If she hasnt then I understand that it might still be possible for her 
to transfer them to another provider, as Prudential suggested at the time, and make use of a 
flexible access drawdown product without taking financial advice. But that is entirely a 
decision for Mrs B to take, and not something that I or Prudential should influence.
I think that the compensation Prudential has already paid to Mrs B fairly reflects the 
inconvenience she was caused. There was a short period of time, when Mrs B was initially 
planning her retirement, when the information shed received from Prudential didnt fully set 
out the steps she would need to take. But I think those deficiencies were corrected relatively 
quickly, and in time for Mrs B to amend her plans if needed.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman