DRN-3177548
The complaint
Mr C complains about the service hes received from Barclays Bank UK PLC. Hes unhappy 
they accused him of acting aggressively and closed his accounts. Mr C would like his 
account reinstated.
What happened
Mr C had two accounts with Barclays.
Mr C visited a branch on 13 January 2020 because he wanted some help with unlocking the 
PIN on the debit card for his account.
On entering the branch Mr C says he was told he needed to wear a face covering. The 
contact notes reflect that Mr C says that there were different machines and that he asked a 
staff member for help and thats when he was asked about the face covering.
Mr C says he told the branch staff he was exempt.
Mr C has said the staff asked him to wear a badge or lanyard that would confirm he was 
exempt from wearing a face covering. But Barclays have said they never asked Mr C to do 
that but merely queried why he didnt wear a face covering.
Mr C says the member of staff was rude, and he felt offended he had been told to wear a 
badge or lanyard to identify he was exempt.
Mr C complained to Barclays. Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. They said Mr C had 
been intimidating and aggressive towards their staff in branch. And because of this they 
were ending their banking relationship with him.
Following the incident Mr C received a letter on 23 January 2020 giving him 30 days notice 
of closure of his accounts. Barclays relied on section 11 of the terms and conditions and 
referred to Mr Cs behaviour as unreasonable.
Barclays closed Mr Cs account on 23 February 2021.
Mr C was unhappy with Barclays response, so he complained to our service.
One of the investigators looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said the bank had 
closed the account relying on the terms and conditions. He looked at the evidence provided 
and said he thought that as the relationship had broken down it was fair that Barclays gave 
Mr C notice to close the accounts. The investigator thought there had been no negative 
impact on Mr C because he had managed to open another account within the 30 days 
notice period hed been given. He didnt think Barclays needed to do anything else.
Barclays accepted the investigators opinion, but Mr C disagreed, he said Barclays had 
acted unlawfully and unfairly in closing his account because he didnt wear a face covering. 
He thought Barclays had misinterpreted the law.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
In my provisional decision I said:
Barclays have relied on the terms and conditions in order to close Mr Cs account. The terms 
relied on by the bank say:
We will end this agreement immediately if we have reasonable grounds for thinking you
have done any of the following things
This includes You behave in a threatening or abusive manner to our staff.
Ive looked at the evidence and thought about whether it was fair for Barclays to rely on this 
term.
The events of 13 January 2021:
Barclays have said there was CCTV evidence of Mr Cs visit to the branch. I have requested 
this evidence. Following many weeks of delay, it appears the evidence is not available. So 
unfortunately, I havent been able to see what happened in branch. I am aware the CCTV 
had no audio so I would have needed to draw conclusions about what happened from the 
visuals and body language.
Barclays has said that they considered the CCTV evidence as part of their investigations into 
Mr Cs complaint. The CCTV evidence shows Mr C in conversation  there are no obvious 
signs of aggression although there are references to him waving hands around and pointing 
to the manager. This isnt inconsistent with the statements provided by all parties.
Because it isnt possible for me to see what happened in branch, Ive carefully considered 
the account of events provided by the members of staff and Mr C. Not surprisingly these 
accounts differ but there are some aspects both parties agree on. Notably the branch 
manager tried to help Mr C unlock his account by resetting his PIN.
Mr C has said when he visited the branch on 13 January, he was asked to wear a face 
covering. Mr C has said he told staff he was exempt, and he says staff told him he should 
wear a badge or lanyard to denote his exemption. He says the first member of staff refused 
to help him and asked him to wear a badge to show he was exempt. The second member of 
staff was even ruder. Mr C describes them as having hate in their faces. Mr C asked to see 
the manager because he was not being assisted by the two staff members.
The law relating to face coverings at the time of the incident was that you must wear a face 
covering in various settings, including in banks  unless exempt for one of the reasons set 
out in law.
But there was no legal obligation on businesses to police that requirement or to check 
exemptions  and government guidance was that they should not do so. Government 
guidance was also that wearing an exemption badge was entirely optional. And businesses 
should not expect customers to wear one if they were exempt.
Mr C has mentioned he was discriminated against by staff in branch because he was 
Jewish. In particular he found it offensive he was asked to wear a badge or lanyard to 
indicate he was exempt from wearing a face covering. Mr C has said he found this offensive 
as a Jewish man. There is no way of me knowing for sure what was said that day by whom. 
As Ive said Barclays say they didnt ask Mr C to wear a badge or lanyard to denote he was 
exempt, but Mr C says he was told this by staff.Mr C has said he was deeply offended by comments he said were made to him. I have 
listened to a call he had with our service; he has told us why as a Jewish man he would find 
these comments offensive.
I have looked at the statements given by members of staff in branch. Three staff members 
and the branch manager who were in the branch that day have given written accounts of 
what happened which I have read. Ive summarised their comments below.
The branch manager said: - Mr C had used abusive and insulting language to his staff 
members and to himself. His statement says Mr Cs facial expression and tone of voice was 
unsettling and made the manager feel vulnerable. The manager says he asked Mr C not to 
shout at him.
I have read a statement from the first member of staff- she says that Mr C was angry and 
had been shouting and that this prompted her to ask him about his face covering as due to 
the shouting, spray was coming from his mouth. Her statement suggests the second staff 
member who I will refer to as J told Mr C, he was being aggressive and needed to calm 
down.
I have also read Js statement  She mentions Mr C being angry and she asked him to stop 
shouting as he was making other customers feel uncomfortable. J went to get the manager. 
J says Mr C was insulting and abusive to her.
I have also read a fourth statement from another member of staff who said the customer was 
shouting and angry.
Having considered Mr Cs submissions in light of the witness statements of staff, none of 
them mention asking to see Mr Cs exemption certificate or wearing a badge. Because none 
of the staff statements mention asking to see Mr Cs exemption certificate or wearing a 
badge, I dont think its likely Mr C was asked this.
The overall evidence suggests Mr C got angry with staff and that he was annoyed even 
before he was asked about wearing a mask. Mr C says that Barclays gave him poor 
customer service because of the way they treated him in branch, and he has said he found 
their requests for him to wear a badge or lanyard to be offensive.
The evidence Ive seen doesnt support that Mr C was given poor customer service whilst in 
branch. I also dont think that he was singled out and requested to wear an exemption 
badge. Im satisfied he wasnt asked to. Despite this I appreciate his view that this would be 
offensive to Mr C as a Jewish man.
But I am satisfied that Mr C was asked if he had a face covering. Given the government 
guidelines in place at the time, I think that this would have been asked of any customer who 
wasnt wearing a face covering and I dont think that was unreasonable in the circumstances.
As I think on balance Mr C wasnt asked to wear a badge or lanyard showing his exemption, 
I dont think Mr C was treated differently to any other customer because of his race or 
ethnicity or religious belief, so I havent found that Barclays behaviour was unfair or 
unreasonable in this respect.
Notice to close Mr Cs account:
I have then gone on to consider if Mr C was treated fairly by Barclays when they closed his 
account giving him 30 days notice.Barclays have relied on term 11 of the terms and conditions of the account to close Mr Cs 
accounts. This provides that the account can be closed in certain circumstances on less than 
60 days notice. In particular it says that the account can be closed at short notice if You 
behave in a threatening or abusive manner to our staff.
I understand that Mr C and the staff have different recollections and interpretations as to 
what was said in the branch that day. But I need to decide if Mr Cs behaviour can be 
considered as threatening or abusive and therefore whether Barclays were fair to rely on this 
term and close his accounts.
Mr C thinks Barclays closed his accounts because he didnt wear a face covering but Im 
persuaded that the overall weight of the evidence Ive seen reflects that Mr C was shouting 
and abusive to staff when he was in the branch. And as Ive explained above, I dont think 
that was in response to anything Barclays did wrong.
Mr C has said that he wasnt rude or abusive to staff, but I dont think thats right. On balance 
I think Mr C did behave in a way that was threatening or abusive to staff. It follows I think 
Barclays acted fairly when they applied their terms and conditions and closed Mr Cs 
accounts, and I wont be asking them to do anything else.
I realise this will be disappointing to Mr C, but I dont think Barclays have done anything 
wrong here.
Responses to my provisional decision
Barclays have not responded to my provisional decision. 
Mr C has provided the following comments:
Mr C rejects the entirety of my provisional findings
Mr C has said he requested to Barclays that a copy of the CCTV evidence be kept, 
and they have not complied with this.
Mr C is upset that I have ignored that he made such a request and it was ignored and 
that I have nevertheless made conclusions without the CCTV evidence.
Mr C reiterates that the CCTV evidence would show that no other customers were in 
branch, that no spitting or waving of hands was involved and they were 4 feet apart. 
He says the manager helped him use the machine with no shouting or issues.
Mr C says they have lied to cover up their behaviour and request to wear a lanyard.
It is not reasonable for Barclays to make any requests to anyone regarding masks
No altercation would have taken place without provocation and abuse
Mr C is highly offended by my comment that this probably never happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In view of Mr Cs comments, I have reconsidered the evidence before me.
As a service we cant interfere with the banks processes and that includes how long they 
keep CCTV evidence for. But I would like to reassure Mr C that we requested the CCTV evidence, and we waited for it to be provided. Mr C is saying the evidence would show a 
different version of events. But unfortunately, that evidence wasnt available.
Despite the lack of CCTV evidence, I considered that I had enough information to reach a 
fair determination of this complaint.
My job is to decide whether Barclays acted fairly when it closed Mr Cs account. I have relied 
on the evidence before me in particular the statements of three members of staff and a 
manager to decide that on balance Mr C did behave in a way that was threatening and 
abusive to staff and Barclays did nothing wrong when they decided to close Mr Cs account. 
Following my provisional decision Mr C hasnt provided me with anything to change my mind 
about the evidence put forward by the staff members. He has suggested they all covered up 
what really happened. I am sorry Mr C feels this way  I appreciate he is upset by my 
provisional findings, but I need to determine the complaint on the balance of probability with 
the evidence before me. Our service offers an alternative and informal way to resolve a 
dispute which means I havent been able to cross examine witnesses as a court would do. 
I have reviewed the evidence again and I see no suggestion that Mr C was asked to wear a 
lanyard showing his exemption.
As Ive said I have to make my findings on what the evidence shows on the balance of 
probability and Mr C hasnt provided me with any new evidence.
I appreciate that Mr C is upset by this whole situation but having looked at everything again I 
cant see any reason to change my conclusions from my provisional decision and so my 
provisional findings stand.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman