DRN-4201739
The complaint
Miss S has complained that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund transactions she says she didnt 
make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
In early 2022, Miss Ss Monzo mobile banking was used to receive a number of payments 
from her savings, then send two payments to a new payee, totalling about £10,000.
Miss S reported this to Monzo later that day. Shes explained her mother received a call 
which Miss S took for her. The caller said they were from the internet company and had 
noticed that the internet connection had been compromised. They knew Miss Ss mothers 
name, knew an engineer had visited the other day, used a technical trick to support what 
they were saying, and offered their employer ID numbers for verification. Miss S believed 
they were who they said they were. She explained she was ill at the time, shed been sorting 
out her fathers funeral, and it was a very long conversation.
Miss S explained they asked her to download an app to check her online accounts were 
safe, since shed been using her mothers internet connection. Miss S downloaded an 
established remote access technical support app. She logged into her Monzo app using her 
PIN, to check it was safe. The callers never asked for her details and even told her to never 
give out her details, and Miss S says she didnt give them her PIN. She said she didnt see 
them do anything wrong while she could see her phone screen. Miss S became suspicious 
at the end of the call, when the caller told her not to check her online banking for a couple of 
days while they made things secure.
Monzo recovered £4.39 from the receiving bank, but otherwise held Miss S liable for the 
payments in dispute. It couldnt see how the scammers learned Miss Ss PIN without her 
telling it to them, and it felt shed been grossly negligent.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. They explained 
that Monzo had to refund unauthorised payments. And they thought Miss S had grounds to 
trust the callers, so they didnt think shed been grossly negligent.
Monzo didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Miss S and Monzo a provisional decision on 5 June 2023, to explain why I thought 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Monzos technical evidence shows that the payments in dispute used Miss Ss mobile app, 
and her PIN. But this is not enough, on its own, for Monzo to hold Miss S liable  it also 
needs to be able to evidence that Miss S consented to the transactions, or that she failed to 
keep her account safe either intentionally or through acting with gross negligence. 
Otherwise, Monzo has to refund the transactions.
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that Miss S was the unfortunate victim of a complex scam. 
But Monzo has raised some queries about how the scammers could have made the 
payments without Miss S giving them some form of authority.
Monzo argued that the remote access app doesnt give control of the device. But it is 
mistaken. Remote control is one of the main features of that app. Monzo also argued that 
the scammers would not have been able to learn Miss Ss PIN without her telling it to them. 
But again, the remote access app allows users to see what is being entered on the 
keyboard. So when Miss S logged into her Monzo app with her PIN, the scammers would 
have been able to see which numbers she was entering via the remote access app.
So there is a clear point of compromise for Miss Ss device and PIN. Monzo did not require 
any two-factor authentication to make these payments, so it was very much possible for a 
scammer to make them using just the remote access app and the PIN theyd seen Miss S 
enter. Miss Ss testimony has been clear and consistent, fits with known scam methods, and 
is supported by the order and timing of the payments. And the way the payments were made 
 such as draining Miss Ss funds to a new payee at speed  fit with what Id expect from a 
fraudster. Lastly, Ive not seen anything which reasonably shows that Miss S authorised 
these payments, or which makes it seem implausible that they could have been made 
without her consent.
So based on what Ive seen so far, Im not persuaded that Miss S consented to the disputed 
transactions  meaning Monzo cannot hold her liable for them on the basis of authorisation.
Ive then thought carefully about whether Monzo can hold Miss S liable on the basis of gross 
negligence. Its reasonable to say that Miss S acted negligently here in allowing remote 
access of her phone based on a call. But gross negligence is a much higher standard than 
normal negligence. It involves a very serious disregard to an obvious risk.
Here, Miss S had reasons to believe that the scam call was genuine. The callers knew her 
mothers name, they seemed to know shed had an engineer round the other day whod 
tended to the internet connection, they used a technical trick to evidence they were telling 
the truth about the internet connection being insecure, they offered employee IDs to check 
who they were on any calls, they made it clear theyd never ask Miss S for any security 
details and told her not to give them any, and the app they asked her to download was an 
established app that really is used for remote technical support. Further, given Miss Ss 
personal situation  such as her illness and recent bereavement, given the length of time 
she was speaking to the scammers, and given the convincing and pressured nature of these 
scams, I can understand how they could have worn her down.
Monzo questioned why Miss S would think that the recent engineer visit was relevant, given 
that the engineer was from the television company rather than the internet company. But as 
Miss S explained, the television service was digital, so in order to set up the television 
service, the engineer had physically interacted with the internet connection. The callers said 
that this caused the connection to become insecure. I can see why that wouldve made 
sense to Miss S at the time.
Monzo also questioned why Miss S would need to check her own apps if it was her mothers 
internet that was compromised. But given that Miss Ss phone had been connected to her 
mothers internet, and shed been convinced that her mothers internet had had its security 
compromised, it makes sense that shed think her own phone was at risk, including its apps.Lastly, Monzo suggested that Miss S should have read the literature for the remote access 
app, which contained a warning. As our investigator said, it would not be reasonable to 
expect Miss S to read the literature for the app, while speaking on the phone, to someone 
she had grounds to trust. It looks like Monzo now accept this point was not relevant.
Ultimately, Miss S was trying to protect her account by doing what she did. I can see why 
shed allow someone remote access to her phone when she had grounds to believe they 
were really offering technical support, using a genuine technical support app. So while 
I agree that Miss S was negligent, I do not agree that her actions met the much higher bar of 
gross negligence.
Ive also considered whether Miss S intentionally failed to keep her account safe. But as 
above, I dont think Miss S gave her PIN to the scammers. I think they learned it using the 
remote access app, which Miss S wouldnt have known at the time. I cant see that Miss Ss 
actions would constitute an intentional failure to keep the account safe  ultimately, she 
actually took these actions to try to keep her account safe.
So while I can understand Monzos point of view, based on what Ive seen so far, Im not 
persuaded that they can hold Miss S liable on the basis of gross negligence or an intentional 
failure to keep her account safe.
Further, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that 
Monzo should have fairly and reasonably:
Monitored accounts and payments to counter risks such as fraud and scams;
Had systems in place to look out for particularly unusual transactions or other signs 
its customers were at risk of fraud;
In some circumstances, taken further steps or made further checks before a payment 
went out, or even blocked it, to help protect customers  irrespective of the type of 
payment involved.
Here, the disputed payments were very large  so large that Id expect them to have been of 
concern to Monzo. There were multiple payments involved, made rapidly, ultimately going to 
a new third-party payee who Miss S had had no dealings with before. These payments 
drained her account, and were very much out of character with her usual activity. Ive 
reviewed Miss Ss account usage in the months leading up to the scam, and I cant see any 
comparable activity. I think the payments involved stand out as being remarkable for a 
number of reasons, so I think they should have prompted Monzo to intervene. For example, 
Monzo should have not allowed the payments to go through without speaking to Miss S 
directly and questioning her about the payments and the possibility of a scam.Had Monzo intervened and spoken to Miss S, I think it would have become clear that she did 
not consent to these payments and did not want them to go out. From what I can see, she 
didnt know the scammer was making these payments, and Ive seen nothing to suggest she 
would not have been honest about things if questioned. The scammer hadnt told Miss S to 
lie if questioned  indeed, they hadnt told her theyd make any payments at all. And Miss S 
was open about what happened when she spoke to Monzo later that day. Im also conscious 
that this is a relatively prominent type of scam, so I think Monzo would have been able to 
quickly identify what was happening and prevent it.
So Im not currently persuaded that Monzo took sufficient steps to assure that fraud likely 
wasnt taking place, and that Miss S wasnt at risk of financial harm. And Monzo has an 
overarching obligation to not further financial crime. Had Monzo intervened, its most likely it 
wouldve become clear that Miss S was falling victim to a scam, and so the loss could have 
been prevented. So I find that Monzo bears responsibility for Miss Ss loss on this basis, as 
well as on the basis of the payments being unauthorised.
In terms of putting things right, Monzo of course will need to refund the unauthorised 
payments, less the £4.39 it has recovered. I also think Monzo should pay Miss S 8% simple 
interest on her loss. This is to compensate her for the time shes been without her money, 
and is the same rate the courts use for these sorts of situations. Lastly, while it was of 
course the scammer who caused Miss S the majority of her distress, I also think Monzo 
caused her some real stress and upset by not handling this matter appropriately. So I agree 
with our investigator that they should pay her £250 additional compensation for that. 
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it before 
19 June 2023.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the provisional decision, Miss S let us know that she was happy with what 
was said and had nothing further to add. Monzo reiterated that it didnt think Miss S had a 
plausible reason to download the technical support app, but accepted that this was not a 
new point. It didnt add anything further.
So neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. And so having reconsidered 
the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out 
in my provisional decision above.
Putting things right
I direct Monzo Bank Ltd to:
refund the disputed transactions, less the money already recovered;
pay simple interest to Miss S on those transactions, at the rate of 8% simple a year, 
payable from the date they were debited until the date theyre returned. This is to 
compensate Miss S for the time she didnt have her money; and-pay Miss S £250 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Monzo to take off tax from this simple interest. Monzo must give 
Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. Miss S may be able to 
claim the tax back from HMRC if she doesnt normally pay tax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ss complaint, and direct Monzo Bank Ltd to 
put things right in the way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman