DRN-4385366
The complaint
Mr C and Ms C complain that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) unfairly voided their policy 
and declined a claim.
All reference to IPA includes any agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr C took out a travel insurance policy underwritten by IPA through a price comparison 
website which covered him, his partner and their young child. They went on holiday abroad 
and made a claim for medical treatment that their child needed. 
IPA declined the claim and said Mr C had answered the question it asked about pre-existing 
medical conditions incorrectly. And it considered this to be a careless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to decline the claim, avoid the policy and return the 
premiums. 
Mr and Ms C brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator 
didnt think it should be upheld because the questions during the sales journey were clear 
and Mr C had failed to answer a question correctly. 
Mr C doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he has made the following comments:
IPA changed its reasons for declining the claim. 
The viral infection their child had wasnt linked to the bacterial infection their child 
was subsequently treated for. 
They do not agree that a viral infection is a medical condition - it was just a common 
cold.
The legislation hasnt been applied properly as their childs diagnosis doesnt fall 
under the definition of a pre-existing condition. And so their failure to disclose a viral 
infection isnt a misrepresentation. 
There was no reason for Mr C to click through to the important information as he 
didnt think his child had a pre-existing medical condition. 
Even if he had clicked through to the important information section, their child was 
not prescribed any medication by the GP and didnt receive any treatment other than 
an examination by the GP and so this isnt something which needed to be disclosed. 
Their child was taken to the doctor for something minor as a precaution and it isnt 
unusual for parents of young children to do this.
The sales journey was misleading and the information about pre-existing medical 
conditions was hidden and unclear. 
If the above isnt accepted, Mr C and Ms C dont think voiding the policy was 
reasonable. IPA should only have excluded anything relating to the undisclosed 
condition and should have covered the treatment needed.
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Mr C has provided detailed comments in response to our investigators opinion. I will only 
address what I consider to be key to my decision although I assure Mr and Ms C that I have 
carefully considered everything Mr C has said. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
IPA thinks Mr C failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
didnt disclose that Mr and Ms Cs child had been seen by the GP 3 times for an infection. 
Ive looked at the question and the online sales process and I dont think Mr C took care. He 
says the information was hidden in the small print and he didnt read the declaration about 
health properly as it was contained in the link to important information. As this was 
specifically called important information, I dont think its reasonable to say the information 
was unclear or hidden. And he had to tick a box to say he had read it before proceeding to 
buy the policy. 
Had Mr C read the box as asked to do during the sales journey, he would have seen that he 
needed to declare all conditions including any visits to the GP as this would come under 
treatment including investigations. It wasnt necessary for medication to be prescribed. And 
an infection or common cold are medical conditions. I think the term any medical condition 
is quite broad so it isnt misleading or unclear. The sale was online and not advised so it was 
up to Mr and Ms C to decide whether it was suitable for their needs based on the information 
provided, which I think was clear.
IPA has shown that had Mr C answered the question correctly, the policy wouldnt have 
been sold and he would have been directed to a different policy. 
This means Im satisfied that Mr Cs misrepresentation was a qualifying one. IPA has treated Mr Cs misrepresentation as careless and this offers the most favourable 
outcome for Mr and Ms C. Ive looked at the actions IPA can take in accordance with CIDRA.
IPA has voided the policy and returned the premiums. This is in line with the remedies 
detailed in CIDRA. I think this is a fair and reasonable outcome so I wont be asking IPA to 
do anything further.
Mr C says the policy shouldnt have been voided. But IPA has acted in line with CIDRA in 
relation to the remedies available. That is not unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman