DRN-2893198
The complaint
Mr P complains that AWP P&C SA declined a claim against his travel insurance policy. 
Reference to AWP includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr P had an annual travel insurance policy with AWP. He 
booked a trip with departure and return dates of 2 March 2020 and 30 March 2020. The 
airline cancelled Mr Ps return flight due to covid-19. Mr P booked a new return flight, 
departing on 15 April 2020 and arriving at a UK airport some distance from his home. 
Mr P made a claim against his policy for the additional flight costs and the taxi fare from 
the UK airport to his home. AWP declined the claim. It said that Mr Ps policy doesnt 
cover what happened here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considerable sympathy for Mr P. Due to no fault of his own, he had the inconvenience 
of an extended trip and additional expenses at an already distressing time. But, having 
considered everything, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these 
reasons:
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An insurer 
will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and conditions 
of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that their claim falls 
under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. 
Ive looked carefully at the terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy. What happened here 
doesnt come within the terms of the policy. Mr Ps trip was effectively extended, not 
cancelled, curtailed, abandoned or interrupted, as defined by the policy. An extended 
trip isnt something thats covered in the policy. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman