DRN-3262564
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that UK Insurance Limited has declined his claim.  
What happened
The background to this complaint was set out under my provisional findings. To summarise, 
Mr D intended to travel to France on a family holiday when lockdown measures and his 
daughters scheduled exams prevented this from happening. 
UK Insurance didnt cover his claim because it said Mr Ds costs were recoverable. I agreed 
with this to a point, however, in my provisional findings, I explained that this had changed 
from summer 2021 because his ticket extension had expired. This left Mr D unable to travel 
and so I provisionally decided that UK Insurance should cover his costs and pay him £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
A copy of my provisional decision is included below. I invited both parties to comment on my 
findings before reaching a final decision. Mr D accepted the provisional outcome. He made a 
note that his costs pertained to the Eurotunnel rather than Eurostar. UK Insurance said it 
agreed with refunding the irrecoverable costs but disputed the amount. It said that Mr Ds 
initial booking was £285. But it highlighted the additional £22 was an amendment fee which 
was incurred whilst travel advice was against all but essential travel. It said that because this 
cost was incurred during that period it should not be included.
And so, its now for me to make a final decision  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding this complaint for the reasons explained in my provisional decision. However, 
Id like to respond to the arguments made by UK Insurance. 
UK Insurance accepted part of my provisional decision, but raised concerns about whether 
the additional £22 increase should be covered given it was accrued during the time that FCO 
advice was against travel to France. In other words, this was a cost incurred when Mr D 
ought reasonably to have known that he was unable to travel to France. 
I understand the connection UK Insurance has made here, but Im not persuaded itd be fair 
to take that position. I say that because Mr D attempted to rebook his trip in advance, in 
October 2020, thinking the travel restrictions would be lifted by that time. Unfortunately, that 
wasnt the case, but I think it reasonable to include this cost as part of the remediation as Mr 
D wasnt to know when the travel restrictions would be relaxed. I think he took reasonable 
steps to cover himself in the circumstances and so Im less persuaded by UK Insurances 
position here.   
UK Insurance commented that itd like to know the ages of those intended to travel to ensure 
they meet the remaining policy terms. Im unclear about why this hasnt already happened 
prior to giving a decision on his claim, but I accept that Mr D must meet the remaining policy 
terms and so I think it fair that UK Insurance discuss this with him directly. 
Putting things right
UK Insurance must now consider Mr Ds claim in line with the remaining policy terms. I note 
there is an excess that must also be applied to the overall claim.   
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint. UK Insurance Limited must now consider the remainder of Mr 
Ds claim in line with its policy terms. It must also pay Mr D £100 compensation for the 
overall distress and inconvenience caused.   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.[Copy of provisional decision] 
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint. Im thinking of departing from our investigators 
findings and upholding this complaint. I say that because I think the outcome reached is unfair. Ill look at any 
more comments and evidence that I get by 29 December 2021. But unless the information changes my mind, my 
final decision is likely to be along the following lines. The complaint Mr D is unhappy that UK Insurance Limited 
has declined his claim. What happened Mr D planned to go on holiday to France on 22 August 2020  2 
September 2020. He booked his ticket for the Eurostar on 14 July 2020. But due to FCOs restrictions against all 
but essential travel, he was unable to go on holiday. Mr D contacted Eurostar and he was given an extension on 
his ticket for one year. This was from the date he originally booked the ticket in July. Mr D attempted to rebook 
his holiday once the restrictions were lifted and aimed to go away on the October half term in 2020. Unfortunately 
for Mr D, the FCO restrictions came back into place and he was again unable to go. Mr D attempted to book his 
trip a third time, during the summer holiday, 6 July 2021  25 July 2021 but was told this couldnt happen 
because it extended the 12 month window he was given. He was told that the trip would need to be completed by 
13 July to comply with the original booking date. Unhappy with this, Mr D claimed on his insurance policy with UK 
Insurance. The claim was declined because UK Insurance said the loss Mr D suffered was recoverable. It said 
that because Mr D was offered a 12 month extension to the booking, this wasnt covered by the policy. UK 
Insurance offered Mr D £20 compensation because of misinformation he was given when he called to discuss his 
claim. Mr D wasnt told about recoverable costs not being covered. Our investigator agreed with UK Insurance 
and didnt uphold this complaint. Mr D said he was unable to travel during the allotted time of the third attempted 
booking because his daughter was studying for her exams. He explained her exams were scheduled throughout 
July 2021 and that the earliest date they were able to take their planned two-week holiday was 6 July. And so he 
was unable to travel any earlier. Mr D asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. And so, its now for me 
to decide. What Ive provisionally decided  and why Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Im not persuaded this complaint has 
been considered fairly. UK Insurances decision to decline his claim doesnt feel fair. I say that because I think Mr 
Ds losses became irrecoverable from the third time hed attempted to book his holiday. And so, Im thinking of 
upholding his complaint. Ill consider any new arguments made but unless theyre persuasive enough to change 
my mind, my final decision will likely be along these lines. Ill explain why. Im satisfied that Mr D intended to 
travel during the school holidays and that hed originally booked his trip during the summer of 2020, when there 
were no restrictions in place for his intended destination. The FCO guidance came into play in July and so he 
couldnt travel. He attempted to go again in the autumn school holiday at the end of October, but the same thing 
happened. I agree up until this point, the losses were deemed recoverable and so I can understand UK 
Insurances position then. I note Mr D didnt attempt to make any bookings during the school holiday that 
followed, however, this wouldnt have been possible because there were travel restrictions in place during those 
times. I should perhaps also add that the French boarder was closed between October 2020  June 2021 as the 
country experienced numerous lockdowns throughout that time. The lockdown measures were also extended 
throughout Easter 2021 and so he wouldnt have been able to travel then either. And so, Im satisfied that the 
summer holidays of 2021 was the most appropriate time for him to try and use the extended ticket. However, the 
problem was his availability to travel.
Mr D said his daughters exams were the limitation here and so I think it reasonable that he waited until they were 
over prior to taking the family on holiday. However, this unfortunately meant that he wasnt able to use the 
voucher due to the intended dates of travel. Its at this point I consider Mr Ds losses to become irrecoverable and 
therefore should be covered by his policy. And so, I disagree with UK Insurances position here because although 
he was offered an extension to his original ticket for a period of 12 months, he was unable to reasonably take 
holiday because of the repeated restrictions of COVID-19 and then his daughters exams. I consider those to be 
strong enough reasons not to travel and so I think it fair that UK Insurance should cover the irrecoverable costs of 
his holiday. Mr D asked Eurostar whether itd be prepared to extend the voucher so that he could travel, given it 
was a matter of a two-week extension, but it wasnt prepared to do that. Mr D called UK Insurance to explain this 
and he was told that should he get evidence from the travel provider then itd be able to consider it, but UK 
Insurance said that was incorrect and paid £20 compensation for the mis-information. But I think the adviser he 
spoke to was on the right track as this felt like the fair thing to do in the particular circumstances of this complaint. 
I think Mr D behaved reasonably by attempting to rebook his holiday on several occasions, ultimately, however, 
this couldnt happen for the reasons Ive explained. And so, at the point his losses became irrecoverable, his 
insurance should have effectively kicked in. Because this didnt happen, Mr Ds claim was declined unfairly. Im 
satisfied he suffered distress and inconvenience as a result and UK Insurance should not only look to cover his 
claim, which is £307 for the ticket, but also pay him £100 compensation. I consider this to be a fair outcome for 
the reasons Ive explained. But I will still consider any new evidence prior to making my final decision. 
My provisional decision Im not persuaded that UK Insurance Limited has treated Mr D fairly. Im thinking of 
upholding this complaint for the reasons Ive explained. That means that should I find new evidence 
unpersuasive, UK Insurance Limited will need to pay Mr Ds claim, plus £100 compensation for the overall 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman