DRN-2737905
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, irresponsibly approved 
her credit card account application.  
What happened
Mrs J says she applied for a Virgin Money credit card account in 2017 and that application 
was approved with a credit limit of £10,000. She says she was surprised at the amount of 
the credit limit and later got into financial difficulties repaying Virgin Money the balance she 
owed. Mrs J says the lending was irresponsible and unaffordable and says her income was 
£9,360 but on Virgin Moneys records it is recorded as £93,600.
Virgin Money doesnt accept making a mistake and says the application was correctly 
assessed using a variety of factors. It says it reviewed the account in 2019 and decided not 
to renew the account card. And Mrs J must have entered the wrong income details.
Mrs J brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The 
investigator thought Mrs J had recorded the total household income as £37,500 which ought 
to have alerted Virgin Money to a problem as that was less than Mrs Js declared income. 
The investigator thought reasonable and proportionate checks cant have been carried out 
and when they were, Virgin Money cancelled the account card in 2019. The investigator 
recommended Virgin Money put Mrs J back in the position she would have been in if the 
account hadnt been approved and interest paid on any excess payments as well as adverse 
information removed from her credit file. She also recommended Virgin Money pay £175 
compensation.
Virgin Money doesnt accept that view and says its a common mistake for customers to 
incorrectly record total household income and says Mrs J made appropriate payments for 
some time after the application was approved.
Mrs Js accepts the investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint. But I accept 
Mrs J ought to have made sure the income details were correct and I also think she could 
have questioned the size of the credit limit with Virgin Money when the application was 
approved. But that doesnt change my overall view that the lending was inappropriate here 
for the reasons I will explain.
Lenders should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any application for credit 
or borrowing. Those checks will of course vary depending on the size of any borrowing or 
the type of borrowing. I can see that Virgin Money did carry out some checks on Mrs Js 
application but there can be no doubt that it didnt verify Mrs Js income or question why the 
stated household income was less than Mrs Js income. I think it ought to have carried out 
further checks and if it had, then the mistakes would have come to light. Im satisfied that 
Virgin Money didnt carry out reasonable and proportionate checks in these circumstances.
I can see in 2019 Virgin Money looked at Mrs Js credit card account again and decided that 
the account wasnt affordable. Im satisfied those checks were reasonable and proportionate 
and correctly concluded that Mrs Js income, which at that stage was correctly recorded, 
didnt justify not only such a high credit limit, but the account itself. I dont see how in those 
circumstances Virgin Money can justify how the 2017 checks were reasonable and 
proportionate when in 2019 it concluded the lending was unaffordable.
I agree with the investigator that Virgin Money will have to look carefully at Mrs Js account 
and put her back in the position she would have been in if the lending hadnt been approved 
in 2017. I find Mrs J had the benefit of the lending and so it would be unfair for that to be 
refunded but I think the interest and any charges will need to be calculated and taken off the 
balance she owes.
I accept Mrs J was caused some inconvenience and distress and think the recommended 
award of £175 fair and reasonable.
I dont think it matters that Mrs J was able to make the required repayments from 2017 as 
the key point here is that Virgin Money itself decided in 2019 the lending was unaffordable. I 
have made clear that I think it should have known that in 2017 if those appropriate checks 
were carried out.  
Putting things right
Virgin Money should put Mrs J back in the position she would have been in if the credit card 
account hadnt been approved. It should calculate and deduct interest and charges from the 
amount owed and if Mrs J has overpaid then it should refund that money and add 8% simple 
interest. I also intend to order Virgin Money to remove any adverse information from her 
credit file and order it to agree a repayment plan if necessary.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Virgin Money to pay Mrs J £175 compensation and remove any adverse information from 
her credit file. I also order that Mrs J be put back in the position she would have been in if 
the lending hadnt taken place and all interest and charges be deducted from the amount 
she owes and if that results in an overpayment, that should be refunded to Mrs J with 8% 
simple interest paid to her from date of payment to date of settlement. If Mrs J still owes any 
money, then a suitable interest free repayment plan must be agreed with her.
Mrs J should be given a certificate of taxation paid to Her Majestys Revenue and Customs 
in respect of the simple interest if paid to her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman