DRN-3664787
The complaint
Mr D on behalf of Mrs M as policyholder for business D has complained that delays in 
attending to an issue with a boiler led to damage unnecessarily being caused by a water 
leak. Mrs M bought a Homecare agreement with British Gas Insurance Ltd (BGIL). 
What happened
In November 2021 D bought a Homecare product with BGIL for a property D rents out to 
tenants.
An engineer carried out an annual boiler service on 19 November 2021 and no issues were 
identified. A couple of days later D reported to BGISL that the boiler pressure had dropped. 
D was advised to top up the boiler but the issue remained. 
An appointment was arranged for an engineer to attend the property on 26 November 2021. 
But BGIL cancelled this appointment. Notes from BGIL say an engineer attended on 30 
November 2021 but there was no answer. Further appointments were made but cancelled 
by BGIL until 23 December 2021. By this time the tenants had noticed a leak at the property. 
The engineer who attended fixed the leak. D complained to BGIL about its poor service in 
cancelling booked appointments. They believe if the engineer had attended a month before, 
the damage caused by the leak would have been prevented. They wanted BGIL to cover the 
costs of the repairs caused by the leak. 
BGIL upheld the complaint in part. It accepted it had cancelled a number of appointments to 
check the boiler. But it said the leak had been ongoing for a long time and wasnt related to 
its delay. 
For the inconvenience caused by its poor service, BGIL paid compensation of £100.
D accepted the compensation sum for BGISLs poor service. But D asked us to look at their 
complaint. D felt BGIL should cover the costs to repair the damage caused by the leak. They 
believe if BGIL had attended sooner, the leak would have been prevented. 
Our Investigator thought BGIL had acted reasonably. 
D didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that BGIL cancelled appointments to investigate a pressure issue with the 
boiler following the annual service over a period of a month. During this time a leak was 
discovered at the property. However, there is no evidence to suggest that the outcome 
would have been any different if an engineer had attended sooner to inspect the boiler issue. 
There isnt any evidence to show that the leak was related. So I cant safely conclude that 
BGIL should be responsible for the repair costs for the damage caused by the leak. 
I understand D will be disappointed with my decision. But this means Im not upholding the 
complaint. I think BGIL has done enough to resolve it by paying £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused by its poor service. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman