DRN-4083374
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as ALPHERA Financial Services, who Ill call 
Alphera.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Alphera, but I dont think this car has been of satisfactory quality and 
Im asking them to put things right for Mr M. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Alphera, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr M. The car here was about 
seven years old and had travelled about 28,000 miles when it was supplied to Mr M. So, I 
think a reasonable person would expect it to be showing some signs of wear and tear and to 
consider that the car wouldnt be fault free as perhaps theyd expect with a new car.
The relevant legislation says that we should consider whether the car has been durable 
when we think about whether it has been of satisfactory quality.
The gearbox on Mr Ms car failed after the car had completed a little over 31,000 miles. I 
dont think a reasonable person would consider a gearbox to have been durable if it failed so 
soon. I say that because online research, and advice from our own internal experts, 
suggests a gearbox should last the life of a car if maintained properly. Ive not seen evidence 
to suggest this car was poorly maintained by Mr M.
Ive considered the cause of the gearbox failure. A third party garage has explained that a 
roller bearing has collapsed, and swarf has therefore contaminated the gearbox. Online 
research, and our own internal expert, has confirmed that roller bearings are sealed units 
and can be expected to last about 100,000 miles. So, Im persuaded the bearing and 
therefore, the gearbox and the car, hasnt been durable.
Alphera have suggested our approach is inconsistent. Theyve referred us to a different case 
where it was my view that a gearbox failure, at a similar mileage, couldnt reasonably be 
considered to be the business responsibility. That case had different characteristics as the 
failure mode was electrical, and not mechanical. Those faults tend to happen at any stage of 
a components life and didnt indicate to me that the problem was one of durability. Its for 
this Service to consider cases on their individual merits and, having done so, I think this 
gearbox, with its specific failure mode, hasnt been durable.
   
Putting things right
The relevant legislation gives Alphera an opportunity to repair a fault in circumstances such 
as this. As Mr M has already had the car repaired, Alphera should refund the money he paid 
for that repair, and they should add interest to the refund as Mr M has been deprived of that 
money.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to refund the £4,400 Mr M spent on repairs to the gearbox and add 8% simple 
interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman