DRN-3446768
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) declined their claim against 
their travel insurance policy. Reference to IPA includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs A have a travel insurance policy underwritten by 
IPA.    
In December 2020, they booked a trip with an intended departure date of                       
14 November 2021. On 15 September 2021, the airline told Mr and Mrs A that their 
outbound flight had been cancelled. Mr and Mrs A cancelled their trip. They made a 
claim against their policy in relation to unrecovered accommodation costs. IPA declined 
Mr and Mrs As claim. It said that what happened here isnt covered by the policy. It also  
referred to exclusions in the policy in relation to disinclination to travel and the failure of 
any transport provider.  
Mr and Mrs A didnt accept IPAs response and pursued their complaint. They said that 
the exclusions IPA referred to were not in their policy document. They want IPA to pay 
their claim.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that IPA had 
treated Mr and Mrs A unfairly or unreasonably in declining their claim. The investigator 
said that what happened here wasnt one of the listed, insured events leading to 
cancellation covered by the policy and that she couldnt fairly ask IPA to accept the 
claim. She said that the exclusions referred to by IPA werent in Mr and Mrs As policy. 
The investigator said that IPAs reference to irrelevant exclusions was no doubt 
frustrating for Mr and Mrs A but didnt alter the outcome here. 
Mr and Mrs A didnt agree with the investigator. They said that what happened here is 
covered by the policy as the cancellation of their trip was  necessary and 
unavoidable. Mr and Mrs A asked that an ombudsman consider their complaint, so it 
was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant part of which says as 
follows: 
 
15. Section C  Cancellation or Curtailment Charges
[]
What is covered
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the Benefit Table per trip for any irrecoverable 
unused travel and accommodation costs and other pre-paid charges which you have paid or 
are contracted to pay together with any reasonable additional travel expenses incurred if;
a) cancellation of the trip is necessary and unavoidable; or
b) the trip is curtailed before completion; as a result of any of the following changes in 
circumstances, which is beyond your control, and of which you were unaware at the 
time you booked your trip:
1. unforeseen illness, Injury or death of you or a close relative;
2.your compulsory quarantine, jury service attendance or being called as a witness at 
a Court of Law;
3. the withdrawal of your leave as a member of the Armed Forces provided that such 
cancellation or curtailment could not reasonably have been expected at the time of 
receiving these benefits or booking your trip (whichever is the later).
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that IPA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
I have sympathy for Mr and Mrs As position. Through no fault of their own, they had to 
cancel their trip. Having said that, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs As complaint because I 
dont think that IPA treated them unfairly or unreasonably in declining their claim. Ill explain 
why:
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumers to show that their 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy 
the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
Mr and Mrs A say that their claim comes within the policy as the cancellation of their 
trip was necessary and unavoidable. But thats not the only factor to consider. 
The events set out in the policy at 1.-3. above apply to both cancellation and 
curtailment. The event that led Mr and Mrs A to cancel their trip  cancellation by the 
airline  isnt an insured event. So, I dont think that IPA was at fault in declining their 
claim. 
In general terms, an insurer can decide which risks it will cover. In all the 
circumstances of this case, I dont think there are grounds on which I can fairly direct 
IPA to cover a risk it didnt agree to accept at the outset. 
The exclusions referred to by IPA are not in Mr and Mrs As policy, so they are 
irrelevant here. I appreciate that IPAs erroneous reference to exclusions was 
frustrating for Mr and Mrs A, but it didnt alter the outcome of their claim. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman