DRN-3666213
The complaint
Mr S says that Loans 2 Go Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr Ss complaint is about a loan provided by Loans 2 Go. The loan was for £1850 over 18 
months and was advanced in September 2021.
Mr S complains that Loans 2 Go lent irresponsibly to him.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. He thought that Loans 2 Go hadnt made a fair lending 
decision based on the results of the checks carried out.
Loans 2 Go disagreed with the adjudicator so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending, including 
the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, are set out on this services 
website.
Loans 2 Go needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it shouldve carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to 
make sure that Mr S could afford to repay what was being lent in a sustainable manner.
There are no set checks that a business has to carry out. But the checks might include a 
number of things such as how much was being lent, the length of the agreement, the 
frequency and amount of the repayments, the total amount repayable and what Loans 2 Go 
knew about Mr S at the time he applied for the loan.
I can see that Loans 2 Go obtained information about Mr Ss income and expenditure and 
his existing credit commitments. Loans 2 Go used this information to calculate Mr Ss 
disposable income and made an assessment of whether the loan was affordable.
The adjudicator thought these checks were reasonable and proportionate but didnt think the 
lending decision was fair.
I agree that the checks were reasonable and proportionate. So Ive focussed on whether the 
decision to lend was fair, based on the outcome of the checks.
The checks showed that Mr Ss consumer credit commitments including the Loans 2 Go loan 
represented a high proportion of his income. The checks also showed that Mr S had an 
overdraft balance. I think this information should have alerted Loans 2 Go that there was a 
significant risk that Mr S wouldnt be able to meet the loan repayments without needing to 
borrow further. I also think Loans 2 Go ought to have realised that Mr S was unlikely to be 
able to sustainably repay the loan.
Based on the information Ive seen, I dont think Mr S could afford to repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner. I think the information obtained by Loans 2 Go shouldve alerted it to 
the fact that there was a risk that the loan wasnt affordable for Mr S. Because of this, I dont 
think the decision to lend was fair.
Putting things right
Where I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct the business to 
put the complainant back in the position they would have been had the mistake not 
happened, as far as is reasonably practicable.
In this case, that would mean putting Mr S in the position he would be in now if he hadnt 
been given the loan. But Mr S was given the loan and has used the money and made 
repayments.
So I think Loans 2 Go should refund all interest and charges that Mr S has paid on the loan. 
Mr Ss credit file should accurately reflect his credit history. However, I dont think its fair that 
his credit file should be adversely affected by Loans 2 Gos decision to lend irresponsibly. So 
I think its fair to ask Loans 2 Go to remove any negative information relating to the loan from 
Mr Ss credit file. 
My final decision
To settle this complaint, Loans 2 Go Limited must:
1.Add up the total amount of money Mr S received as a result of being given the loan. The 
repayments hes made should be deducted from this amount.
(a)if this results in Mr S having paid more than he received, any overpayments should be 
refunded together with 8% simple interest calculated from the date the overpayments were 
made to the date of settlement*
(b)if any capital balance remains outstanding, then Loans 2 Go should arrange an affordable 
payment plan with Mr S
2.Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ss credit file relating to the loan
*HMRC requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr S a certificate 
showing how much tax has ben taken off if he asks for one 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman