DRN-2159325
The complaint
Mr C complains about the sale of nine mobile phone insurance policies by The Carphone 
Warehouse Ltd.
What happened
Mr C has taken out nine policies through Carphone Warehouse as follows:
Policy 1 - taken out in July 2003 (policy ended in July 2004)
Policy 2  taken out in July 2004 (policy cancelled in July 2008)
Policy 3  taken out in July 2005 (policy cancelled in January 2006)
Policy 4  taken out in December 2005 (policy cancelled in December 2008)
Policy 5  taken out in December 2008 (policy cancelled in May 2010)
Policy 6  taken out in May 2010 (policy cancelled in October 2012)
Policy 7  taken out in September 2012 (policy cancelled in December 2014)
Policy 8  taken out in December 2014 (policy cancelled in September 2016
Policy 9  taken out in September 2016 (policy cancelled in October 2018)
Mr C says he didnt need the cover the policies offered as he had alternative cover in place 
through his packaged bank account. He also says he was led to believe having the policies 
was compulsory in order to get the phones he wanted. 
Carphone Warehouse didnt uphold his complaint. And it said the sale of seven of these 
policies wasnt something we could consider as theyd been referred to us out of time. 
Our investigator was satisfied the complaints had been made in time as Mr C had brought 
them within three years of becoming aware he had grounds for complaint (Carphone 
Warehouse accepted that). But, while he accepted there might have been failings in the way 
the policies were sold to Mr C, he didnt think hed lost out as a result.
Mr C didnt agree. He didnt think the bigger picture of mis-selling by Carphone Warehouse 
had been properly taken into account. And he queried why the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) had taken action against Carphone Warehouse if there werent problems with the way 
it was selling insurance. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Those selling insurance are required to provide customers with clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the policy theyre selling. 
And for an advised sale (which I understand all of these were) they need to take reasonable 
steps to ensure the insurance is suitable for their customer. This would include establishing if 
they had a need for it and whether they had cover elsewhere that could provide the same 
benefits.
As Mr C has referenced, an FCA investigation found there were failings in how Carphone 
Warehouse sold insurance between 2008 and 2015. Ive kept the findings of that report in 
mind when considering his complaint about sales that fell within that period.  
Were the policies suitable for Mr C?
Four of these sales fell within the period covered by the FCA report. One of the things the 
FCA found was that the sales consultants were not trained adequately to assess a 
customers needs to determine whether the insurance was suitable. And they were trained in 
objection handling, which the FCA pointed out undermined the advised sales process.
Ive not seen anything to show similar issues wouldnt have applied for sales prior to the 
period covered by the FCA report; I note the then regulator published a separate report in 
2006 which found problems with earlier sales. So I think its likely there were failings in how 
Carphone Warehouse assessed the suitability of these policies for Mr C.
But where thats the case I also need to consider whether (and how) hes been affected by 
those failings. If, for example, we thought there were flaws in a sales process but a 
consumer would still have bought a policy, they wont necessarily have lost out as a result of 
those failings. 
In this case I understand these polices provided cover for accidental damage, theft, loss and 
breakdown. And on each occasion he took out cover Mr C had purchased a new mobile 
handset. So I think he had a potential need for the cover they provided. Mr C has argued 
that need was addressed by cover provided through his packaged bank account. Im not 
clear if that was equivalent to what was provided by the Carphone Warehouse policies. 
However, even if it was the difficulty for Mr C is that he doesnt appear to have been aware 
he had that cover when he took these policies out. 
Ive listened to a call he had with Carphone Warehouse after he made his complaint. In that 
call Mr C agreed he was unaware until recently he had alternative cover and says he never 
paid much attention to what his bank offered. Mr C subsequently said he did know about the 
alternative cover. But he was clear about his position during the call and confirmed this in 
response to a further question from the adviser. And thats supported by other evidence; 
Carphone Warehouse has provided a signed questionnaire from the 2016 sale in which Mr C 
says he doesnt have alternative cover in place. 
So even if Carphone Warehouse had asked Mr C clearer questions about alternative cover I 
think it most likely hed have said (as he later did) that he didnt have any or wasnt sure 
about this. On that basis I dont think it would have been unreasonable of Carphone 
Warehouse to conclude he did have a need for this policy. And it doesnt look like Mr C was 
significantly affected by any of the things the policies didnt cover and their cost was 
relatively low. Mr C agreed to that cost and hasnt suggested it was unaffordable for him. So 
based on the information that would reasonably have been available to Carphone 
Warehouse I dont think it would have done anything wrong in recommending he take these 
policies out. 
Turning to the later sale that fell outside of the period covered by the FCA report, I can see 
the insurance certificate contains a ticked box against a statement which says Mr C was 
asked if he had alternative cover. And, as Ive already said, theres a signed questionnaire 
which records Mr C as saying he didnt have alternative cover. So I think it likely this issue 
was discussed. Even if it wasnt, for the same reasons Ive already explained, I dont think 
Carphone Warehouse would have done anything wrong in recommending Mr C take this 
policy out.Carphone Warehouse should also have provided clear, fair and not misleading information 
about the policies. Im not clear whether it did that. But given the policies were otherwise 
suitable for Mr C I dont think having more information about, for example, what they did and 
didnt cover would have affected his decision to take them out. 
Was Mr C aware he had a choice about taking out these polices?
In his complaint to us Mr C said he was led to believe the policies were a compulsory part of 
obtaining a phone. Carphone Warehouse has provided insurance certificates for the 2014 
and 2016 sales.  These say taking out the policy is not compulsory with the purchase of the 
phone. And Mr C has signed alongside that. Carphone Warehouse hasnt been able to 
provide certificates for the older sales because of the length of time that has passed. But I 
understand theyre likely to have followed a similar format
However, a signed insurance certificate doesnt in itself mean the adviser made the optional 
nature of a policy clear. And I appreciate the FCA report did reference cancellation calls in 
which customers said theyd been told the insurance was compulsory. 
But although Mr C included this issue in his complaint to us he hasnt gone into further detail 
about exactly what was said to make him think that. Im also mindful of the fact he didnt 
mention this in his call with Carphone Warehouse. During that call the adviser queried what 
his complaint was. Mr C outlined his concerns about alternative cover but didnt say he was 
told the policies were compulsory. 
He did recall being told hed be best off with phone insurance but I think thats different to 
being told he had to take insurance to get the phone he wanted. I dont think it would be 
unreasonable in itself of Carphone Warehouse to draw attention to the benefits these 
policies could provide. Looking at Mr Cs testimony overall, I dont think theres enough here 
for me to conclude Carphone Warehouse wrongly told him these policies were compulsory 
with his phone.  
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman