DRN-2921363
The complaint
Miss G and Mr G complain they were prevented from taking up a rights issue because 
problems with the on-line and phone systems of Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management 
Limited (HL) meant they were unable to meet the deadline. As a result, they were left 
having to sell the rights, incurring a loss. 
 
What happened
The details of the rights issue were provided to customers by HL on 28 October 2020. The 
deadline for taking up the offer was noon, 9 November 2020. 
On 9 November Mr G attempted to use HLs on-line service to take up the option for him and 
Miss G but he was unable to due to technical issues. He was also unable to get through to 
HLs phone service. Mr G eventually opted to trade the rights the following day, and then 
complained to HL about the issue. 
HL explained that a combination of significant world events around the date in question had 
led to a surge in demand for its service. This had a knock-on effect on the functionality of its 
on-line service and, in turn, led to longer wait times than normal for its phone service. HL 
said that it had worked quickly to ensure the systems were back up and running by the close 
of business on 9 November 2020 and had extended the deadline for taking up the rights 
issue to 5pm the following day. 
HL explained that its terms made provision for such circumstances, saying that the service 
wasnt guaranteed to be available at all times or without delay. So, in summary, while it 
understood Miss G and Mr Gs frustration, it felt that by allowing 12 days for the option to be 
taken up and then extending the deadline in light of the issues on 9 November 2020, it had 
acted reasonably. As such, it wasnt responsible for any perceived loss incurred by Miss G 
or Mr G.
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator reached broadly the same 
conclusions as HL. He said, in brief:
HLs terms made clear that it didnt guarantee the service would always be available 
and these terms had been accepted by Miss G and Mr G. 
The offer had been available for almost two weeks and it seemed that if Miss G and 
Mr G had acted earlier, they wouldnt have encountered any problems.
HL had extended the deadline as a result of the problems and while it wouldve been 
better if HL had pro-actively made customers aware of this, there was no obligation 
for it to do so in the circumstances. 
Miss G and Mr G didnt accept the investigators opinion, particularly in respect of HLs 
decision not to inform customers of the extended deadline. So, the matters been referred to 
me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how frustrating it will have been for Miss G and Mr G to have experienced 
problems with HLs service on the day that they wished to take up the rights offer. But I dont 
think HL acted unfairly or unreasonably in respect of the problems, so I dont feel its 
responsible for any loss.  
HLs terms explain that its service is not guaranteed, and that acceptance of the terms 
acknowledges that in some circumstances there may be difficulties. This is not unusual and 
is the sort of term I would expect to see in relation to service provision with this type of 
account. 
I can, however, look beyond the terms and conditions when considering how HL dealt with 
the rights issue, to see whether it acted fairly and reasonably. I note it gave customers 12 
days to accept the offer, which I think was a reasonable time frame. I do understand Miss G 
and Mr Gs point that there was no reason for them to think they needed to act sooner. But 
its nevertheless the case that the later it was left, the more likely that a problem of any sort, 
whether involving HL or another party  internet service provider, etc  might prevent the 
offer being taken up. 
And HL did extend the deadline to the following day in light of the problems. Again, I 
recognise that this information wasnt pro-actively provided to customers, and if it had been 
its likely Miss G and Mr G wouldve acted on it. But I dont think there was an obligation on 
HL to pro-actively communicate the extension, as opposed to simply explaining it to 
customers who questioned the situation prior to the extended deadline. And given the 
circumstances at the time of the problem I can understand why it didnt.
In summary, I accept this was clearly a very unfortunate set of circumstances for Miss G and 
Mr G. But I dont think that HL acted incorrectly and Im satisfied that it responded 
reasonably to the problems it experienced that day.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and Mr G 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman