DRN-3174002
The complaint
Mr G complained about the customer service he received from Great Lakes Insurance SE 
(Great Lakes) under his caravan insurance policy.
What happened
Whilst driving his car and caravan to a campsite, Mr G was alerted to a problem on his 
vehicle. He pulled over to the hard shoulder and he identified that the electrics on his 
caravan had failed. Mr G said he tried calling the emergency number hed been given, but he 
could only reach an automated message. Mr G was worried he would be stranded for a long 
time on the hard shoulder. As he thought it would be dangerous with the rain and limited 
lighting, he decided to continue his journey to the campsite.
Mr G said he called Great Lakes various times and he was told he didnt have a policy. He 
was told it was a system error. Mr G said he had various back and forth [communications] 
with [the] business about paying for [the] repairs. Mr G said Great Lakes eventually agreed 
to pay for the repairs, but he was unhappy with the overall experience. He said he found it 
difficult to find someone to repair his caravan, so he wants his £370 annual premium to be 
refunded as compensation.
Great Lakes said Mr G hadnt left his details for it to call him back about the claim. It also 
said Mr G had contacted its third-party contractor who looks after its emergency breakdown 
cover. It said Mr G didnt have emergency breakdown as part of his cover which is why the 
third-party said it had no policy details for Mr G.
Great Lakes said it was contacted by Mr Gs broker who said Mr G had been experiencing 
difficulties making a claim. Once Great Lakes was aware of the claim, it said we have 
provided you with a prompt service throughout your claim due to this I will be unable to 
honour your request for a refund of the premiums which you have paid.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She said once Great Lakes were made 
aware of the claim it had acted reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. Mr G disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have broken this complaint down to allow me to consider different aspects of the complaint 
separately.
Making Great Lakes aware of the claim initially
Mr G was unhappy that when he made his original call to Great Lakes from the hard 
shoulder, his call was diverted to an automated message. Great Lakes said at the time it 
was operating an automated message system as most of its staff were still homebased due 
to the Covid-19 pandemic. Great Lakes said its policy was to ask customers to leave their 
details and a member of its staff would call back the customer within two hours to take 
details of their claim.
Given the impact of the pandemic on businesses and individuals, I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Great Lakes to put this system in place. Great Lakes had decided this was 
the best system it could introduce to offer its customers a service in the circumstances. This 
was explained on the automated message. Great Lakes said a member of staff wouldve 
returned Mr Gs call within a couple of hours if hed left his details. Unfortunately, as Mr G 
didnt leave his details, Great Lakes wasnt able to call him back. I think its likely Great Lakes 
wouldve called Mr G back, so I dont think Great Lakes has done anything wrong here. I 
think a two-hour turnaround time for a call is reasonable.
Calls to third party emergency breakdown cover
Mr G made calls to the third-party contractor who was responsible for providing an 
emergency breakdown service on behalf of Great Lakes. Mr G was unhappy that the third-
party contractor didnt hold his policy details. Great Lakes said its contractor didnt hold these 
details, as Mr Gs policy didnt cover emergency breakdowns.
I have checked the policy schedule and I can see that there is no additional cover purchased 
for breakdown cover. I can understand how Mr G became frustrated that he couldnt speak 
to someone at Great Lakes, so he rang one of the contact numbers that was on the contact 
list hed been given at the time of purchasing his policy. I also noted there were other contact 
numbers on the list also such as Warranty renewals  cars. I think its clear this is a list of 
all the key contact numbers Great Lakes has for its whole customer base. However, as Mr G 
hadnt bought emergency breakdown cover, I dont think it was unreasonable when he called 
the number, the third-party contractor held no details for him. The number for the claim 
helpline was clearly shown on the list also. So, I dont think Great Lakes did anything wrong 
here.
Therefore, whilst I can understand Mr Gs frustration as he wanted to get his caravan 
repaired. I think Great Lakes acted reasonably once it knew about the claim. Mr G contacted 
his broker who sold him the policy and the broker contacted Great Lakes. Once Great Lakes 
had this knowledge it dealt with the claim in a reasonable timeframe, so I cant say it has 
done anything wrong.
Supporting Mr G to get his car repaired
Mr G said he had to contact 18 companies before finding someone who would repair his 
caravan. Mr G was unhappy that Great Lakes didnt help him more and send a repairer out 
themselves. He said it took ten days for the repair to be done as the contractor was busy.
Great Lakes said it contacted Mr G the same day the broker made it aware of Mr Gs 
circumstances. Great Lakes said one of our advisors contacted you on the same day and 
advised you on the process of making a claim with ourselves. They informed you that they 
would require you to provide an estimate from a repairer of your own choice or from one of 
our approved repairers and an email was sent to you with the required information needed. 
I have checked the policy and the guidance provided by Great Lakes was the in line with 
what it said in the policy, so I cant say it has acted unfairly in following this process as its 
the cover that Mr G bought with his policy. I appreciate it wouldve been inconvenient and frustrating for Mr G sorting out a contractor to carry out the repair whilst on holiday. But 
unfortunately, this inconvenience is normal for any claim, so I dont think its fair to hold 
Great Lakes to account for this as it wasnt its fault there was a problem with the caravan or 
that the local contractors were busy.
I have observed that Mr G contacted Great Lakes once hed had the repairs done on his 
caravan. Mr G went ahead with these repairs before getting the quote for the repairs 
approved by Great Lakes which is the claims process set out in the policy. This was outside 
of Great Lakes policy and it still proceeded to approve the claim after assessing the invoice. 
So, I think in these circumstances, Great Lakes has acted fairly. Therefore, I dont think 
Great Lakes has done anything wrong, so I wont be upholding this complaint for the reasons 
I have set out.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Great Lakes Insurance SE to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman