DRN-2678172
The complaint
Mr U is unhappy with Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) as it hasnt refunded him after 
he fell victim to an investment scam.
 
What happened
Mr U was contacted by someone he didnt know on social media and they began following 
each other. Mr U could see this person claimed to be involved in investments and trading. 
Her profile advertised opportunities to invest and had posts which appeared to show success 
stories from other people. Mr U didnt know at the time, but this was in fact a scammer.
Mr U followed the scammer for a few months and decided to ask about the investment 
opportunities. The level of returns promised for a £1,000 investment ranged between £3,000 
to £5,400. And those returns were to be generated within a day. Mr U was told there was a 
no loss guarantee and that he couldnt lose money on his investment.
Mr U asked for some details about how the investments worked and was told the scammer 
had access to a program which told her when to buy and sell foreign currency. Mr U 
questioned the legitimacy of the opportunity and was reassured when the scammer provided 
a copy of her drivers licence. The scammer also said she was a practicing Muslim and so 
had only honest intentions. She also assured Mr U that this was her career, and so she was 
committed to helping Mr U succeed with his investments, or else risk her job.
Much of the discussion between Mr M and the scammer took place on a messaging service, 
outside of the original social media platform.
Mr U decided to proceed and sent £1,000 to account details he was provided. The account 
details were not in the scammers name, or that of an investment company. This payment 
was made from an account Mr U holds at a different bank and as such isnt subject to this 
complaint. The details are included here in order to flesh out the circumstances of the scam.
Within a few hours the scammer contacted Mr U and told him his investment had returned 
over £13,000. Mr U was sent a screenshot which appeared to confirm these profits. He was 
told that because the investment had performed so well, and had exceeded £10,000, it 
would be necessary to pay a release fee of £2,100. Mr U was given a new set of account 
details, with a different payee name, and was told to send the money there. This fee doesnt 
appear to have been discussed prior to Mr U making the initial payment. Mr U goes on to 
question it and asks if the fee could be taken from his profits. But the scammer told him that 
wasnt possible. Mr U told the scammer hed likely have to borrow the money and also 
questioned who the new payee was. The scammer told Mr U that the details were for the 
finance department and that his profits would be released within an hour of his paying the 
fee.
Mr U went on to make the payment of £2,100 from his Halifax account. But after that he 
heard no more form the scammer and he was blocked by them on social media. Its then 
Mr U realised hed been scammed and so he contacted Halifax.
Halifax contacted the bank the money was sent to but no funds remained and so it wasnt 
possible to recover Mr Us loss. Halifax went on to consider whether it ought to refund Mr U. 
It is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams 
like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. Halifax says one or more of those 
exceptions applies in this case.
It believes that Mr U made the payment to the scammer without having a reasonable basis 
for believing it was for a legitimate purpose. It said hed not carried out sufficient checks on 
who he was paying, and hed not researched the investment company involved. It said it 
wouldnt refund Mr U on that basis.
Mr U disagreed and brought his complaint to our service. He felt the scammers social media 
presence and the assurances provided were enough to demonstrate he had no reason to 
believe he wasnt making legitimate investments. And so he brought the complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Although she initially upheld the 
complaint, on further consideration, she felt Halifax had acted fairly and reasonably in 
declining Mr U a refund. In summary she said:
the details of the investment ought to have made Mr U suspicious of what he was 
being told, as the proposal appeared too good to be true;
very high returns were being promised in a very short space of time;
there was a no loss guarantee that wasnt questioned or explained;
Mr U asked for no details of the broker who was supposedly involved;
there was no attempt by Mr U to verify the social media profile of who he was dealing 
with, including contacting mutual friends/followers;
she noted Mr U seemed to have some concerns about the payment but went ahead 
anyway; and
she felt Mr U ought to have had an understanding of scams like this and reasonable 
steps he might take to protect himself, given he worked for a bank.
The investigator did acknowledge the scammer had provided Mr U with some assurances. 
And she could see how the provision of the drivers licence would have gone some way to 
persuading Mr U that the person he was dealing with was genuine. But she didnt feel there 
was enough to say Mr U had acted with a reasonable basis for belief.
Mr U didnt accept those findings and so the case has been referred to me for a final 
decision. He thought it was particularly unfair that the investigator had taken his job  and 
assumed level of resulting knowledge  into account in not upholding his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I know that none of whats happened has been easy for Mr U. And I dont doubt he has 
suffered both financially and emotionally as a result of this scam. Fraud is a particularly 
cruel, damaging crime and Mr U has my sympathies. But I do find that the banks response 
to his complaint has been fair and reasonable, having considered all the circumstances. Ill 
explain why.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam, like Mr U. The circumstances where a firm may choose not to 
reimburse are limited and it is for the firm to establish that a customer failed to meet their 
requisite level of care, as set out in the Code.
One such circumstance might be when it can be demonstrated that the customer made the 
payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay;
the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
In considering these points account should be taken of all of the circumstances of the case, 
including the characteristics of the customer and the complexity of the scam.
Ive thought carefully about the scam Mr U fell victim to and Im in agreement with the 
investigator  and for broadly the same reasons  that Halifax has fairly declined a refund 
under the CRM Code. I dont find he had a reasonable basis for believing the payment was 
for a legitimate investment. There were warning signs that all was not as it seemed. This 
ought to have led Mr U to question the proposition and to carry out checks into its legitimacy. 
Had he done so I believe the scam would have been avoided. Ill explain why in more detail.
I find that the details of the investment, as explained to Mr U before he sent any money, 
were highly improbable and ought to have raised significant concerns. Ill reiterate here that 
Im not making findings on the first payment and whether that ought to have been refunded. 
But it does provide essential context for the complaint against Halifax.
Mr U was promised returns of up to five times his initial investment. And such returns were 
meant to be generated within hours, with no risk of loss. Im satisfied that this ought to have 
raised some significant questions on Mr Us part, as to how that would realistically be 
achievable. The offer of a no loss guarantee ought to have also sounded improbable. 
By the time Mr U made the payment that is the subject of this complaint, the expectations for 
his investment had been far exceeded. The scammer told him hed actually made in excess 
of £13,000. There wasnt any explanation as to how Mr Us investment had performed so 
well  far in excess of his expectations  and Mr U doesnt appear to have questioned it 
either. And so I find that, fairly and reasonably, Mr U ought to have gone from a position of 
already having a significant degree of doubt to now being highly suspicious of what he was 
being told.
Mr U has said he took some assurance from being sent a screenshot which seemed to 
confirm his £13,000 return on investment. And whilst I can see why that might have had 
some persuasive effect, it is the case that the information provided within it is very limited. 
Theres nothing that attributes the sum to Mr U or his initial investment of £1,000. From the 
evidence Ive seen there, there doesnt seem to be a date to confirm that the trades that are 
meant to have been successful are recent ones. 
  
I also note that Mr U recognised there had been no explanation of any release fee when he 
originally invested. And so it would seem strange that one became applicable with no prior warning. Indeed Mr U does question this. He also asks why the fee cant be taken from his 
profits but isnt given what Id consider to be a reasonable or persuasive explanation.
It seems to me that Mr U did actually have some doubts about the legitimacy of what he was 
engaged in. He questions the scammer a number of times, even asking Is this legit? in one 
of his messages. But he decides to proceed with the payments anyway, despite not being 
provided with any kind of detailed response or explanation. 
Mr U has said that he found the social media profile to be a persuasive endorsement of the 
scammer. But having considered the screenshots hes provided as evidence I cant say a 
reasonable basis for belief is established. There doesnt appear to have been any way  or 
attempt to  verify the profile. The same is true of the success stories from other investors. 
Those that Ive seen look to be shared by the scammer themselves. And theres been no 
way of verifying that payments have actually been made or to who. The photos of bank 
accounts provided only appear to show a current account balance and theres nothing to 
indicate the balances have been established as a result of successful investments from 
genuine customers of the profile holder. And Mr U doesnt seem to have attempted to 
contact anyone to directly verify their success.
I understand Mr U was sent a copy of a drivers licence which appeared to match the name 
on the scammers profile. Ive not seen a copy of it as Mr U says its no longer available. And 
so I cant give my thoughts on how convincing it was. But it seems it would have been limited 
to having a matching first name, given the name on the social media profile. And there was 
no way for Mr U to check what he was sent was a genuine copy of a valid licence. Whilst 
Mr U has said that the licence must have been genuine there was no way for him to confirm 
that or that the licence actually belonged to the person behind the social media profile or that 
it hadnt bene stolen or faked. 
Mr U was also given assurances by the scammer based around their religious beliefs and 
that they were assisting Mr U as it was their career. The first of these points could not be 
verified by Mr U and there was no way of telling if what was being said was ture. The second 
actually presented an opportunity for Mr U to try and validate what he was doing. The 
scammer claimed this was her job and also that she worked with a broker. But there was no 
checking of the firm the scammer claimed to work for, or the broker she claimed to work 
with.
With all of these things in mind I find the bank has acted fairly in applying an exception to 
reimbursement under the CRM Code. I dont find that Mr U had a reasonable basis for 
believing he was engaged in a legitimate investment. There ought to have been significant 
concerns raised by the improbable nature of the returns and the speed at which they were 
generated. And indeed I can see Mr U had doubts at times. And I dont believe he did 
enough to reasonably satisfy any such doubts that he did, or ought to have, had.
I know that Mr U is unhappy that the bank brought his employment into its considerations, 
suggesting that because he works in the financial services industry, he ought to have more 
awareness of scams like this. Mr U has said this is unfair because he only has a basic 
knowledge and because the bank doesnt actually know what his role is. It may sometimes 
be fair and reasonable to include these kinds of considerations in a case. Ive not done so 
here as I dont find they impact the outcome. And so what the bank has said here has had 
no bearing on my findings.
I have also thought about whether the bank ought to have done more to prevent the scam. I 
know that £2,100 is not an insignificant sum for Mr U to have transferred and lost. But I dont 
think it was remarkable enough for the bank to have stepped in to question it. I dont find it 
ought to have done more than it did in trying to prevent the scam. Mr U has explained to this service that he suffers from anxiety and that this can affect his 
decision making. And hes said how he may find himself in a position where he cant say no 
or doesnt want to let someone down. He believes this made him vulnerable to this type of 
scam.
I have taken this into account when reaching my findings. But I dont find it alters the 
outcome. The test set out by the CRM Code on vulnerability says, in summary, that 
customers may be due a refund  regardless of their actions  if they couldnt reasonably 
have been expected to protect themselves from the scam they fell victim to. I dont believe 
that positioned can be fairly reached in Mr Us case. 
I dont doubt that Mr U has anxiety or that it affects him and his decision making. But Ive not 
seen persuasive evidence that leads me to believe he couldnt reasonably have spotted the 
suspicious elements of the scam or questioned them. Theres nothing to suggest that Mr U 
couldnt have immediately recognised both the initial offering and the subsequent alleged 
returns as highly improbable. The evidence does show that, at times, Mr U did question the 
legitimacy of what he was doing. But he appears to have accepted limited answers and 
responses. He wasnt in a high-pressure situation and the scammer wasnt coercing him to 
make payments quickly. And so I dont believe there is enough to say that Mr U was unable 
to protect himself.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman