DRN-3919944
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires (and 
referred to here as BM) has unfairly declined her request for a term extension on her 
mortgage. Mrs B is also unhappy about payment errors made by BM, which impacted her 
credit file.
To settle the complaint, Mrs B wants BM to remove the adverse marker on her credit file, 
pay £1,500 compensation and extend her mortgage term by four years, allowing her to make 
overpayments to reduce the capital balance.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mrs B being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Mrs B has an interest-only mortgage with BM taken out in 2003. The mortgage term expired 
in June 2020, but has been informally extended by BM (either automatically through its 
system, or by agreement). The last extension ended on 6 May 2022 and the mortgage 
balance of about £80,000 remains outstanding.
Mrs B complained that BM hadnt treated her fairly because it declined her request for a four-
year term extension. Mrs B said shed be able to make overpayments during that period, and 
then, with the expectation of an increase in the property price, she intended to take out an 
equity release mortgage to repay the balance.
BM said that it was unable to agree a term extension because Mrs B has no repayment 
vehicle for the interest-only mortgage. BM also said that converting the mortgage to a 
repayment basis and extending the term by four years would be unaffordable, based on the 
income and expenditure information provided by Mrs B.
BM acknowledged it had made some errors collecting payments. BM offered compensation 
of £400 and also corrected any adverse data recorded on Mrs Bs credit file.
Dissatisfied with BMs response, Mrs B brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think BM needed to do 
anything more. She noted there was no repayment vehicle for an interest-only mortgage. 
The investigator also thought a term extension on a repayment basis was unaffordable. The 
investigator thought that BM had done enough to put right its mistakes about the collection of 
payments. The investigator clarified that the mortgage term had been extended to May 2022.
Mrs B didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint. Mrs B has reiterated the points shes previously made about why she 
considers BM to have treated her unfairly. Mrs B is also unhappy that, although she told BM 
that its offer of £400 wasnt accepted (because Mrs B says she believes she deserves 
more), BM paid it into her account anyway. Mrs B cant understand why BM wont offer her a 
different mortgage product, or at term extension. Mrs B says she is a good client of BMs and 
always has been.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Term extension: The starting point here is that the mortgage term expired in June 2020 
and, although informal extensions have been granted (the last one expiring on 6 May 2022), 
the balance on the account still hasnt been repaid. It is reasonable for BM to expect 
payment of the outstanding balance, in line with the terms and conditions of the contract 
Mrs B agreed to when she borrowed the money in 2003.
That said, BM has, I find, acted fairly in its consideration of Mrs Bs request for a four-year 
term extension. Im satisfied that a term extension of four years on a capital repayment basis 
wouldnt be affordable, on the figures Mrs B has provided. To repay the mortgage over a 
four-year term on BMs Standard Variable Rate (which, on 1 February 2023, will increase to 
7.84%) would cost (assuming a starting balance of £80,000) approximately £1,950 per 
month. This is unaffordable on Mrs Bs stated income of about £1,000 per month.
However, I understand Mrs B wants the mortgage to continue on its current interest-only 
basis, with her making ad hoc overpayments to reduce the balance, for another four years. 
At the end of four years, Mrs B believes she will be in a better position to take out an equity 
release mortgage. After looking at what Mrs B has said, Im not persuaded that it would be 
reasonable for BM to extend the mortgage on that basis. 
Without a repayment vehicle (such as investments, endowments or a pension lump sum), 
Mrs Bs only options to repay an interest-only mortgage are to sell the property or to arrange 
a new mortgage with another lender. Mrs B has told us that she receives food from a charity, 
and I understand that Mrs B is unable to work, so there is no opportunity for her to increase 
her income. Mrs B will reach State Pension Age very soon. Given this, I dont think extending 
the mortgage on an interest-only basis would be appropriate. 
There is no guarantee that Mrs B would be able, as she says, to make ad hoc payments 
over a sustained period of time. Neither is there any guarantee of any increase in the value 
of the property over the next four years to a level that Mrs B might find acceptable.
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied that BM has given fair consideration to Mrs Bs 
proposals. Having done so, BM was entitled to reject those proposals on the basis of 
affordability and due to the lack of a credible repayment strategy.
Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
Payment difficulties: BM has accepted that there were difficulties in collecting payments in 
July and September 2021. Im satisfied BM has amended Mrs Bs credit file, so there is no 
adverse data recorded against her arising from this. BM also paid Mrs B £400 
compensation.Im aware that Mrs B thinks this is less than she deserves, and she has asked for a payment 
of £1,500. However, Im satisfied that the payment of £400 is fair, reasonable and 
proportionate to the mistakes made by BM. Im therefore not ordering BM to do anything 
more.
Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
Further points: The mortgage term came to an end in May 2022. BM hasnt take any action 
to seek repayment whilst the complaint has been with us. But this decision marks the end of 
our involvement in this matter.
The mortgage balance is now overdue, and, if repayment proposals cant be agreed, BM will 
be entitled to pursue recovery action through the courts, as a last resort. I would not want 
Mrs B to underestimate the seriousness of this. Where a mortgage term has expired, the 
options available to the borrower to ask the court to suspend possession are very limited. 
I think it is also important to explain here that lenders will generally agree to put recovery 
action on hold whilst we look at a complaint, but they dont have to and we cant force them 
to. If the Financial Ombudsman Service had that power it would undermine our impartiality 
between the parties to a complaint. It would also create the potential risk of consumers using 
our service to bring complaints with the intention of obstructing businesses that were trying 
to take legitimate action through the courts to recover money owed to them. 
I do not wish to alarm Mrs B, but I would not want her to be under any misunderstanding that 
we would tell BM that it must suspend any recovery action in the event of a new complaint 
being raised.
I think it might help Mrs B to take advice from an independent financial adviser (she can find 
details of these on the Financial Conduct Authority website at https://www.fca.org.uk. 
Alternatively, Mrs B might find it helpful to speak to a debt advisory service such as Citizens 
Advice, StepChange or Shelter. We can provide contact details for those agencies, if Mrs B 
would like us to.
I hope Mrs B is able to make arrangements to repay the mortgage within the near future. I 
appreciate that Mrs B will be disappointed that Ive not upheld her complaint, but as there 
are no options available with BM for a term extension or a new mortgage, Mrs B will need to 
look elsewhere for a repayment solution. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Jan O'LearyOmbudsman