DRN-2966675
The complaint
Ms B complains about a claim she made on her home insurance policy for fire damage. 
Shes unhappy that the claim for damage to her driveway hasnt been covered because it 
was deemed to be purely cosmetic damage. She thinks the exclusion is unfair and 
unreasonable. 
The policy was underwritten by AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA). It is responsible for the claim 
decision Ms B is unhappy about.
Ms B has been represented in her case, but throughout my decision Ill only refer to her.
What happened
In April 2020, a car was set on fire outside Ms Bs house, while it was parked on her 
driveway. Amongst other things, the fire damaged the houses windows and the driveway.  
According to a report some months later from the loss adjuster, oil and fuel leaked out from 
the car and damaged the driveway. Around a third of the drive was stained where the car 
was parked.
Ms B reported the damage on 16 April 2020. And made a claim under her home insurance 
policy, underwritten by AXA. In order to validate the claim her insurers instructed contractors 
to report on and estimate the damage. Ms Bs windows were boarded up for security under 
her home emergency cover. But thered been no progress on her claim by 11 May 2020, so 
Ms B complained.
AXA sent its final response on 15 July 2020. It upheld the complaint and apologised for the 
poor service and communications Ms B had received. AXA said that due to the Covid-19 
pandemic there was a delay in getting the contractors out to assess the damage. But after 
Ms B chased her claim it had become apparent that the claim instructions hadnt been 
received. So it gave the contractors the claim instructions again. It said that Ms Bs claim had 
been transferred to a different member of staff to manage and her claim had progressed to 
the point that the repairs would be completed in the near future.
While other work on her house was completed, Ms Bs driveway had still not been repaired 
or replaced. She said that the contractors had agreed that the driveway would need to be 
replaced. She said that theyd told her to choose replacement driveway bricks. But, after 
months of chasing, she said she was then told the contractors would only replace the inside 
of the driveway, not the border, which she said was damaged as well. Ms B said that her 
insurer didnt decide to send a loss adjuster to review the damage until seven months after 
her original claim. 
In December 2020, a loss adjuster inspected the damage at the property. The loss adjuster 
had been appointed due to a concern that Ms B was underinsured for her outbuildings, 
which included her driveway. The sum insured under her outbuildings cover was £7,500. But 
the estimated replacement cost for the driveway was more than this.
The loss adjusters report, dated 9 December 2020, stated: The driveway is still used by the 
Insured and its functionality has not been impaired at all having suffered by the oil spill. The 
damage we believe must be considered as cosmetic only as the drive is still fully serving its 
purpose. The loss adjusters report also estimated that Ms Bs outbuildings cover was: only 
52% adequate. 
When AXA reviewed the report, it decided that it couldnt offer any contribution to the 
driveway as it felt the damage was cosmetic. Ms Bs policy has an exclusion as follows: 
Your policy will not cover loss, damage, liability, costs or expenses for claims in the 
following circumstances:
.
Pure Cosmetic Damage
So in January 2021 Ms B raised a further complaint about this. She felt that her initial 
complaint hadnt been addressed or resolved. She said her claim had suffered from long 
delays and poor service. And she said that her claim for the replacement driveway she felt 
she needed had initially been approved, before being withdrawn. She also didnt agree that 
the driveway damage was purely cosmetic. She wanted it to be restored to how itd been 
before the fire.
A final response letter was issued on 4 March 2021. AXA agreed it shouldve appointed a 
loss adjuster from the outset of the claim. But it maintained its decision regarding the 
driveway. It acknowledged that the service provided couldve been better. And awarded 
£400 compensation for this and the delays Ms B had experienced. Ms B was unhappy with 
this response. So referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She felt that as the driveway 
was still fully functional, AXA had acted fairly when it had declined that part of the claim 
under the Pure Cosmetic Damage exclusion. When looking at the overall service Ms B had 
received, she felt that AXA had acknowledged that it hadnt been ideal and had awarded 
£400, which she considered reasonable under the circumstances.
Ms B didnt agree. While she confirmed she was happy with AXAs £400 offer for its poor 
service, she said she didnt believe that the Pure Cosmetic Damage exclusion should apply 
in this case. She felt that the term itself was unfair. She said that the driveway had been laid 
for both its function and to look nice.
Ms B also said that some of the damaged driveway bricks were broken. And she said that 
the top layer had completely chipped off due to the fire damage. So she thinks this should be 
covered. She also believes that the driveway should be considered to be a decorative item 
and so should be covered in full.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill firstly explain the role of AXA in this case. Whilst AXA is an insurer in its own right and 
offers policies direct to consumers, that is not its role in respect to Ms Bs policy. AXA in this 
situation is the underwriter of the policy. That means that another financial business (often 
referred to as a retail insurer) has decided it wants to offer an insurance policy and has decided what it wants that policy to do and cover. It will then find an insurer to act as the 
underwriter, which means it takes on the risk of any policies that are sold and deals with any 
claims.
When a claim comes in, the underwriter will apply the policy terms and conditions that the 
insurer has asked it to attach to the policy. It doesnt usually set those terms and conditions. 
So as long as the underwriter fairly applies the terms and conditions to all the holders of the 
policies it underwrites, we wouldnt find it had done anything wrong.
In this case, that appears to be what AXA did. It applied the policy exclusion of Pure 
Cosmetic Damage to the driveway. I can see that Ms Bs policy terms exclude Pure 
Cosmetic Damage. They also define Cosmetic Damage as Damage that solely affects the 
appearance but not the functionality of an insured item (e.g. chipping, denting or scratching) 
except where the item is used purely for decorative purposes (e.g. carpets) where cosmetic 
damage is limited to £750 per item, per claim.
I can see that theres been a lack of clarity on how these terms have been applied in this 
case, as the loss adjusters initial report said: we would ask insurers to confirm their 
agreement that settlement for this aspect of the claim should be paid up to the £750 limit.  
And I think this has led to some confusion. Ms Bs policy provides no cover for a functional 
driveway, despite it having cosmetic damage. The policy only offers cover of up to £750 for 
cosmetic damage for purely decorative items. So I dont think AXA did anything wrong in 
declining to cover the driveway damage in the circumstances.
I do acknowledge that it mustve been frustrating for Ms B to have been told the driveway 
would be covered, only to later find out it wasnt. But I have no evidence to blame AXA for 
that. From what I can tell, it took reasonable steps to assess the damage. And it has fairly 
relied on a clear policy exclusion to decline that part of the claim.
I also acknowledge that Ms B has said she disagrees that the damage to the driveway is 
cosmetic. She said: The driveway has substantial fire damage, from a motor vehicle with 
fuel that accelerated and intensified the fire, which I'm sure you must agree is far from 
cosmetic. But I can only look at whether this part of the claim was declined correctly. And 
from what Ive seen, it was. The driveway can still function as a driveway. So I can't fairly 
conclude that AXA has done anything wrong. 
I note that Ms B also said she feels the policy terms themselves are unfair. I need to be 
absolutely clear that were not the industry regulator; the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
is. That means its not my role to tell an insurer what its terms should be. Thats for the 
insurer to decide for itself (and for the FCA to regulate as appropriate). But, I can say that I 
dont consider the term in question to be particularly onerous. So, I cant agree that its 
unfair. 
Ms B told this service that some driveway stones have broken and eroded with the top layer 
cracking off. So this service asked AXA to consider this point. But it said that the 
photographs itd seen didnt show: any broken stones or erosion, other than general wear 
and tear and discolouring. However, it also said: If the policyholder would like to submit 
evidence of the cracked cobbles and layer coming off the top, feel free to request a report 
and photos. So if Ms B is able to produce a report confirming the damage shes described, 
she should send that and any photographic evidence to AXA for its consideration. 
Ms B wasnt happy with the service she received from AXA when it handled her claim. But 
shes told this service that shes happy with the amount of compensation AXA has paid in 
respect of the poor service she received. So I wont consider this further.Im very sorry that Ms B has had to go through the event leading to the driveway damage. I 
understand why shes disappointed that her relatively new driveway has been damaged 
through no fault of her own. But Ive not found that AXA did anything wrong when it applied 
the Pure Cosmetic Damage exclusion to the driveway part of her claim. So I wont be 
asking it to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman