DRN-2627926
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
connection with a hire-purchase agreement. AXA France IARD (AXA) didn't actually sell 
the PPI, but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to 
keep things simple.
What happened
Mr T took out a hire-purchase agreement in a shop in 2000. At the same time, he took out a 
PPI policy to protect his monthly repayments against accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Mr T paid a monthly premium for the policy, which was added to his monthly repayment 
under the agreement.
The hire-purchase agreement was due to run for four years. But Mr T had the option to settle 
the agreement after a year without paying any interest.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr T disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr T 
and to AXA on 21 January 2021. I summarise my findings:
The PPI cost £7.07 per month and was added to Mr Ts monthly repayments of £50.49 
under the agreement. If Mr T had made a successful claim on the policy for accident, 
sickness or unemployment, it would have paid his monthly repayments under the 
agreement for up to 12 months. But Mr T would have had to carry on paying the monthly 
PPI premiums during any claim.
Mr Ts told us he believes hed have been entitled to six months full pay from his 
employer at the time if hed been off sick, and that would have been followed by a period 
at half pay, although hes not sure how long that would have lasted for. Mr Ts told us 
hed also have been entitled to a redundancy package, based on his length of service 
with his employer. As hed been working for the same employer for many years, I thought 
it was likely hed have received a substantial pay-out if hed been made redundant.
In addition to his generous employee benefits, Mr Ts told us he had easily accessible 
savings worth at least six months of his salary when he took out the hire-purchase 
agreement. I explained that Mr Ts been consistent in what hes told AXA and us about 
his employee benefits and savings, and I had no reason to doubt what he says. Given 
that its more than 20 years since he took out the agreement, I thought it would be 
understandable if he no longer had evidence of his savings at the time.
Taking everything into account, it seemed to me that between payments hed have 
received from his employer and his savings, Mr T would have been able to manage well 
financially for at least a year if hed been off sick, and probably if hed lost his job too. 
Given this, I wasnt convinced, on balance, that Mr T would have thought the policy worth 
taking out if it had been made clear to him that the policy would only pay out for up to 
12 months per claim, and that even if hed made a successful claim, he have needed to 
carry on paying the monthly PPI premiums.
So based on wat Id seen so far, I was planning to uphold Mr Ts complaint, and to 
require AXA to put things right by doing as Ive set out below.
Further submissions
Neither Mr T nor AXA has provided any further comments or evidence for me to consider. 
But after I sent out my provisional decision, AXA told us that it is now willing to make an offer 
to settle the complaint in line with our general approach. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts case. Having done so, I cant see any reason 
to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mr T in the position he would be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. So AXA 
needs to:
Pay Mr T the amount he paid each month for the PPI; and
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what he got for the 
claim from the amount it owes him.
HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mr T 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA France IARD to put things right by 
doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman