DRN-3067872
The complaint
Mr M complains that Godiva Mortgages Limited transferred buy to let mortgage funds to the 
conveyancing solicitor before he needed them. This meant he paid additional interest as well 
as bank transfer fees. He asks for compensation for the additional interest and his time and 
inconvenience in sorting out this matter.
What happened
Mr M was re-mortgaging with Godiva. A broker made the application on his behalf. The buy 
to let mortgage product Mr M applied for included standard legal costs. Godiva appointed the 
conveyancing solicitor. Godiva transferred funds to the solicitor the day before completion, 
meaning Mr M paid an extra days interest. He says this was unfair and unnecessary, 
especially as he paid two sets of bank transfer fees.
Godiva said it gave Mr M clear information about its fees. It said it was standard practice for 
solicitors to ask for funds in advance, to ensure theyre available for completion. It said Mr M 
would have to raise any concerns about this with the solicitors.
Our investigator said Mr M was made aware that funds would be sent to the conveyancing 
solicitor the day before, to ensure theyre available for completion, and that Godiva would 
charge interest from the date the funds are released. And hed been given information about 
the applicable fees, including money transfer fees.
Mr M didnt agree. He said the solicitors were acting on instructions from Godiva. He didnt 
have the benefit of the funds while they were with the solicitors. Mr M couldnt understand 
why the funds couldnt be transferred on one day. And he says he wasnt told what fees 
would be applied by the solicitors until the conveyancing process started, when the process 
was already some way along.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Mr M was given clear information about when the funds would be transferred and the 
fees that would be applied. Godiva issued a mortgage illustration on 16 January 2021 which 
said:
there would be a funds transfer fee of £8, payable at completion.
Godivas remortgage transfer service applied. The illustration said Godiva will only meet 
the standard legal costs involved in moving your mortgage to [Godiva](subject to 
exceptions). Any additional chargeable services will be your responsibility. Full details 
are available on request.
I dont know if Mr M or his broker asked for more information about the charges and 
services. Godiva provided its factsheet about this to us, which says Godiva will charge 
interest from the day funds are released to the conveyancer, which may be before the actual 
completion date. 
The solicitors wrote to Mr M on 25 January 2021. This letter said:
The solicitor would charge an electronic money transfer fee of £16.67 per transfer to 
repay the existing mortgage. It said it would charge the same fee to transfer any surplus 
funds to Mr M, if this was done electronically.
The solicitor would ask for funds prior to the completion date to avoid any delays, and 
Godiva would apply interest from the date the funds are released. 
Godiva issued a mortgage offer on 10 February 2021. This gave the same information as the 
mortgage illustration about the funds transfer fees and legal costs.
Based on the above, I think Mr M was given sufficient information about the funds being 
transferred in advance of completion and the related interest and fees in good time. 
I must also take into account here that this is a buy to let mortgage. Letting property is a 
business. I think Godiva could reasonably expect Mr M to assess the overall cost of the 
mortgage and make a decision whether to go ahead. I think Godiva gave Mr M clear 
information to allow Mr M to do this. Mr M was made aware of the funds transfer fees, that 
the solicitor would ask for the funds in advance of completion, and that Godiva would charge 
interest from when it released funds to the solicitor. This was the basis on which Mr M 
accepted the mortgage offer and the services of the solicitor instructed by Godiva under its 
remortgage transfer service. 
I dont think Godiva misled Mr M or treated him unfairly. I dont think its fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances to require it to refund any fees or interest or pay compensation to Mr M.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman