DRN-3235087
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that J D Williams & Company Limited trading as Simply Be (J D 
Williams) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Mrs H opened a shopping account with J D Williams in May 2018. Her account limit was 
initially very low - £125. Over the course of the next five months Mrs Hs account limit was 
increased five times until, in October 2018, it was £1,000.
Mrs H says that J D Williams should never have allowed to her to open an account. She 
says she had missed payments on various loans and credit before she opened the account 
and that there were defaults on her credit file. She says that she was only making the 
minimum payments on the account for a long while and was using a very high level of her 
credit limit. She says this should have shown that she couldnt repay her balance in a 
reasonable length of time. 
 
J D Williams says it didnt lend irresponsibly to Mrs H and that it did all the necessary checks 
before it lent to Mrs H  and when it increased her credit limit. 
Our adjudicator thought that Mrs Hs complaint should be partially upheld. They thought that 
the credit given to Mrs H was acceptable, but that by June 2019 Mrs Hs account activity 
showed evidence she was struggling to maintain her account and the repayments were 
proving unsustainable. 
Our adjudicator said that JD Williams should not have allowed Mrs H to make further 
purchases from that time and that her account and interest charges should have been 
frozen. 
J D Williams explained in response to the view that Mrs H hadnt made any more purchases 
since June 2019. 
Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators view. She didnt explain why, but she has requested a 
final decision and so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mrs Hs complaint.
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs H
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mrs Hs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early 
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate.
Certain factors might point to the fact that J D Williams should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs H. These factors include:
Mrs Hs income, reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan repayments 
to a given loan amount from a lower level of income.
The amount due to be repaid, reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a higher 
repayment from a particular level of income.
The frequency of borrowing and the length of time Mrs H had been indebted, 
reflecting the risk that prolonged indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming unsustainable.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable.
 
When Mrs H opened her account J D Williams conducted a credit check. J D Williams told 
us there were no signs of financial difficulties based on the checks it did. Having reviewed 
the checks, I dont think there is anything to suggest that it would have been unreasonable 
for J D Williams to have approved the account. J D Williams didnt ask about Mrs Hs 
income, and this may have helped it begin to build a picture of Mrs Hs financial 
circumstances. But even if it had, at this stage, I dont think it would have made a difference 
to its decision to extend the credit because Mrs Hs income at the time appeared to be 
around £1,550 and the initial credit limit was £125.
In June 2018, J D Williams increased Mrs Hs credit limit to £225. In July 2018 it increased 
the limit to £400. The limit was increased further in August and September 2018 to £600 and 
£900 respectively. Finally, in October 2018 the limit was increased to £1,000.
J D Williams did a credit check before each increase which showed nothing of concern. I 
think it would have been proportionate for J D Williams to have checked Mrs Hs income in 
some way at the point of the first and second increases. And I think it would have been 
proportionate for J D Williams to additionally check Mrs Hs expenditure  such as her living 
expenses  at the point of the third and fourth increases.
But even if it had I dont think it would have made a difference to the decisions to increase 
the lending. I dont have copies of Mrs Hs bank statements from the time of some of the 
increases, but I have reviewed her statements from September 2018 to November 2018 
inclusive. Mrs Hs income and expenditure seem relatively stable over this period and I have 
no reason to think the statements arent a reasonable representation of her income and 
expenditure from May 2018, too. The bank statements do not include utilities which may be 
paid from another account (belonging to Mrs H or another person in the household 
responsible for them). Mrs H appeared to have a reasonable amount of disposable income 
after her essential expenditure was met, demonstrating she could sustainably afford the 
additional borrowing. 
I think by the time of the fifth and final increase that it would have been proportionate for J D 
Williams to have verified Mrs Hs financial circumstances to ensure the account remained affordable. I say this because although the checks which ought to have been done would 
have shown that the lending was affordable, Mrs H didnt have a long enough relationship 
with J D Williams to confidently say she could sustainably afford the additional borrowing. If J 
D Williams had done this, I think its likely it would have seen that Mrs H had a disposable 
income of about £230 a month which would have indicated she was able to sustainably 
afford the additional borrowing.
In addition to her bank statements Mrs H has provided a copy of her credit file. Even if J D 
Williams had seen this I do not think there was anything to suggest Mrs H was in financial 
trouble or could not meet the repayments on her account. I can also see from the information 
provided by J D Williams that Mrs H maintained her account well, paying more than the 
minimum amount each month until January 2019 when she missed a payment. She made a 
further payment in February 2019, but this wasnt enough to cover the minimum payment. 
After this, Mrs H didnt make any more payments on the account. The debt was eventually 
sold to a third party in September 2019.
On reviewing the account history, including the repayment history and running account 
balance, I think there was sufficient evidence to show that by June 2019 Mrs H was 
struggling to maintain her account. I say this because Mrs H hadnt met the minimum 
repayment for six months by this point and had missed four consecutive payments and six 
payments in total overall).
If J D Williams had given greater consideration to how the account was being managed I 
think it would have concluded the credit was no longer suitable. J D Williams has provided 
evidence that it tried to contact Mrs H to speak to her about her circumstances but that she 
did not respond. So I think it would have been appropriate for the account to be frozen in 
June 2019. 
As this did not happen I think Mrs H may have lost out as a result. 
How to put things right
I think its fair and reasonable for J D Williams to fund any interest and charges incurred by 
Mrs H incurred as a result of the failure to freeze her account in June 2019. J D Williams 
should:
remove any interest and charges incurred after 1 Jun 2019 (including any buy now 
pay later interest). That is, J D Williams can only add interest accrued on the 
balance up to and including 31 May 2019. 
J D Williams should work out how much Mrs H would have owed after the
above adjustments. Any repayment Mrs H made since 1 June 2019
should be used to reduce the adjusted balance.
If this clears the adjusted balance any funds remaining should be refunded to
Mrs H along with 8% simple interest per year* - calculated from the date of 
overpayment to the date of settlement.
If after all adjustments have been made Mrs H no longer owes any money then all 
adverse information regarding this account should be removed from the credit file 
from 01 June 2019.
Or, if an outstanding balance remains, J D Williams should look to arrange an
affordable payment plan with Mrs H for the outstanding amount. As the debt was sold 
to a third party, J D Williams are to either repurchase the debt or liaise with Lowell to 
ensure the above steps are undertaken. Once Mrs H has cleared the balance, any 
adverse information should be removed from the credit file.*HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mrs H a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I think JD Williams acted unfairly when it didnt freeze Mrs Hs account in June 2019.  To put 
this right I direct J D Williams & Company Limited, trading as Simply Be, to pay 
compensation as explained in How to put things right.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Rekha Kerai
Ombudsman