DRN-2227412
The complaint
Mr T says Newcastle Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Mr T took out a mortgage with Newcastle Building Society (NBS) in 1990. Around the same 
time, he took out a PPI policy. 
If Mr T had made a successful claim on the policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, it 
would have paid his monthly mortgage payments for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr T disagreed with 
the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me for final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts case.
Where, as in this case, the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what 
I thinks most likely to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Due to the time thats passed, NBS no longer has copies of the paperwork Mr T signed 
when he took out the mortgage and PPI. I dont think thats surprising or unreasonable, 
given that this was around 30 years ago.
NBS has provided samples of the mortgage application forms that were in use when 
Mr T applied for his mortgage. And I think its likely the application Mr T completed was 
in a similar format. The form included equally prominent options to take or decline PPI. 
And if Mr T wanted PPI, hed have needed to complete a separate application form for it. 
I acknowledge that Mr T feels strongly that he wasnt told that the PPI was optional. But 
I cant fairly decide that he was told he had to take the cover, based purely on his 
recollection of a conversation that took place so many years ago. On balance, Im 
satisfied that it would have been clear to Mr T that the PPI was optional. And I think its 
most likely that he took it out knowing that he had a choice  although I can understand 
how he may no longer remember this, so long after the event.
NBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr T. This means it didnt need to check that it was 
suitable for him. It was for Mr T to decide whether he wanted the cover, knowing what 
alternative means hed have had of making his monthly mortgage payments if he was off 
sick, or if he lost his job. But NBS did have a responsibility to give Mr T enough 
information to enable him to decide whether the policy was right for him.
Ive borne in mind that Mr Ts told us hed have been entitled to six months full sick pay 
from his employer at the time, followed by half pay after that. But if hed made a 
successful claim on the PPI for accident or sickness, it would have paid his monthly 
mortgage payments for up to 12 months. Thats longer than Mr Ts told us hed have 
been entitled to full sick pay for. And it would have paid out the same benefit if hed 
made a successful claim for unemployment. Whats more, the policy would have paid out 
in addition to any payments Mr T received from his employer. So he could have used 
those to meet other expenses.
Mr Ts told us he worked in a very secure line of employment, and people with his skills 
were in high demand. So he had no fear of redundancy, and he believes hed never have 
been in a position to claim. He also says his sickness record was excellent, and hed had 
very little time off sick in the previous ten years. But the PPI was designed to protect the 
policyholder in the event of unexpected situations. And there can be no guarantee that 
any job will always be secure in all circumstances, or that anyone wont need time off 
work due to accident or sickness. 
I acknowledge that Mr T has told us he was a member of an insurance scheme which 
would have supported him and his family in the case of hardship. And he was a member 
of another scheme which would have supported his family if he died, and of a healthcare 
scheme. But none of those provided the same cover as PPI. So I dont think they meant 
that Mr T didnt need the PPI. Mr Ts also mentioned that he had a large share-holding. 
He says hed used some of that as a deposit on his house. But Ive borne in mind that 
hed chosen to keep the remaining shares as an investment, rather than selling them and 
taking out a smaller mortgage. And having the PPI meant Mr T could have continued to 
protect his remaining shares if hed been off sick for an extended period, or if hed lost 
his job.
Ive also borne in mind that the mortgage was a significant long-term financial 
commitment, secured on Mr Ts property, and the consequences of falling behind with his 
mortgage payments could have been serious. Taking everything into account, I think the 
policy could have been useful for Mr T.
Its possible the information NBS gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied that Mr T chose to take out the policy. So 
I think he wanted this type of cover, even if hes understandably forgotten this now. 
Based on what hes told us about his circumstances at the time, Mr T wasnt affected by 
any of the main things the policy didnt cover (for example, unusual working 
arrangements, or existing medical conditions). 
The policy was competitively priced, and Ive seen nothing to make me think Mr T 
couldnt afford it. So I dont think clearer information about the policy would have led Mr T 
to make a different decision. On balance, I think hed still have taken out the PPI.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr T. I appreciate that he feels strongly that the PPI was mis-sold, 
and I realise its frustrating that Im having to reach my decision without sight of the 
paperwork he signed at the time. But for the reasons Ive set out, I dont find that the PPI 
was mis-sold.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman