DRN-4063382
The complaint
Mrs M says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Mrs M took out two loans from Halifax. The first was for £16,000 over 72 months in January 
2012. The monthly repayments were £300.84 and it was repaid in December 2019. The 
second was for £1,000 over 60 months in October 2015. The monthly repayments were 
£30.11 and it was repaid in July 2021.
Mrs M says the loans were unaffordable for her and Halifax should have known this  her 
current account was with the bank too and she had a large overdraft. She had to take out 
payday loans and release money from her mortgage to make the loan repayments. She says 
the bank should not have allowed her to take such a large loan when she was in financial 
hardship. She adds that the monthly repayments were infact £336.58 for the first loan.
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs Ms complaint. He said the available evidence suggested Halifax 
ought to have been aware neither loan would be sustainably affordable for Mrs M.
Halifax disagreed in part and asked for an ombudsmans review. It said whilst there is limited 
information available for the 2012 loan its lending team would have discussed Mrs Ms 
income and outgoings with her. Plus there is a note showing her overdraft was reduced to 
£300 at this time and it was flagged not to approve any further lending for the next 12 
months. 
It said Mrs Ms bank statements prior to the loan show no payday lending and payments to 
only one other lender. Mrs M had a large overdraft but this loan was to repay that, and her 
other debts. Her bank statements show she did this and so the loan was beneficial for her. It 
disagreed that her bank statements from the months prior to the loan show Mrs M had no 
disposable income, rather they show a surplus amount was available. It agreed with the 
adjudicators findings about loan 2.
Mrs M disagreed with the banks response, saying the payments Halifax has classed as not 
essential were for services she was in long term contracts for and could not cancel. The 
bank has not taken into account that some of the ATM transactions were for travel to work 
and so essential. She was also spending £100 a month repaying an informal loan to her 
mother, although that was suspended for the month of December 2011. The banks figure for 
£55 on groceries in December cannot be correct either. There was only ever a surplus as 
she had released money from her mortgage, and thats why her income was higher at times.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
As it is no longer in dispute that Halifax should not have given the second loan to Mrs M, I 
will focus on the first loan. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mrs Ms complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Halifax complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs M 
would be able to repay the loan without experiencing significant adverse consequences?
- If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs M wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Halifax act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Halifax to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mrs Ms ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Halifax had to think about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mrs M. In practice this
meant that the business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause
Mrs M undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Halifax to simply think about the likelihood of it
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs M.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mrs Ms complaint.
Unfortunately, but not unreasonably, there is limited information available from the 
application process for the first loan. Halifax says its lending team would have reviewed    
Mrs Ms income and expenditure with her to ensure the loan was affordable. It also reduced 
her overdraft limit to £300 as she was using part of the loan to clear her overdraft and placed 
a hold on any further lending for 12 months.As the notes from this review are no longer available both Halifax and the adjudicator looked 
at Mrs Ms bank statements from the months prior to her application to see what information 
the bank would most likely have been aware of at the time. The adjudicator concluded Mrs M 
did not have enough surplus income to afford this loan. Halifax disagreed saying Mrs M had 
surplus income after taking into account her income, benefits and essential direct debits. 
And we had to consider that the loan was for debt consolidation so Mrs M would be reducing 
her repayments to other creditors ongoing. 
Mrs M sent in bank statements for November and December 2011 and January 2012, so I 
have reviewed these. With the limited other information available I think doing this is a fair 
way to recreate what Halifaxs review most likely showed it.
I am not persuaded they show that the loan would be sustainably affordable. In the two 
months prior to application Mrs M spent an average of £1901.58 on what I can identify as 
fixed housing/living costs and credit commitments:
Nov-11 £Dec-11£
TAIT (informal loan) 100 TAIT (informal loan) paused
contract heating 14.83 contract heating 14.83
TV L 10.62 TV L 12.12
S Life 19.54 S Life 19.54
Denplan 37.24 Denplan 37.24
Elec 47 Elec 47
Sky 81.5 Sky 81.5
Gas 88 Gas 88
Gym 103.25 Gym 103.25
Directline 915.81 Directline 915.81
Panacea fin 17.12 Panacea fin 17.12
Cap One 300 Cap One 0
Virgin 213.82 Virgin 138.02
B/card 175 B/card 175
A/c fee 15 A/c fee 15
I have included the two direct debits Halifax excluded as Mrs M has explained she was in 
12-month contracts and so could not just cancel them. I have not included any grocery costs, 
and this does not include an allocation for the work travel costs that Mrs M has said were 
paid for with cash  so arguably these outgoings are understated. Given Mrs Ms monthly 
income was £2,081.20 I cant see she had enough disposable income to take on this loan.
I accept her credit commitments would reduce after she repaid her credit card  Halifax has 
confirmed it fell by around £110. She would also no longer be paying an overdraft fee which 
was around £55 a month. But that is not a significant enough gain in disposable income to 
change my finding. I acknowledge that there are transfers in from other accounts that make 
it hard to fully understand Mrs Ms financial position, but based on the available evidence I 
think Halifax ought to have concluded there was a risk this loan would not be sustainably 
affordable for Mrs M.  
I note the parties do not agree about the value of the contractual repayments for this loan but 
I do not need to make a finding on this issue given my overall conclusion.
It follows I think Halifax was wrong to give this first loan to Mrs M. I have found no evidence Halifax acted unfairly towards Mrs M in some other way in relation 
to either loan.
Putting things right  for both loans
I think it is fair Mrs M repaid the capital she borrowed as she had the benefit of that money. 
But I dont think it is fair she has paid interest and charges on loans that have been found to 
be lent irresponsibly. So Halifax should:
Refund all interest and charges on both loans  so add up the total Mrs M repaid for 
each loan and deduct the sum from the capital amount of the respective loan.
As that will result in Mrs M having repaid more than she received the overpayments 
should be refunded to her along with 8% simple interest*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ms credit file in relation to both 
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must give Mrs M a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
My final decision
I am upholding Mrs Ms complaint. Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, must put things 
right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman