DRN-3929395
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint is about a secured loan they have with Elderbridge Limited. They 
have complained that the original lender didnt discuss with them whether they wanted to 
make regular overpayments to the loan. They have said that if it had done so, they would 
have made overpayments before 2018 and would have repaid the loan sooner. 
Elderbridge took over the loan in 2016, but the original lender remains responsible for any 
acts or omissions before the transfer.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H arranged the loan with the original lender in 2008. The loan was for £82,000 
over a term of 25 years and arranged on a repayment basis. The monthly payment was set 
at £701.20. In June 2018 Mr and Mrs H increased the amount they were paying each month 
to £725.
In November 2021 Mr H called Elderbridge to increase the monthly payment to £750 and 
this was processed. At that time, because it was less than 14 days until the monthly payment 
was due, and so the payment had been called for through the direct debit system, 
Elderbridge couldnt confirm how much would be collected from Mr and Mrs Hs account that 
month. They complained about this and that they hadnt been told about the options for 
making overpayments at the time of the sale.
Elderbridge responded to the complaint on 17 November 2021. It explained why there had 
been an issue with confirming the amount that would be collected in November 2021 and 
what it should have done to avoid this situation. Elderbridge apologised to Mr and Mrs H that 
this had happened. In relation to the matter of overpayments, it explained that due to the 
nature of the loan, the original lender hadnt been obliged to have the conversation 
Mr and Mrs H believed it should have. As such it didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs H referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service as they were 
unhappy with Elderbridges response. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint. Ultimately, he explained that while 
Elderbridge had responded to the complaint about the lack of discussion about 
overpayments at the point of sale, that matter was the responsibility of the original lender. As 
such, we are considering this matter under a separate complaint against the original lender. 
In relation to the matter of the amendment of the direct debit in November 2021, he believed 
that in providing an explanation and apology, Elderbridge had done enough.
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept the investigators conclusions, but didnt make any further 
comment about the direct debit amendment mistake.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Elderbridge has acknowledged that the service Mr and Mrs H received in November 2021 
when Mr H called to increase their monthly payment was not what it should have been. As 
such, I dont need to determine if Elderbridge did something wrong, and can simply consider 
what if any redress or compensation is needed to put things right. 
Elderbridge has confirmed that its member of staff should not have tried to amend the direct 
debit at the point they did in the collection process. Rather Mr H should have been asked to 
call back after the November payment. As such, there was no financial loss caused to 
Mr and Mrs H because the first increased payment would always have been collected in 
December 2021. 
The timing of Mr and Mrs Hs request was unfortunate and Elderbridge has apologised for 
how it handled the matter and the ambiguity that was caused. In the circumstances, I am 
satisfied Elderbridge providing the explanation it did and its apology was sufficient. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision 
before 14 April 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman