DRN-2172133
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Plc RSA handled a claim he 
made under his residential property owners policy. Mrs S is assisting Mr S in his complaint.
All reference to RSA in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
Mr S rents out a bungalow to tenants. Mr S made two claims under his policy with the 
insurer, RSA in 2015: one related to an escape of water from a boiler in the loft and one for 
an escape of water in the hallway. For ease Ill refer to the claims as the loft claim and the 
hall claim.
Mr S says he first reported the loft damage to RSA in April 2015. He said he was advised to 
try and recover the costs to repair the damage from the installer of the boiler, who Mr S said 
had admitted liability. If he was unsuccessful, RSA told Mr S to come back to it and it would 
look to recover the costs from the third partys insurer (TPI).
In July 2015 Mr S made a claim for an escape of water following the discovery of damp in 
the hall which was coming from the floor via the bathroom/shower. 
In September 2015 RSA wrote to Mr S to say if it didnt hear from him in relation to the hall 
leak, it would close the claim. In response, Mr S called RSA. He understood this letter 
related to the loft claim. However, RSA hadnt set up a claim for the loft damage before Mr 
Ss call on 29 September 2015. 
In February 2020 Mr S complained. He said he and Mrs S had provided RSA with details of 
the installer. They were unhappy theyd had to chase RSA for updates. They said it was 
clear that RSA hadnt correctly separated the claims and so this led to poor service in 
progressing the loft claim and looking to recover the costs from the TPI. They were very 
unhappy with RSAs decision to close the loft claim because it said it had limited prospects 
of success. Mr S wanted RSA to recover the costs and this would mean the excess he paid 
would be refunded to him. 
Our investigator said that although it was clear RSA had at times confused the two claims, 
this didnt make a difference to the outcome on the loft claim. RSA had contacted the 
installer and attempted to recover its costs. But it had received no reply. And so it decided it 
wasnt economical to continue due to the sums involved, which it was entitled to do. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. They say the dates and details have been incorrectly recorded by 
RSA. This shows mismanagement of the claims and poor service. At the very least a 
business should keep good file notes in order to provide a standard service to its customers. 
So Mr and Mrs S would like an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think there has been some confusion from the outset. I believe Mr and Mrs S contacted 
RSA about the loft claim damage in April 2015. Although RSA gave some advice at this 
stage, I dont think RSA registered a claim. Its file notes start with the claim Mr S registered 
for the hall floor damage in July 2015.
In Mr and Mrs Ss correspondence, its clear they believed the claim ending *09 related to 
the loft claim. But RSA registered the hall floor claim under this number. In September 2015 
Mrs S called on receipt of their letter dated 23 September 2015 quoting *09. It was at this 
point it was established that there should be two claims. Mrs S understood claim *09 to be 
the loft claim. But the first time RSA registered the loft claim was in September under *39. Its 
notes from a call on 28 September 2015 read that Mr S had hoped the installer would claim 
through his insurer, but when he discovered his excess was £500, the installer failed to do 
so. 
I agree with Mr and Mrs S that there was ongoing confusion as I can see RSA mixed up the 
claim details in correspondence with the surveyor and solicitors it sought advice from. 
RSA wrote to the boiler installer several times asking for his comments on the damage and 
for his insurer details. But he didnt reply. 
RSAs notes show that it reached a decision not to pursue the matter in July 2016. I think 
RSA should have informed Mr S of their decision. However, on 5 September 2016 its notes 
show that Mrs S called for an update and was advised of their decision then. She asked 
RSA to contact the installer again in any event. RSA wrote to the installer on 5 September 
2016 but received no reply. It passed the claim to its solicitors for a second review. 
Mr S said he contacted the solicitors in October 2017 and they told him they hadnt 
considered the loft claim and closed the hall floor claim in March 2016. 
Ive seen a copy of an email from March 2016 from the solicitors to RSA. They refer to both 
claims. In relation to the loft claim, they asked for a copy of the file as there was a possibility 
of seeking recovery of costs from the TPI. However, RSA failed to do this until the solicitor 
contacted it after speaking with Mr S in October 2017. On 31 October 2017 its notes show it 
sent the file to solicitors to consider. 
Its notes show RSA intended to abandon recovery if it doesnt receive a reply. RSA sent a 
final letter to the installer on 9 October 2017 and asked him to reply within 21 days to avoid 
further action. 
Mr S says he contacted RSA in July 2019 and was advised both claims had been closed, but 
that RSA agreed to re-open the loft claim. In October 2019 Mrs S provided RSA with details 
of the installers insurer. 
In January 2020 Mr S said RSA told him that it had limited chances of successfully 
recovering the costs from the third party. And so the claim remained closed. 
RSA has a common term which Ive seen in most  if not all insurance policies. This allows 
RSA to settle a claim as it sees fit. This means it might make a decision Mr S disagrees with, 
but the policy entitles RSA to do this. We dont disagree with this term in principle provided 
an insurer can show it treated its customer fairly when applying it.
I think there were times when RSA failed to progress the claim and give updates to Mr S. 
And I think its failure to clearly separate the claims meant it delayed sending the file to solicitors to consider the prospects of success in pursuing recovery from the installers 
insurer. I can understand Mr and Mrs Ss frustration. RSA should have passed the file to 
solicitors in March 2016 when requested. This didnt happen until October 2017. 
However, its also the case that the chances of a successful recovery of costs from a third 
party can vary widely. And although RSA at times caused delay and confusion, I dont think it 
changed the outcome. I say this because RSA contacted the installer on several occasions 
between May 2016 and October 2017, but he didnt reply. And so the next stage would be 
for RSA to consider legal action. An insurer is entitled to decide that its better to settle a 
claim on the best terms possible than to pursue it with a risk of significant costs, unless the 
prospects of success in court action are high.
When dealing with a claim, I think its reasonable for an insurer to provide meaningful 
updates and manage a customers expectations. I think the decision to close the loft claim 
was made and communicated to Mrs S in September 2016, given that the installer didnt 
reply to RSAs letters between May and September 2016. Mr and Mrs S say RSA agreed to 
re-open the case and so raised their expectations. And I understand this led to Mr and Mrs S 
requesting updates from RSA with ultimately no change in outcome. But I think RSAs 
agreement to re-open the claim in September 2016 was a reasonable approach to take. I 
wouldnt have criticised RSA if it had made a different decision here. 
So although there were some failings in RSAs handling of the case, I think it reconsidered 
the claim and its decision to settle it was reached reasonably and in line with the policy.
This means that as RSA didnt recover the costs of the claim from the TPI, the excess Mr S 
paid as the first part of the claim hasnt been recovered. 
I understand Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed. But taking everything into account, I dont 
think RSA needs to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman