DRN-2750885
The complaint and what happened
Mr B complains on behalf of his business, which Ill call B, that Advanced Payment 
Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus, wont reimburse transactions he didnt make or 
otherwise authorise. 
  
The full details of this complaint as well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
here. Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
On 21 January 2021, Mr B received a call, purportedly from Cashplus (it was 
recognised as such by Mr Bs phone), using a Cashplus number asking if a payment 
of £270 had been made by hiM. He was also asked if he had tried to reset his 
password recently. As he said no. Mr B was told hed need to secure his account by 
forwarding on an email he received and giving security codes sent, to prove it was 
him. 
Mr B says he didnt share any further details but was told he wouldnt be able to 
access the account for 24 hours. It was only when he tried to log in the following day 
and couldnt that he realised something was wrong. And when trying to call Cashplus 
he discovered his available balance was only £7. 
Unbeknownst to Mr B, between 14.27pm and 15.13pm on 21 January 2021, 11 
transactions totalling £29,660 had been made from Bs account. 
Cashplus declined to reimburse the transactions and associated charges as Mr B 
had shared One Time Passcodes (OTPs) which enabled the transactions to take 
place.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She wasnt persuaded Mr B authorised the 
transactions. And given how the scam unfolded she wasnt persuaded he had failed 
to keep his security credential safe with intent or acted with gross negligence. She 
also found the pattern of payments themselves ought to have triggered Cashpluss 
systems such that it ought to have intervened during the very first payment.  
Cashplus didnt agree it had done anything wrong and asked for the matter to be referred to 
an ombudsman. Since then, it has made an offer to Mr B to reimburse £23,110 to B  thats 
all transactions inclusive of the third payment onwards. Mr B has declined the offer as he 
believes B is entitled to full reimbursement. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), B isnt liable for 
payments it didnt authorise or otherwise consent to, unless Mr B (acting on its 
behalf) failed with gross negligence or intent, to comply with the terms of the account 
or keep the account security details safe.
Ive considered whether Mr B authorised the transactions that have been disputed  
and so, in line with the PSRs, whether he completed the agreed steps in the form 
and procedure required to make the payments or gave someone else consent to 
complete them. 
The investigator concluded the likely steps required logging into Bs account, enter 
the payment information (sort code, account number etc), enter a OTP if required 
and confirm the payment. Cashplus hasnt disputed this and so I proceed on the 
same basis. 
It doesnt appear in dispute that Mr B shared information he was sent and forwarded 
on emails. But I havent seen any persuasive evidence or arguments that it was Mr B 
that completed the steps needed in order for the payments to be made, or that he 
consented to someone else doing so. As Im not persuaded Mr B completed all the 
agree steps to make the payments from Bs account, or that he consented to 
someone else doing so, I find the total payments of £29,660 were unauthorised. 
I dont find Mr B failed with intent to keep the security credentials safe  he believed 
the information provided was necessary to secure the account. 
I also dont find he failed with gross negligence. Mr B believed he was speaking with 
Cashplus. Mr B has told us the call came from the number recorded as Cashplus. So 
it would appear the genuine Cashplus number was spoofed. 
Mr B told us the caller sounded professional and so I can understand, with the call 
seemingly coming from Cashplus, why Mr B believed the caller was genuine. 
Mr B was asked to forward on emails to another Cashplus email address to show he 
had access to the email connected to the account. I can see this was to add another 
device to the account  presumably for the fraudster to use. Although Cashplus has 
argued the email address wasnt one of its, I dont think Mr B would or could have 
known that, particularly as cashplus appeared in the address. Given Mr B was trying 
to take steps to protect the account, I can understand why he would have followed 
the instructions given. 
Mr B says he was only sent one OTP passcode. Cashplus says it was four and 
provided evidence. However, I note that evidence appears to be dated 22 January 
the day after the transactions in dispute. The records it provided dont suggest OTPs 
were sent at all, as there is nothing dated for 21 January 2021. So although the 
OTPs do warn they shouldnt be shared, which might have caused someone to 
pause, it doesnt appear that is what Mr B was actually sent. But even if it was, there 
is nothing within the OTP that suggests a payment is being made, or who to. And in 
the moment of being told he needed to secure the account, I can understand why a 
warning not to share might be missed, particular when he is being told the steps 
being taken are necessary to protect against fraud.  Overall, I dont think he seriously 
disregarded an obvious risk or therefore, failed with gross negligence. I think a lot of 
people would have been fooled into doing the same or something similar.
I dont think Mr Bs actions fell so far below what a reasonable person would have 
done that it amounts to gross negligence. So I conclude Mr B, on behalf of B, isnt 
liable for the transactions in dispute and Cashplus needs to put things right  by 
refunding the full loss from the unauthorised transactions, alongside any associated 
charges, and interest to compensate B for the loss of use of those funds. 
I also understand failing to reimburse these funds has caused B cashflow problems 
such that it has struggled to continue operating as normal, pay staff and it hadnt 
been clear how it would pay an upcoming tax bill. I therefore find the investigators 
recommendation of £300 for the inconvenience caused to be a reflection of the 
impact Cashplus decision not to refund sooner has had.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. I require Advanced Payment Solutions 
Limited trading as Cashplus, to:Refund all of the unauthorised transactions totalling £29,660 (less any amounts since 
recovered if applicable).
Add 8% simply interest per annum from the date of loss to the date of settlement 
(less any lawfully deductible tax)
Refund all fees and charges incurred as a result of the unauthorised transactions. 
Pay B £300 for the inconvenience caused. 
These payments should be made to an account of Bs choosing. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman