DRN-2880821
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Ms K says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Ms Ks 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Ms Ks representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Ks. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Ms Ks complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Bank of Scotland plc made it clear that Ms K didnt have to take out the PPI and 
she chose to take it out. I explain why I say this below. There is very limited evidence 
from the time of the sale of the policy. Barclays hasnt been able to give us any of the 
original paperwork from the time of the sale. But I dont find this surprising as the sale 
took place over 24 years ago and businesses arent obliged to keep paperwork indefinity. 
But where there is limited information, Ill make my decision based on what I think more 
likely happened, taking into account the evidence available, what both parties have told 
me and what we know about these types of sale. So, considering how long ago the sale 
was, and in the absence of any detailed testimony from Ms K to the contrary, I think it 
more likely that Ms K chose to take the cover and did so knowing she didnt have to. 
Bank of Scotland plc recommended the PPI to Ms K, so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for her. And the evidence about Ms Ks circumstances at the time, shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For example, Ms K was eligible 
for the cover and although she had existing means she still seems to have had a need 
for cover. The cover would have paid out in addition to Ms Ks company sick pay and for 
longer than her employer would have paid her at her full rate of pay. And Ms K told us 
she had no other means she could have relied on, in the event she was too ill to work for 
a long time, or if she lost her job. So, I think the policy could have been useful to Ms K.  
There was nothing about Ms Ks employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical conditions 
that could affect her ability to claim. 
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland plc gave Ms K about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like 
she wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Ms K as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from 
the information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it 
would have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Ms 
K would have declined the cover had Bank of Scotland plc done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Ms Ks circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations, 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So, I think she would have 
still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Ms K said she would have turned 60 while the policy was in force and so she would have 
not been eligible for the cover from that time. However, Ms K was 45 at the time of the 
sale and the policy would have covered Ms K until the age of 65. So, there were many 
years of cover available to Ms K under the policy. So, I do not believe that better 
information about this would have led her to avoid the policy. 
Overall, I consider that Ms K would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Ms Ks representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Bank of Scotland plc should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Ms Ks representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Ms Ks individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Ms Ks particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Bank of Scotland plc doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
non-disclosure of commission
Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Bank of Scotland plc didnt need to disclose the commission it 
received, so Bank of Scotland plc doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr and 
Mrs C paid. My reasons are set out below.
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin 
v Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the 
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to 
follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes 
need to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies.
But this only applies to credit taken out and still running at certain times. From the 
information that has been submitted in this case those dates do not apply to the date this 
credit was taken out and held until, so it falls outside of the scope for our consideration. So, 
I dont think Bank of Scotland plc have to refund any of the commission paid on the PPI 
policy.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Ms Ks complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman