DRN-1632879
The complaint
Miss Cs unhappy with the sale of her pet insurance policy by Animal Friends Insurance 
Services Ltd.
A representative has been involved in bringing this complaint on behalf of Miss C, but for 
simplicity Ill just refer to her in this decision.
What happened
In September 2019 Miss Cs dog needed surgery on her knee. The claim was turned down 
by the underwriters of Miss Cs policy, saying she hadnt declared some previous medical 
history of her dog when she first took out the policy with Animal Friends.
Miss C said this wasnt true. She said shed told Animal Friends about her dogs previous 
medical history so wanted to raise a complaint about that as she felt the policy had been 
mis-sold.
One of our investigators raised these issues to Animal Friends on Miss Cs behalf. Animal 
Friends came back, and said they believed she hadnt told them based on the information 
they had. They also said the policy was sold over the phone, and given the sale was in 2010 
they no longer have the call recording to check what was discussed.
Our investigator considered the evidence from Miss C and Animal Friends and in summary 
felt it was more likely than not that Miss C hadnt disclosed her dogs medical conditions.
Miss C strongly disagreed with this. She felt our investigator wasnt being impartial, was 
calling her a liar, and was concerned that even without evidence hed decided she hadnt 
told Animal Friends about her dogs medical conditions. Because of that, the complaints 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sometimes we wont always have all the information needed to be sure whats actually 
happened  especially when a significant amount of time has passed. In those situations, I 
need to decide what I think is more likely than not to have happened taking into account all 
of the information that can be provided.
Miss C had a claim turned down which is the subject of a separate complaint and isnt 
covered here. But the claim was turned down because her dog had a medical condition that 
shed apparently not told her underwriters about  and because this condition was treated 
as a related condition.
As the sale was in 2010 theres little evidence from the time to actually rely on. 
Animal Friends have given evidence to show Miss C made a phone call when setting up the 
policy  Im satisfied this does show she called up to set up the policy. Animal Friends have 
also provided a script from 2016 in support of their position that theyd have asked Miss C 
about any previous medical history  but as this is dated six years after the sale, I dont think 
I can rely on it. Theyve also provided Miss Cs pet schedule dated 29 November 2010.
Looking at this schedule it has a section for exclusions. Its usually here Id expect to see any 
exclusions relating to the policy terms, but the section is blank.
So either Miss C didnt tell Animal Friends or, as she says, they made a mistake because 
she did tell them. I dont have the call recording, but since the call was made around ten 
years ago, I dont find this surprising. So, I have to decide what I think is more likely than not 
to have happened. And having considered all the information I dont have sufficient evidence 
to say she did tell them. 
I say that because had she told them on the phone about her dogs medical history, I think 
its likely Animal Friends would then have then discussed these with her. And I think its likely 
theyd have explained what exclusions they were going to apply and checked that was 
suitable for Miss C. I think its likely this is something Miss C would have clearly remembered 
at the time of taking out the policy. And when receiving the pet schedule, it asks Miss C to 
get in touch with Animal Friends if something is wrong  so if she did disclose it, then I think 
she should then have checked with Animal Friends about why the exclusions werent 
showing.
To be clear, Im not doubting what Miss C is telling us now, but memories can and do fade 
over time. And, in any event, even if Miss C did tell Animal Friends about her dogs medical 
history, which I do accept is possible, it wouldnt make a difference to her current situation.
Thats because when a claim is made generally underwriters will look at the animals medical 
history  and if the current claim doesnt meet the policy terms then it wont be met. Thats 
whats happened in Miss Cs case. So regardless of whether she did or didnt disclose her 
dogs medical history  I think shed still find herself in the same position.
In considering Miss Cs claim that the policy was mis-sold, because Animal Friends didnt 
make a note of her previous claims history, I then need to think about whether shed have 
done something different. I think its unlikely she would have  related condition exclusions 
are in most insurance policies of this type so shed have struggled to find cover for this  and 
Miss C would have benefitted from the remaining cover.
So, taking everything into account, I think on balance Miss C didnt tell Animal Friends about 
her dogs medical history  and Ive seen nothing to suggest this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman