DRN-3072938
The complaint
Ms C complains about the way Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) has handled an 
ongoing claim following a water leak at her home.  
What happened
Ms C came back to our service following a previous complaint she had raised with Fairmead. 
That complaint was considered by this service in 2018 after Fairmead had offered Ms C a 
cash settlement of £33,429.95. Ms C was unhappy with this as she said shed spent a total 
of £67,436.96 to put matters right following the water leak. The previous investigator thought 
the amount offered to Ms C was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ms C told us she hadnt been fully recompensed for her building work, her contents, the cost 
of alternative accommodation, cattery costs, vets fees and professional fees. Ms C also told 
us she has medical needs which cannot now be met as the claim has resulted in a huge 
amount of debt. She also said that Fairmeads handling of the claim has caused her further 
health problems.
Fairmead said it had told Ms C in its final response to get in touch if she believed the amount 
offered to be insufficient. It said she failed to provide it with details of actions she took after 
the leak happened and so it was unable to increase its offer due to a lack of evidence 
submitted. 
It also said she had to provide it with full details of all her contents so that a proper validation 
process could be undertaken, but to date it says she hasnt provided full details. In the 
circumstances, therefore, Ms C was paid a total of £38,546.51. 
Ms C remains unhappy with Fairmeads offer to date and so she referred her complaint to 
our service. Our investigator considered all the issues and thought the complaint should be 
upheld in part. 
Both Ms C and Fairmead disagreed with our investigators assessment and so the complaint 
has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and have decided to uphold this complaint in 
part, for largely the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Building and contents
In insurance complaints like these we need to ensure that the work done, and being 
compensated for, does not constitute betterment of the property  unless we feel this is a 
requirement in order to facilitate a lasting and effective repair.
In Ms Cs previous case with us, an investigator assessed whether the offer made by 
Fairmead at the time was reasonable  and so I cannot comment on matters which have 
been dealt with under a previous complaint or say that the previous offer was unreasonable. 
I can however focus on whats happened since then, and in doing so I have to bear in mind 
that the previous investigator made it clear that for additional costs to be paid, Ms C would 
need to provide Fairmead with evidence of those costs being incurred in the first instance. 
Ive also had regard for Ms Cs health conditions which I appreciate make it difficult for her to 
communicate and provide evidence. But I also dont think I can reasonably ask Fairmead to 
reimburse Ms C for costs that it doesnt have sufficient evidence of, or that cant be attributed 
to the water leak. 
Ms C says shes paid £31,479.68 towards building work. This includes the cost of 
decontaminating the property too. But Fairmead has apportioned only £9,378.45 of its cash 
settlement offer to building work.
Ive considered the expert reports provided  and I agree with how our investigator has 
interpreted these. The report provided by Fairmead details the mould growth in the various 
areas of the property. In relation to the bathroom, the expert doesnt suggest that the mould 
growth is as a result of the escape of water  but gives other possible reasons why there 
might be mould growth in that area, such as water gathering on the floor after bathing, drying 
of clothing indoors and keeping toilet lids closed for prolonged periods of time. Ive 
considered what Ms C has said about keeping her windows open during the summer 
months, but that doesnt persuade me that the mould couldnt have occurred during other 
months when the property might not have been ventilated as frequently. And its entirely 
possible from what Ive seen that the contamination occurred for reasons not related to the 
water leak. So I dont have enough evidence to persuade me that the bathroom needed to 
be stripped out as part of this claim. 
Similarly, theres no evidence to show why the kitchen needed to be replaced. The expert 
report Fairmead has provided doesnt show that the damage to the kitchen is related to the 
insured event either. It says there was an active infestation of dust mites within that area of 
the property which couldve contributed to illnesses but gives a number of possible reasons 
why this might occur  reasons which are unrelated to the water leak.
Despite the report suggesting there may be other causes for the mould growth and dust 
mites present at the property (causes which did not relate directly to the leak) I note that 
Fairmead agreed to cover Ms Cs costs for decontaminating the property. I have taken 
account of Ms Cs arguments  including her submission that Fairmeads expert has himself 
accepted that the mould was caused by the leak, but I dont agree that the report confirms 
the leak to be the main cause. It lists the possible causes as the leak, the occupants 
lifestyle, dampness due to historic defects, environmental conditions and residual moisture 
to the bases of walls. So I dont consider the expert to have confirmed that the mould growth 
was most likely to be as a result of the leak.
Ms C has sent us an article about harmful mould which has been written by the same expert 
who provided the report. But this article is not evidence which is specific to Ms Cs property  
and although she believes the article contradicts the report, in considering the relevant 
issues I have placed a greater amount of weight on the report than on the evidence provided by Ms C, as the report is more detailed and is specific to Ms Cs property. The article talks 
about mould in more general terms and so it is not something that I can rely on in 
understanding the cause of the mould in Ms Cs home, as it doesnt comment on this. It was 
also written in 2005  over a decade ago, so might not be relevant today.
I can understand why it was difficult for Ms C to provide evidence in relation to her contents, 
but this in turn made it difficult for Fairmead to properly assess the damage caused by the 
leak. Despite this, Fairmead agreed to cover the cost of several items without receiving 
sufficient evidence from Ms C. And because it hasnt received any further evidence, I wont 
be requiring it to cover the cost of any more of her contents. 
It follows therefore that based on the evidence provided, I wont be requiring Fairmead to 
increase its offer in relation to the building work or Ms Cs contents.
Alternative accommodation
Fairmead paid over £10,000 for alternative accommodation costs  the equivalent of six 
months worth of rent for a suitable property. Due to Ms Cs health conditions it was 
important for her vulnerability to be factored into Fairmeads consideration of what a suitable 
property might be for her to live in whilst building works were undertaken.
Ms C has carers who visit her daily as she cant do everyday things. Her GP has provided a 
letter which explains how her condition affects her. This mentions issues such as being 
unable to open the door to let her carers in, finding it difficult to manage a rental property or 
to attend an estate agents office to show identification. I can understand why a care home 
was initially thought to be the most appropriate accommodation for Ms C in the 
circumstances. 
Ms C did end up staying in a care home, as there were issues around the security of a rental 
property (for example, where to leave a key so that her carers could gain access). I can 
certainly appreciate why a vulnerable person would place a great deal of importance on 
safety and security  and why, in light of this, Ms C opted to go into a care home. Fairmead 
has said the estate agent apologised for not taking her needs into account, but by this point 
Ms C had experienced poor service from the agent and so its understandable why she didnt 
wish to continue with that option.
The cost of an eight-week stay in the care home was more than the cost apportioned by 
Fairmead for a six-month rental property. So I think Fairmead should pay the cost of Ms Cs 
stay at the care home. It was a necessity due to Ms Cs ill-health and I dont think it wouldve 
been suitable for Ms C to stay in rented accommodation for the reasons explained.
Fairmead has raised a point about the duration of the works, asking why it took longer than 
three weeks to carry out the remedial work to the property  which its own contractors had 
estimated. We dont know why it took longer than estimated, but the evidence shows it was 
difficult for Ms C to find a builder before December 2018  and so she stayed in the property 
until then. 
Ms C moved into the care home for eight weeks and then lived with a relative for the rest of 
the time. And there was no cost to her for staying in her relatives home. I think its fair for 
Fairmead to cover the cost of the care home, even though it took longer than anticipated to 
carry out the work. I say this because Ms Cs stay in the care home was the only viable 
option  and although theres no evidence to show why the work took as long as it did, I 
dont think the time it took was unreasonable. Estimates of a few weeks can often turn into 
more realistic timeframes of a couple of months, and Fairmead has accepted it could have 
taken up to five weeks. I dont think a period of eight weeks to do the work compared to an estimate of three to five weeks constitutes an unusual discrepancy  when this is fairly 
common in construction.
Fairmead has also said its unfair for it to have to pay for the higher cost of accommodation 
just because it agreed to carry out some uninsured works (decontamination) as these works 
went above what the expert recommended. I understand why Fairmead thinks it wouldnt be 
reasonable, but I disagree with what its said here. The payment in respect of the care home 
isnt simply due to the ex-gratia or goodwill payment made for the uninsured works. The cost 
of the care home ought to be covered as it was the most viable option for Ms C at the time, 
and  although Fairmead doesnt think other options were fairly considered, such as other 
rental properties, Ms Cs condition means this case should be looked at differently to other 
similar complaints, in which other options might have been suitable and where a consumer 
might have been able to easily search for such options without much help. 
In Ms Cs case, and largely due to her health issues, I dont think its fair to have expected 
her to have exhausted all her options before choosing a suitable place to live. Thats why I 
think Fairmead needs to pay for the cost of the care home, which was a direct cost 
associated with the insured event and the subsequent remedial work.
Cattery costs and vets fees
Because Ms C stayed in a care home, she had to place her cats in a cattery. The time they 
were in the cattery amounted to seven months and the cost of this was almost £5000. Whilst 
I can appreciate Fairmeads comments that costs shouldve been put to Fairmead before 
Ms C incurred them, I also have to have regard for the fact that everyday things are not as 
easy for Ms C as they are for others. So I can appreciate why certain costs were incurred 
first and Fairmead was notified after she had taken care of matters. I dont think its 
unreasonable for a person with significant health problems to put their health and wellbeing 
ahead of administrative tasks. And I also agree with our investigator that Ms C was acting on 
a suggestion made by the investigator of her first complaint, that she proceed with building 
works and then provide proof that the settlement was insufficient to cover them. 
Having said this, I wont be requiring Fairmead to cover the cost of the cattery in its entirety  
its fair for it to have to pay the cattery costs for the portion of the time Ms C was in the care 
home only, because she was unable to keep pets at the care home and would only have 
been able to do so in certain rented accommodation  which as Ive explained was an 
unsuitable option.
In relation to the vets fees, whilst Im sorry to hear that Ms Cs cat suffered with a condition 
which must have been very upsetting and unpleasant, Im afraid that as our investigator 
mentioned, we dont know for certain why her cat developed this condition and theres no 
evidence linking the condition with the insured event directly. So I wont be asking Fairmead 
to pay for vets costs.
Professional fees
Ive thought carefully about whether Fairmead should pay any more towards the professional 
assistance Ms C says she required during this claim. And I dont think it would be fair to ask 
it to do any more in relation to this. Fairmead has already paid £900 towards professional 
fees  and I dont think it was necessary for Ms C to hire additional support, as a project 
manager from the contractor company used should have been sufficient. 
Health
Ms C says her health has been made worse by living in the property and exposure to harmful elements. But the medical evidence provided, before our investigator completed 
their assessment of the case, doesnt confirm that Ms Cs condition was made worse as a 
direct result of the exposure. And although the further letter from Ms Cs GP details how 
Ms Cs condition was made worse by staying in the home between September and 
December 2018, Ms C hasnt explained why she didnt seek alternative accommodation with 
the funds available to her at this point. 
So whilst Im sorry to hear about the effect the property had on Ms Cs health, I cant 
reasonably say Fairmead is responsible for the impact staying in the property at that stage 
had on her.
Despite Fairmead having done a number of things to go above and beyond for Ms C during 
its handling of this claim, I do think there were times when Fairmead could have done more 
 but refused. At times Fairmead has expected of Ms C what it might expect from an able-
bodied customer and I dont consider that reasonable. So I agree with our investigator that a 
distress and inconvenience payment of £350 is fair in the circumstances, particularly given 
the heightened impact that all the problems during this claim wouldve had on Ms C in her 
vulnerable state.
Fairmeads further submissions
Ive listened to the recording provided of a call which took place between Fairmead and 
Ms Cs representative and I appreciate why Fairmead thinks it was made clear that a scope 
of works should be provided. But I also think the phone call deals with a number of other 
issues  and regarding the scope of the building work, Ive not determined that Fairmead 
needs to increase its offer in relation to that work in any event.
Fairmead has made a number of submissions in response to our investigators assessment 
of this complaint  all of which Ive taken into consideration. However, they dont change my 
decision in this case, for the reasons Ive explained. And whilst I havent referred specifically 
to everything each party has said, Id like to reassure both parties Ive taken everything 
theyve said into account in reaching my final decision. And I think would be right for 
Fairmead to do more to put things right for Ms C.
Putting things right
Fairmead must now:
Cover the additional cost of alternative accommodation which comes to £1,816.70, 
plus 8% simple interest per annum on this amount from the date Ms C provided proof 
of the cost of the care home to the date of settlement.
Reimburse Ms C for the cattery fees for the duration of the time she was in the care 
home, subject to Ms C providing evidence of the costs for that period, plus 8% 
interest per annum on this amount from the date Ms C provides proof of the costs 
until the date of settlement.
Pay Ms C £350 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to put things right as Ive 
set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman