DRN-1912343
The complaint
Mr W, represented by a third party, says that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) 
lent money to him that he couldn't afford to repay.
What happened
This complaint is about seven instalment loans that Lending Stream provided to Mr W 
between November 2016 and August 2017. Mr Ws borrowing history is set out below.
Loan Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 16-Nov-16 11-Apr-17 6 £50
2 27-Jan-17 7-Jun-17 6 £100
3 16-Feb-17 7-Jun-17 6 £180
4 3-Mar-17 7-Jun-17 6 £250
5 16-Apr-17 7-Jun-17 6 £130
6 6-Jun-17 7-Jun-17 6 £240
7 25-Aug-17 Not Closed 6 £750
In summary, Mr W says that Lending Stream didn't undertake proper affordability checks 
before each loan, and he was over indebted. He says he was in a debt spiral  taking out 
new loans to repay existing debt.
Lending Stream says that proper and proportionate affordability checks were carried out 
before the loans were provided. It didn't uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ws complaint regarding loans four to seven.
Lending Stream accepted our adjudicators view. It noted that loan seven was still 
outstanding and any refund would be set against the outstanding balance. It said that it 
would discuss an affordable payment arrangement with Mr W if he wished.
Mr W didn't accept our adjudicators view. He said that none of the loans should have been 
provided.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
At the start of the lending relationship it was reasonable that Lending Stream relied 
on the income and expenditure information it was provided, subject to there being no 
reasonable indication that this wasnt correct. In this case I found that the checks 
carried out before the first three loans were provided were proportionate.
Customers who approach short term loan providers will often have issues with their 
credit files which mean that other sources of credit aren't available. Therefore, while 
noting there was adverse information on Mr Ws credit file I did not find that this 
meant the initial loans shouldn't have been provided.
The information for the first loan showed monthly expenses of £1,182 leaving a 
disposable income of only £18. I didnt find that Mr Ws disposable income was 
enough to say that he would be able to sustainably afford the repayments.
The second loan was for a larger amount (£100) and was taken out while the first 
was still outstanding. However, by this time Mr Ws income had increased and his 
disposable income was recorded as £389. Taking the combined repayments into 
account I didnt find it unreasonable that Lending Stream considered this loan to be 
affordable.
The third loan was taken out while the first two were outstanding. Mr Ws disposable 
income was recorded as £89. I didnt find that these repayments should have been 
considered sustainably affordable. 
Loans four to seven were upheld by our adjudicator and Lending Stream accepted 
this. I agreed these loans shouldn't have been provided for the reasons that were set 
out. That is, by loan four Mr W already had several loans outstanding with Lending 
Stream and that this should have alerted Lending Stream to the possibility that he 
was having problems managing his money. 
By loan six, I thought Mr Ws overall pattern of borrowing suggested he had become 
persistently reliant on short-term loans.
Mr W accepted my provisional decision. 
Lending Stream responded to my provisional decision agreeing to the refund of interest and 
charges on the loans upheld in the decision and noting the outstanding balance amount. It 
said this left an amount owing by Mr W of £255.76. Lending Stream also said it would 
remove the entries regarding the loans from Mr Ws credit file and said that it would discuss 
an affordable payment arrangement if needed. This offer was sent to Cs representative. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision our general approach to complaints about short-
term lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  is set 
out on our website.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr W could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. There may come a point where the 
lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that the lending was 
unsustainable.
Based on the information provided in this complaint I set out my reasons for upholding the 
complaint regarding loan one and loans three to seven. As both parties have accepted this 
outcome my decision remains that I uphold this complaint regarding these loans.
Putting things rightIn order to put things right for Mr W, Lending Stream should, as it has agreed:
refund all the interest and charges Mr W paid on loan one and loans three to seven;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information regarding loan one, three, four and five from Mr Ws 
credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan six onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So, all entries about loans six and seven (once repaid) should 
be removed from Mr Ws credit file.
Mr W still has an amount outstanding on loan seven. All interest and charges on this loan 
should be waived and any payments be considered as if they were payments towards the 
capital. The refund above can be used to reduce the outstanding capital balance on loan 
seven and Lending Stream has provided its calculation for this. As there is an outstanding 
balance, Lending Stream should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr W if 
required.
* HM Revenue and Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. 
Lending Stream must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part. Gain Credit LLC should 
take the actions set out above to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman