DRN-1720171
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with his insurers Great Lakes Reinsurance UK SE (GL), who has declined 
his claim under his buildings insurance.
Reference to GL also includes its agents where applicable.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr A reported to GL that his roof had become damaged due to a storm. GL 
sent a loss adjuster to inspect the damage. During the visit, the loss adjuster told Mr A that in 
his opinion the damage to the roof was caused by wear and tear and not a storm. He also 
told him that the claim would likely be declined. 
Following the visit, GL did decline the claim relying on its exclusion clause of wear and tear 
as it said that the timbers were rotten. Also, GL said that there were no storm conditions 
present as the winds werent strong enough to amount to a storm.
Mr A was unhappy with GLs decision to decline his claim. He didnt agree with GLs 
assessment. He said that the weather had amounted to a storm and that it was this that 
caused the damage to the roof. So, GL registered this as a complaint. After its 
investigations, it maintained its position and the claim remained declined. Mr A was upset by 
this and referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that there was no evidence of a storm. 
That the evidence from GL, which included photos, showed that the timbers had become 
rotten. She said that GL could rely on its exclusion clause and it was reasonable for it to 
have declined the claim. 
Mr A didnt agree with our investigator. He still maintained his position and asked for a 
decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I can understand that this is likely to 
come as a disappointment to Mr A, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why 
Ive reached this decision.
In assessing the evidence, I must establish whether there were prevailing storm conditions 
at the time of the claim. 
Was there a storm?
There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether an event 
can be classed as a storm. These are: 
1. Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If any of the answers to the above questions are no then an insurer can, reasonably decline 
a claim. 
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
GL determined that the event didnt amount to a storm. I have considered the local weather 
reports which are usually the best evidence I can rely on to check whether there were 
prevailing storm conditions. These show that there was rainfall around the time of the claim, 
but it wasnt sufficiently heavy enough. Also, the winds werent sufficiently strong enough to 
meet the standards that this service would say amounts to a storm. 
Looking at the reports, I cant be satisfied that a storm was present at the time of the event. 
So, the answer to the first question is no and consequently I have decided it was reasonable 
for GL to decline the claim based on no storm being present.
Should GL deal with the claim under the accidental damage section of the policy?
Mr As policy doesnt cover gradual wear and tear, although he has cover for accidental 
damage. GL defines accidental damage cover as:
Sudden, unintentional and unexpected physical damage caused by an identifiable external 
means.
I have read the report from the loss adjuster and I note that Mr A told them that the damage 
occurred over a period rather than a one-off incident. This, I think indicates that the damage 
wasnt caused suddenly.
I have seen photos of the timbers and the loss adjusters conclusions that the roof timbers 
were rotten. So, I think that it is reasonable for GL to have relied upon its exclusion of wear 
and tear when it declined the claim.
The loss adjuster indicated that the event didnt appear to be caused by a storm. The report 
concluded that the wind speed reached 44 mph five days prior to the loss and there was a 
substantial amount of wet rot which indicated that there was pre-existing damage to the roof. 
I have seen a report from Mr As builder that indicates that the problems were due to 
adverse weather conditions. There is no information in the report as to how the builder had 
arrived at this conclusion and no information as to his expertise in this area. So, I am more 
persuaded by the loss adjusters conclusion that the damage was caused by wear and tear 
and as such I think it is reasonable for GL to have declined the claim.    Finally, Mr A has raised the issue that GL accepted an additional claim following this 
declined claim. From the evidence that I have read, I can see that GL has now also declined 
the second claim as Mr A was claiming for the same area of damage. 
I think GL has dealt with Mr As claim fairly. Im not satisfied that there were storm conditions 
at the time of the event and any damage caused was as a result of gradual wear and tear. In 
the circumstances, Im not minded to direct GL to take any further action.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, for the reasons given.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman