DRN-2698755
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as C have complained that Society of Lloyds unfairly turned down 
their business interruption insurance claim after they were forced to close due to the Covid-
19 pandemic.   
  
Ms B, a director or C, has brought the complaint on Cs behalf.  
 
For ease of reading, reference to Lloyd's will include any actions or comments of the 
underwriters and its agents.
What happened
C hold a business interruption insurance policy with Lloyds. C claimed on their policy after 
they were required to close due to the Governments actions in response to the Covid-
19 pandemic.   
 
Lloyds turned down Cs claim as it said the policy covered business interruption due to 
damage to property and Covid-19 hadnt caused damage as defined in the policy.   
  
Ms B was unhappy with Lloyds response and brought the complaint to our service. She said 
C had expected to be covered for interruption to their business. She believed the extension 
for denial of access should provide cover and that the policy provided cover for closure by a 
local authority.    
   
Our investigator looked into Cs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She didnt think 
the policy covered Cs claim because Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to the property 
insured under the policy. She also didnt think the policy provided cover for closure by a local 
authority.   
   
Ms B didnt think this was fair as she thought the policy should provide cover and she 
referred to the Supreme Court judgment on the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test 
case. She asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact 
on C, but I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.    
   
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out 
in the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if Lloyds has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Cs claim.    
  
I dont think theres cover under Cs policy for closure due to the Government response to 
the national pandemic. However, I would like to explain why parts of the policy that look like 
they might be relevant, dont provide cover.   
 
Damage 
 
The relevant part of the business interruption section of Cs policy says: 
 
We will pay your loss of income and/or the increased cost of working, arising from the 
interruption of, or interference with the business, 
1.1 due to damage to property used by you at your premises or elsewhere as 
specified for business purposes, and  
1.2 by an event insured under Section 1, 2, 6 or Section 11 of your policy. 
 
The policy defines damage as Accidental Loss, destruction or damage. 
 
As this term would require accidental loss, destruction or damage to property used by C at 
their premises, I dont think it provides cover for Cs claim for closure as a result of the 
Governments response to the pandemic. Im not aware that Covid-19 caused any damage to 
Cs property, as defined in the policy. 
 
Denial of access 
 
The policy sets out various extensions to cover. One of these is denial of access to your 
premises which provides cover for loss of income or increased costs of working from: 
 
damage to property within 250 metres of your premises from any cause insured under 
Section 1, 2, 6 or Section 11 which prevents or hinders the use of, or access to, your 
premises. 
 
This extension would require there to have been accidental loss, destruction or damage to 
property within 250 metres of Cs premises, and for that damage to have prevented or 
hindered the use of, or access to, Cs premises. Im not aware that Covid-19 caused damage 
to property within 250 metres of Cs premise s that prevented or hindered use of, or access 
to, Cs premises, and therefore I dont think this extension covers their claim.  
 
Local authority closure 
 
Ms B has also referred to the section of her policy that covers damage to buildings and 
external signs affixed to Cs premises. Within this there is a term that provides cover for:  
 
The necessary and reasonable costs and expenses you incur following damage insured by 
this section in respect ofcompliance with any statutory or local authority requirement. 
  
However, as this term would require damage to Cs buildings or signs, I dont think it 
provides cover for Cs claim for closure as a result of the Governments response to the 
pandemic. As above, Im not aware that Covid-19 caused any damage to Cs buildings or 
signs, as defined in the policy. 
 
Ms B has also referred to the Supreme Court judgment. However, the terms within Cs policy 
werent the same as those considered by the test case. So, Im afraid the outcome of the test 
case doesnt impact on the outcome of her claim. 
 I appreciate this isnt the answer Ms B was hoping for, but for the reasons set out above, I 
dont think I can fairly require Lloyds to pay Cs claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman