DRN-2299554
The complaint
Mr S says a loan was taken out fraudulently in his name. This resulted in adverse 
information being reported on his credit file. Mr S complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as 
Lending Stream, took too long to correct this adverse information after it was established he 
was subject to fraud. And this adversely affected his financial status and his employment 
opportunities.
What happened
After we received the complaint our adjudicator thought the offer that Lending Stream had 
already made to resolve this complaint was reasonable. Mr S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr S complaint should be upheld in part. And I 
thought Lending Stream should pay an increased amount of compensation. A copy of the 
background to the complaint and my provisional findings are below in italics. 
What happened
On 17 April 2017 Lending Stream approved a loan in Mr S name. No repayments have been
made to the loan. The credit file Mr S has provided shows that a default was registered
against the debt on 1 November 2017. Lending Stream then sold the loan to a third party
collection agency (TPCA).
In time the TPCA started court proceedings to reclaim the debt and a County Court
Judgement (CCJ) was issued. An entry was recorded on Mr S credit file and this shows the
CCJ was registered on 6 August 2018.
On 24 August 2018 Mr S contacted Lending Stream and informed it that he didnt take the
loan. There was some correspondence following this in which it was established that the
loan was started fraudulently. Following this, on 6 September 2018, Lending Stream wrote to
Mr S to say that it would repurchase the debt from the TPCA. I understand it started the debt
repurchase process on 30 August 2018. Once this had taken place it said it would take the
necessary action.
There was a long delay from this point until Mr S credit file was finally amended. I wont
detail all of the correspondence here as both parties to the complaint are aware of it. But, as
far as I can see, Lending Stream said it had taken action to correct his credit file on
30 October 2018, 18 March 2019, 18 May 2019 and 2 July 2019. Lending Stream has said,
at various times, that the delays were due to technical issues.
I understand Mr S credit file has now been corrected. He has told us that the CCJ was
removed from his file in August 2019.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. He thought that Lending Stream had taken too long to
make the corrections to the information it reported to the credit reference agencies. Lending
Stream agreed with this and offered £100 compensation for the trouble and upset this had
caused Mr S.
Mr S didnt accept this. He thinks the compensation should be far higher and he has
explained his reasons for this. Ive looked at these reasons below.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr S has told us the adverse credit file data has now been removed from his credit file, so I
dont intend to make any further finding about that. Instead, this decision will focus on what is
fair compensation for what has gone wrong here.
Mr S has outlined the compensation he thinks he should receive due to the delay in Lending
Stream taking steps to correct his credit file. Ive read his letter of 14 May 2020, and the
supporting evidence he supplied with this. A summary of what he thinks is reasonable
compensation is below:
Mr S says he lost the opportunity to purchase two properties due to the CCJ on his file. He 
says these properties would have increased in value, and he needed to rent for a longer 
period. He has valued this loss at £10,000
He was unable to be admitted to the roll of solicitors which affected his career. He has valued 
this loss at £1,000
He has spent over 50 hours to try and rectify this situation. He values this at £4,500
He has paid for an Experian membership of £360 which he says he wouldnt have done 
ordinarily.
He has valued his pain suffering and loss of amenity at £5,000
So he is claiming total compensation of £20,860. Ive thought about this below.
This complaint has been brought against Lending Stream. So, bearing in mind the various
losses Mr S says hes suffered here, I need to be clear what Lending Stream is responsible
for, and perhaps more importantly what it isnt responsible for, in these circumstances.
Its clear that Mr S has been caused some trouble and upset from this situation. But this
chain of events began with his identity being used fraudulently to take a loan. I havent seen
any persuasive evidence that Lending Stream was aware of this when it approved the loan,
or that it at least should have been aware of this. So Ive not seen anything to persuade me
that Lending Stream did anything wrong at this time. It follows then that Lending Stream
wouldnt be automatically responsible for any and all losses or harms that flow from this
fraudulent activity.
Going forward Lending Stream recorded the non-payment of the loan on Mr S credit report
and then sold the unpaid loan to a third party TPCA. Again, I havent seen any persuasive
evidence that Lending Stream had, or ought to have, become aware of the fraudulent nature
of the transaction by this time. So recording the non-payment and then selling the unpaid
debt at this time was, in my view, a reasonable thing to do. This means that Lending Stream
isnt responsible for any loss or harm from this action it took to recover the loan amounts.
It was ultimately the third party, and the courts decision, that resulted in Mr S being subject
to a CCJ and this being recorded on his credit file. Lending Stream had, up until this point,
taken reasonable action to recover the debt and then reduce its liability. It didnt cause, or
exacerbate, this problem at the outset. And because of the third party involvement putting it
right was not likely to be straightforward or quick.
Given all of the above, I dont think its reasonable to say that Mr S should be paid
compensation by Lending stream in respect of the initial adverse credit information or theCCJ being in existence and reported on his credit file.
In my view a large part of the trouble and upset Mr S has experienced was caused by the
person(s) who took the loan out in his name.
Its been established that Lending Stream was informed about the fraud in August 2018. It
relatively quickly established that the loan was started fraudulently, and it did start to take
steps to rectify Mr S credit history. So Lending Stream acted quickly to establish that the
loan was taken fraudulently and start to put things right.
But its from here onwards that Lending Stream didnt act as it shouldve done.
Lending Stream has already agreed that it took too long to make these corrective actions.
And whilst this was no doubt a complicated situation, involving a number of parties, it took
over a year for Mr S credit file to be fully corrected and this is too long. And once Lending
Stream was aware of this, and had repurchased the debt, it was its responsibility to make
these corrections.
Bearing all of this in mind Ive looked at Mr S requests for compensation in turn, to
determine what is a reasonable level of compensation in respect of the delay Lending
Stream caused.
Firstly, Mr S says he lost the opportunity to purchase two properties due to the CCJ
appearing on his credit file. So he would like compensation for the increased value of these
properties that he didnt benefit from, and the rent hes paid when he could have been
contributing towards a mortgage.
Mr S has said he approached a mortgage broker and a lender to enquire about mortgages.
But he hasnt said that the sales process went beyond this initial enquiry stage. And whilst I
accept this may have been due to the CCJ on his credit file, I havent seen anything to
confirm this was the case and the sole or dominant reason. There are an awful lot of moving
parts to any property purchase, and a variety of reasons why mortgages arent approved and
sales dont complete. On the evidence before me, I havent seen enough to persuade me
that Mr S wouldve purchased these properties but for the CCJ on his file.
And even if I had seen enough to persuade me on this finding, I think the problems Mr S had
at this stage would have been likely due to the existence of the CCJ on his file, rather than
the delay or an error made by Lending Stream in removing it.
So whilst I understand Mr S is unhappy that he didnt buy these properties, I dont agree that
Lending Stream should compensate him for this.
Mr S says he was unable to be admitted to the roll of solicitors which affected his career. He
has valued this loss at £1,000. Again its not clear to me if that whats happened here is
specifically due to any delay Lending Stream made in removing this adverse credit
information and CCJ rather than the fact he was a victim of fraud. He seems to have
contacted the Solicitor Regulation Authority very soon after he found out about the fraud. So
it wouldnt have been reasonable for Lending Stream to have removed the CCJ. So from
what I have seen it was the existence of the CCJ itself rather and the fraudulent activity that
Mr S needed to explain to his employer and other related bodies. I dont think this is
predominately down to the actions or inactions of Lending Stream.
Mr S has said that he has spent a considerable amount of time trying to rectify this problem.
And he values his time spent on this as above. Although its reasonable to expect it will take
a consumer some time to make a complaint / correct a problem such as this, its clear this
has taken longer than necessary.
That said, the amount Mr S is asking for equates to £90 per hour, which is more akin to
professional complaint handling rates than simple compensation for time lost. I dont think its
reasonable to award costs on this basis. Especially where they have not been incurred witha third party i.e. Mr S had to reasonably engage a professional representative to deal with
this on his behalf, and so is out of pocket for these fees. Again I accept the time Mr S has
spent dealing with this has caused some distress and, particularly with regards to his time,
inconvenience - and Im making an overall award for this below. But Im not persuaded to
make an award for costs simply on the basis Mr S has outlined.
Mr S has also said that he paid for a membership of a credit reference agency which he
wouldnt ordinarily have done. I agree that if Lending Stream had acted within a reasonable
time frame in removing the adverse information he wouldnt have incurred this cost.
I am aware there are free services available, but its not certain that Mr S was aware of
these. And given the fraudulent activity. and the length of time this went on for, I don't think it
was unreasonable of him to pay for a subscription
So I think Mr S should have the costs he paid for this refunded. I understand these costs
were £360.
Overall, whilst I dont think much of what Mr S wants to be compensated for was reasonable
foreseeable and as a direct result of Lending Streams actions or inactions (most of it was
driven in my view by the fraud itself, as opposed to what Lender Stream then did or didnt
do), I agree that he has been caused some trouble and upset by the firm. So he should be
compensated for this, and I think that sum should be more than Lending Stream offered.
That said, the amounts we usually award in circumstances like this are moderate. With this
in mind, I think £250 is reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience the
delay in his credit report being rectified caused to Mr S.
This brings the total amount of compensation which I am minded to award in this case to
£510.
I know that Mr S wants much more than this, but for all the reasons explained above Im
persuaded this fairly reflects Lending Streams failings and the reasonably foreseeable
impact of that.
Lending Stream, and Mr S, received my provisional decision. Mr S accepted it and had no 
further issues to add. Lending Stream didnt respond to it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S and Lending Stream didnt raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision. 
So Ive reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons.
Putting things right
Lending Stream should pay Mr S £510 comepnsation for the trouble and upset it has 
caused.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr S complaint.
Gain Credit LLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman