DRN-4285939
The complaint
Mr G says after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy with Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited, his premium rose excessively.
What happened
The catalytic converter was stolen from Mr Gs car. He told us that Admiral covered the 
claim, but that at renewal the premium on his car (after some downward negotiation on the 
price) still rose by 93%. Mr G was a named driver on his wifes car, and Mrs Gs premium 
rose by 68%. In response to his complaint, Admiral said the claim Mr G had made was a 
factor when the renewal premiums were calculated - and that its statistics showed Mr G was 
likely to make a future claim, so the risk to Admiral had increased. 
Mr G didnt think the claim should have increased the premium by so much, so he contacted 
us, and one of our investigators reviewed his complaint. After Admiral provided confidential 
pricing information to us, the investigator concluded that it had acted reasonably in raising 
the premium as it had done. She noted that - in addition to the claim - Admiral had also 
taken into account inflation and tough market conditions. She said numerous other factors 
were also applied to the calculations, such as the age of a driver and their postcode risks. 
Mr G didnt accept that the explanation provided was reasonable. He referred to his 
numerous years of driving experience, plus the lack of claims made by him and by Mrs G 
previously. As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I thought some of the information provided to the investigator by Admiral wasnt quite 
clear enough, we asked it for clarification, which it provided. 
Unfortunately, were unable to set out the precise details provided by any insurer about its 
pricing structure, as that information is commercially sensitive. Insurers only supply it to us 
on the basis that we dont share it with consumers. We check that there wasnt a noticeable 
factual error, and that the consumer seems to have been treated fairly, based on the 
insurers approach to similar consumers and situations. 
I can see why Mr G thought the increase in premium was excessive, and why he challenged 
it. It was always possible that Admiral might have made a mistake. But having looked closely 
at all the information it has provided, I dont think theres anything to show that it did. I think it 
dealt with Mr G in the same way it would have dealt with any other consumer in similar 
circumstances to him, based on its pricing structure and the application of it to the premium. 
And although Mr G thinks Mrs G shouldnt have been affected by his claim, its standard 
practice that if a consumer makes a claim, and is the named driver of another car, the 
premium for that car will rise too, as the risk on it has also risen.
Admiral has shown that numerous factors were taken into account when it calculated the 
renewal premium. Mr G knows that the claim he made, plus challenging market conditions, 
were key factors in the increase. But its clear that a combination of other factors had 
changed from the previous year. Some were personal to Mr G, whilst others related to more 
general matters. The combination of all the changes constituted what Admiral considered to 
be a significant increase in the risk it was being asked to cover. 
We cant interfere in the right of an insurer to decide what it regards as high risk, but 
consumers dont have to agree to what they think is an unreasonable increase in premium. 
All insurers are affected by adverse market conditions, and I think many would have taken 
into account the other factors Admiral applied to the premium. But insurers apply different 
ratings to various risks, so its still possible that another insurer may have quoted less than 
Admiral did, for similar cover. Mr G says he didnt look elsewhere, as he awaited the 
outcome of his complaint - and that hed managed to negotiate a considerable reduction in 
the premium anyway. I understand his reasoning, but he may have missed the chance to 
reduce his premium further. 
I appreciate why Mr G feels aggrieved and upset by what happened at renewal, particularly 
given his long and exemplary driving record. But I havent seen anything  to indicate that 
Admiral misapplied its pricing criteria or acted unreasonably in any other way. I know Mr G 
will be disappointed, but I dont think theres a basis on which I can uphold his complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman