DRN-2947804
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain about the way National House-Building Council (NHBC) has 
handled a claim made under their Buildmark policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is extensive and spans several years. Both parties are 
familiar with the circumstances of this case and so I wont outline everything thats happened 
to date, but will provide a brief explanation of the situation. And my decision will focus on the 
main areas of dispute rather than all the issues that have arisen between November 2016, 
when our service was involved in a previous complaint Mr and Mrs V brought to us, and 
September 2019, when Mr and Mrs V contacted us again.
Mr and Mrs V made a claim under their NHBC Buildmark policy after identifying cold spots in 
various parts of their home. Thermal imaging and airtightness tests were undertaken and it 
was found that there were issues with air leakage and lack of insulation. 
NHBC agreed to cover the remedial work. A schedule of works was provided but Mr and 
Mrs V didnt agree with it, as they believed it didnt address all the defects. Mr and Mrs V 
also say the delays in the handling of the claim have caused their family considerable upset. 
NHBC says nothing has been missed from the schedule of works and that its been compiled 
in line with their technical requirements. It also offered Mr and Mrs V compensation for the 
delays. Mr and Mrs V werent happy with NHBCs response, so they referred their complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and didnt think NHBC had acted unreasonably. She 
said it had made fair offers to put things right for Mr and Mrs V and that the cash settlement 
was in line with the schedule of works required to meet technical requirements. She also 
thought the amount of compensation NHBC had offered for trouble and upset was in line 
with what wed expect.
Mr and Mrs V disagreed with our investigators opinion. They believe the cash settlement 
offered by NHBC to cover the cost of remedial works is inadequate. Theyve said the home 
was not built in accordance with the relevant building standards and that all the works 
highlighted by their surveyors report should be carried out under the policy. NHBC disagree 
with this, saying its obligation is to ensure building work meets technical requirements. So 
the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I wont be asking NHBC to do anything further. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs V obtained an independent report by an expert surveyor. Ive looked carefully at 
this report and its recommendations and also at the resolution report and schedule of works 
provided by NHBC.
The independent surveyors report highlights some poor construction and areas of 
inadequate insulation. However, the suggested schedule of works compiled by the surveyor 
is extensive and it is immediately apparent that it includes work that NHBC would not be 
responsible for under the policy. The policy requires NHBC to ensure the schedule of works 
is compliant with NHBCs technical requirements. This does not mean that every defect 
within the property would need to be rectified. I note Mr and Mrs V suggest the defects are 
not restricted to certain areas. However Ive seen no evidence to confirm that insulation 
throughout the property is defective.
The approach from the independent surveyor however is comprehensive and this isnt 
unusual, but it does go beyond the work NHBC would be responsible for. For example, 
NHBC would not be responsible for contingency items  and is only responsible for putting 
right issues which, as stated in the policy, breach any mandatory NHBC Requirement and 
which have resulted in physical Damage caused by a Defect as defined in the policy and 
within the specified parts of the home.
The policy also says NHBC is only liable for the cost it would have to pay if it had arranged 
to get the work done. Im satisfied from looking at the schedule of works provided by NHBC 
that it has offered a reasonable amount to enable Mr and Mrs V to instruct their own 
contractors to put things right  as this is what it wouldve cost NHBC to do the work 
required. Mr and Mrs V say the costings provided by NHBC will be out of date, as prices will 
have increased since the offer was made. But I havent seen any evidence of this. So I still 
think the offer put forward by NHBC is reasonable.
Regarding the cavity wall insulation, Mr and Mrs V say this was removed from the schedule 
of works without good reason as their surveyor recommended it should be replaced. 
However, I can see from the correspondence that NHBC discussed this with the builder and 
the surveyor, reaching the conclusion that the insulation was suitable and did not need to be 
replaced. Bricks were removed in the areas where cold spots were identified, and following 
the investigation, NHBC contacted the builder for confirmation of which insulation had been 
installed. It was confirmed that the insulation to the cavity was 100mm Dritherm 32 batts 
insulation (with 0.032 thermal conductivity) which is a suitable specification for the property. 
NHBC also says one of the benefits of that insulation is that it is water repellent, which I 
hope allays Mr and Mrs Vs concerns.
Im also satisfied that NHBC has acted fairly in responding to the issue with the patio doors. 
It believes the doors can be adjusted further, but has also said that if this doesnt resolve the 
issue of gaps when Mr and Mrs V arrange for the remedial work to be done, NHBC will 
consider alternative options if Mr and Mrs V are able to demonstrate that the problem 
remains. While I can see the recommendation was for replacement of the doors, I think 
NHBCs offer is fair in the circumstances and so at this stage I wont be asking NHBC to pay 
any more in relation to the patio doors. But Mr and Mrs V can go back to NHBC if its 
suggested remedial work does not rectify the issue. 
Mr and Mrs V have said they may be able to get further quotes, but that it has been difficult 
to obtain these as many builders do not appear to want to do this work. In the absence of 
these, it is difficult for me to say NHBCs offer isnt reasonable. However, NHBC has 
suggested that Mr and Mrs V should contact NHBC with details of the companies which are 
unwilling to do the work, such as glazing companies which are unwilling to adjust the doors 
further. NHBC says its claims team can then contact those companies to discuss their 
findings from those visits and obtain clarification on why the patio doors cannot be adjusted further, so that this can be considered and alternative solutions can be agreed. I think this is 
a fair and reasonable offer in the circumstances. And as NHBC says it will still consider 
quotes from three independent contractors who are willing to undertake the work specified in 
NHBCs schedule, I think its acting reasonably to try to put things right for Mr and Mrs V. If 
contractors are unwilling to do the work, Mr and Mrs V should let NHBC know as soon as 
possible with further details, so that this can be followed up and clarification can be sought.
There is no doubt that delays have occurred along the way, particularly as the claim has 
been ongoing for several years. NHBC has offered Mr and Mrs V £400 compensation for the 
delays in its handling of the claim. Having looked at the timeline of events, I can see that not 
all of the delays are attributable to NHBC. There is always going to be some level of 
inconvenience in claims like these, and some delays were inevitable. Some delays were 
understandably outside Mr and Mrs Vs control too, such as personal circumstances theyve 
told us about. But for the delays caused by NHBC, I think £400 is a reasonable level of 
compensation for the inconvenience Mr and Mrs V experienced.
I know the issues relating to this complaint have caused Mr and Mrs V considerable upset 
over the years. I hope it reassures them that an independent person has now considered 
everything carefully and taken their concerns seriously. Although I appreciate that they will 
be disappointed with my decision, Im satisfied that NHBCs existing offer to put things right 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and for the reasons Ive explained above. And 
so Im afraid I wont be making any further award in this case.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs V, but my final decision is that I do not uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman