DRN-3370650
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as F has complained that Arthur J. Gallagher Insurance Brokers
Limited (AJG) mis-sold its business protection insurance policy.
Mr S, a director of F, has brought the complaint on Fs behalf.
What happened
F bought a business protection insurance policy with an insurer that Ill refer to as R through
AJG. The policy renewed in December 2019. However, in January 2020, F asked AJG to 
look for an alternative policy as it had lost confidence in R following a claim.
After an initial delay, AJG responded to F on 29 January with details of the quotes they had
been given. They said two insurers had declined to offer quotes, one hadnt replied, another
had given an indication of a quote for £15,000 but would require more information, and one
insurer, which Ill refer to as L, had quoted around £20,000. AJG said Fs current policy with
R cost around £9,000 and they couldnt get a quote anywhere near this. F said it would have
no option but to stay with R. AJG replied a few days later to say theyd received a quote from
an insurer, who Ill refer to as A, for around £15,000, and they were also trying to obtain a
quote from the insurer who covered Fs other business, who Ill refer to as Q.
AJG ultimately recommended a policy with A. F said it was keen to be insured by Q but, as
Q didnt provide a quote, F accepted AJGs recommendation and took out the policy with A.
After agreeing to take out the policy, F queried whether the policy provided cover for Covid-
19. AJG said the policy didnt, but neither did any other policy.
Later, F looked to claim on its policy, under an extension for non-damage denial of access,
after its business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the 
pandemic. However, the insurer turned down the claim as they said F hadnt taken out this
extension and the policy didnt provide cover for its claim.
F complained to AJG. It said it would have wanted cover for non-damage denial of access
and AJG should have pointed out that the cover under the policy with A wasnt exactly the
same as the one it held with R, which included denial of access.
AJG said F hadnt asked for cover for non-damage denial of access and, at the time the
policy was sold, it wasnt usual for this cover to be a requirement for Fs type of business.
AJG said it had provided F with the relevant information when providing a quote and couldnt
be expected to go through all differences line by line.
Unhappy with AJGs response, F brought its complaint to our service. F said it had bought
the policy with A on the understanding that the quote from Q wasnt competitive and As 
policy provided exactly the same level of cover as the policy it held with R. F said AJG hadnt
pointed out the differences in the terms between the policies.
In summary, F complained that:
It was quoted different prices but was never informed that the cover under each
            policy was different.
It wasnt informed that the extension for denial of access, which was part of the policy
            held with R, wasnt covered under the policy with A.
It was informed that no policy would cover Covid-19, yet its other policy with Q did
            provide cover.
It wasnt provided with the full policy wording from A.
AJG failed to ensure that the policy met Fs needs.
While we were looking into things, F told us there were typos in its initial complaint form and
instead of requiring a like for like policy to the one it held with R, it should have said it wanted
a like for like policy with the one it held with Q.
AJG said they hadnt been able to provide a quote from Q due to Fs outstanding claim with
R. They said theyd received a quote from L but this was more expensive. As such theyd
recommended the policy with A.
Our investigator looked into Fs complaint but didnt find that AJG needed to do anything 
further. She didnt think AJG had done enough to establish Fs needs with regard to cover for
diseases but, when looking at the consequences, she didnt think this had caused F any
loss.
F disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. It reiterated that its complaint should
have said that it required a policy the same as its policy with Q. It also said that 
consideration should be given to which insurers AJG approached at the time of the renewal
in December 2019 and it added that the case of Corbin & King v AXA Insurance UK PLC
might mean that its claim would have been successful if the extension had been added to
the policy.
Our investigator let F know that I didnt think the outcome of Corbin & King v AXA Insurance
UK PLC would make a difference to the complaint because I thought AJG had acted 
reasonably in not recommending that F add the extension for non-damage denial of access
to its policy given its type of business. F disagreed and said that, even without knowledge of
Covid-19 at the time of taking out the policy, AJG should have recommended the extension
as its specifically mentioned as being suitable for Fs type of business in its marketing 
literature. AJG said the literature was aimed at a wide market and it didnt think the cover
was particularly relevant to Fs business at the time they sold the policy.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 25 February 2022 where I explained why 
I didnt think AJG needed to do anything further. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
F has made a number of detailed points. I dont intend to address them all in this decision
and will instead focus on what I consider to be the central issues to this complaint. I also
dont intend to comment on the renewal of the policy in December 2019 as I dont think its
relevant to the crux of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the impact of Covid-19 and the Governments response to the 
pandemic on Fs business. However, Im not going to require AJG to do anything further. Ill
explain why.
Did AJG do what they should have done at the saleThe Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook says that when selling a policy, a firm
should specify its customers demands and needs and [propose] a policy thats consistent 
with them. As this was an advised sale, AJG also needed to take reasonable care to ensure 
the suitability of its advice, as well as having a general duty to provide information thats 
clear, fair and not misleading.
I understand that AJGs recommendation was based on F requiring a combined commercial
package to the level of cover specified. AJG appears to have looked for a new policy based
on the information obtained previously rather than carrying out a new fact find.
I do think that, given that Covid-19 was known about at the time and other countries were
beginning to take action, it would have been prudent for AJG to have discussed this aspect
of cover with F so it could make a decision on which policy it wanted to take out. However,
its clear from AJGs email in February that they didnt think any policy provided cover for
Covid-19 and this was based on their discussions with insurers. With the benefit of hindsight,
we now know that some policies did provide cover but, given the circumstances and 
uncertainty at the time of the sale, I dont think it was unreasonable for AJG to indicate that
cover wouldnt be available based on the information they had at that time.
F said AJG should have advised it that there were polices which covered notifiable diseases
and sourced one that provided that cover. However, Covid-19 wasnt added to the 
Governments list of notifiable disease in England until 5 March and, even when claims 
began later in March 2020, many insurers argued that policies with cover for notifiable 
diseases didnt provide cover. So I dont think I can reasonably expect AJG to have known in
February 2020 that F would have required such cover.
Should AJG have recommended F add the extension for non-damage denial of access to
the policy
F has referred to the case of Corbin & King v AXA Insurance UK PLC as it thinks the 
outcome might affect its complaint. A judgment hasnt yet been handed down in this case but
under current case law this extension wouldnt provide cover for Fs claim.
However, I dont think the outcome of Corbin & King v AXA Insurance UK PLC will make a
difference to Fs complaint because I dont think AJG did anything wrong in not 
recommending the extension for non-damage denial of access to Fs policy. I say that 
because I havent seen anything from the time of the sale to indicate that this was something
that F particularly wanted, and I also dont think I can reasonably expect AJG to have known
in February 2020 that this extension might later become relevant in the event of a closure
due to Covid-19 or the Governments response to the pandemic.
Ive considered Fs point that it would have wanted cover for this due to other risks that might
occur, and that AJGs marketing material specifically refers to non-damage loss of attraction
as cover aimed at Fs type of business. However, loss of attraction is a different area of
cover to denial of access and Im persuaded by what AJG has said that at the time of the
renewal this wasnt an area of cover that they thought F particularly needed.
Ive also noted that, while Fs policy with R did have cover for non-damage denial of access,
this excluded cover for losses caused by diseases. So if F had obtained cover which was
equivalent to that of R, which is what it previously told us it had wanted, this extension 
wouldnt have had cover in the context of Covid-19 and the Governments related actions.
Moreover, I can see that the renewal documents clearly set out that non-damage denial of
access wasnt included in the quote so I think F should reasonably have been aware that this
wasnt included and had an opportunity to include it if it wanted.Should AJG have recommended a policy that provided the same cover as the policy with R,
Q or L
F initially said to us that AJG should have found a policy which provided cover on the same
basis as the policy it held with R. Different insurance policies provide slightly different cover
and I wouldnt expect AJG to have gone through each policy to explain every difference, as
long as the policy they recommended was consistent with Fs demands and needs and that
they also highlighted anything significant. Im satisfied that AJG did this when selling F this
policy.
F said there were typos in its complaint to us and it should have said it required a policy that
was the same as the one it held with Q. However, this may be with the benefit of hindsight. I
say that because in an email to AJG in May 2020, F said:
Our clear instructions were that we needed a policy to replace the R policy to
include all covers which already existed.
I also note that F only informed us of the typo following the Supreme Court judgment
and Q agreeing to pay Fs claim relating to other parts of its business.
Its clear from calls and emails between F and AJG that F would have preferred a 
competitive quote from Q, but I havent seen anything to persuade me that AJG said it
would provide a policy with exactly the same cover as Q. I also cant reasonably expect
AJG to have gone through each policy line by line to check each element of cover was
exactly the same as Fs existing policy with Q.
In any event, AJG have also provided emails to show that they tried to obtain a quote from Q 
but werent successful. I understand F finds AJGs comments about Qs quotation 
contradictory, but Im satisfied that AJG did enough to source a quote from Q and, as they 
didnt receive one, they were unable to present Q as an option.
Ive noted Fs point that it thinks AJG should have recommended the policy with L, but this 
policy also wouldnt have provided cover for Fs claim, so I dont think not recommending the 
policy caused F any loss.
Providing the policy documents for A
Its disappointing that AJG didnt provide F with the policy documents so it could check the 
policy it had been sold. However, Im not persuaded that F would have done anything 
differently if it had received the full policy document. I say that because the Policy Schedule 
shows that non-damage denial of access wasnt included, and F didnt ask for any changes 
to be made. I also havent seen anything from the time to persuade me that F wanted any 
additional cover that wasnt included in the policy.
In summary, I think AJG could have done more when establishing Fs needs given the 
emerging concern around Covid-19 at the time of the renewal. However, Im not persuaded 
that they acted negligently or mis-sold Fs policy.
I recognise this isnt the outcome F was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require AJG to do anything further.
AJG didnt provide any further comments. F didnt agree and provided a detailed response. 
F reiterated that on 18 February 2020 AJG emailed to advise that money cover hadnt been 
added to the policy. F said that on 24 February, AJG let F know that the policy was live and documents would follow and on 26 February they emailed the documents to F. F said on the 
same date it called AJG to ask about cover for Covid-19 and on 27 February AJG advised 
that claims for Covid-19 wouldnt be covered. F said this clearly indicated that it wanted 
cover for interruption to its business due to Covid-19. 
F also provided comments on my findings. In summary it said:
AJG appeared to have looked for a policy based on information previously obtained 
rather than carrying out a new fact find.
Fs policies with both R and Q both had cover for non-damage denial of access 
based on the previous fact finds. If this wasnt cover F needed, why had it been 
added to previous policies. 
AJG failed in its duty to propose a policy that was consistent with Fs demands and 
needs.
F made AJG aware of its requirement for cover for Covid-19 and, as such, AJG 
should have recommended cover for non-damage denial of access.
AJG provided misleading information when saying the policy wouldnt provide cover 
for losses caused by Covid-19.
F provided extracts from the judgment in Corbin & King v AXA Insurance UK PLC to 
support its view that AJG should have recommended cover for non-damage denial of 
access. F said that the judgment means its claim would have been paid if the cover 
had been added to the policy and also supports that a reasonable broker would 
have raised this cover with a policyholder. 
In response to Fs comments AJG said that the policy F held with R didnt include cover for 
non-damage denial of access.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered Fs detailed response to my provisional decision; however, Im not 
persuaded to depart from my provisional findings. 
F provided two different policy documents to demonstrate the cover it previously held with R. 
One of these policies includes cover for non-damage denial of access, the other doesnt. 
AJG said that the policies F held previously with R didnt include cover for non-damage 
denial of access. 
Its now unclear whether the policy F held with R included cover for non-damage denial of 
access or not, but Im not going to make a finding on that because I dont think it matters to 
the outcome of my decision. Thats because even if the policy F held with R did include the 
extension for non-damage denial of access, I dont think AJG did anything wrong in not 
including it in the policy with A.
I think that AJG let F know that money cover hadnt been included because that was a 
separate head of cover which had been in Fs previous policy with R but wasnt originally 
included in the policy with A. I wouldnt expect AJG to have gone through the policies with R, 
Q and A to check they provided exactly the same cover terms within each head of cover.I accept that AJG didnt carry out a new fact find and instead based their recommendation on 
the information held previously. However, I havent seen anything in Fs previous demands 
and needs that indicated that non-damage denial of access was something it particularly 
wanted. Different policies provide different cover and I havent seen anything to indicate that  
F chose its policies specifically because it wanted non-damage denial of access cover. 
I do think F would have wanted cover for Covid-19 if it had been available, and this could 
have been discussed more explicitly in advance of the sale between AJG and F. However, 
after the sale AJG had been informed that the policy wouldnt provide cover for Covid-19 and 
they let F know this. While its now apparent that some policies available on the market did 
provide cover, I dont think it was unreasonable for AJG to pass on information from insurers 
that indicated that cover wouldnt be available for losses caused by Covid-19 and I dont 
think F provided misleading information given the circumstances at the time. 
F has referred to the judgment in Corbin & King v AXA Insurance UK PLC. Ive noted Fs 
points, but the Courts comments dont persuade me that a broker should have known that 
this term might provide cover in February 2019, given that the insurer didnt think it would 
provide cover. Also, as I dont think AJG did anything wrong in not recommending non-
damage denial of access cover, the judgment doesnt make a difference to the outcome of 
Fs complaint. 
I recognise that this isnt the outcome F was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I cant fairly conclude that AJG mis-sold Fs policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman