DRN-2177820
The complaint
Mr F complains as a director of T, a limited company, that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) 
unfairly declined a claim on Ts legal expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to UKI, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
T leased a property to a third party. During the course of the tenancy, the third party made 
some alterations to the drainage under the property without permission. T says this has 
caused the drains to fail. T made a claim on the policy to cover the legal costs of taking 
action against the third party for the damage. 
UKI declined the claim. It said the dispute arose before the policy had started, and cover is 
limited to disputes that started within the policy period. 
Mr F disagrees. He acknowledges that there was a dispute with the third party before his 
policy started. But he says the issue hes claiming for is a new and separate matter that 
didnt start until after his policy was in place. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said it was reasonable for UKI to determine 
that the dispute dated back to before the policy started. This is because there was 
correspondence discussing the problems with the drains two months before the policy was 
taken out. She said there wasnt enough information to show these were separate and 
unrelated issues. 
Mr F didnt accept our investigators findings. He said the correspondence referred to relates 
to a different building, and a drainage survey wasnt carried out on the property until six 
months after his insurance policy started. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like most legal expenses insurance policies, Ts policy will provide cover for certain legal 
disputes on the condition that the date of occurrence of the insured incident is during the 
period of insurance. The policy defines the date of occurrence as the date of the event that 
leads to a claim. If there is more than one event arising at different times from the same 
originating cause, the Date of Occurrence is the date of the first of these events.
Ts policy started in December 2018. So in order for T to be covered, Mr F needs to show 
that the dispute over the drainage started after this date. 
Ive been provided with a copy of the claim file which includes documents submitted by Ts 
solicitor. UKI and our investigator both referred to a letter sent in October 2018 from Ts 
solicitor to the third partys representative. This letter refers to the damage to the drainage 
but Mr F says this relates to another property. 
The letter says your client undertook significant buildings and development works at the 
site. Such works have had a detrimental impact upon the site as well as upon [S], another 
property owned by our client which is situated next door to the site. 
I can see from the policy document that the insured property is S. And therefore whilst I 
agree that this correspondence is regarding another property, the letter clearly refers to the 
insured premises as being affected. 
Based on this, Im satisfied Mr F was aware the third party had carried out works to the 
drainage at the property without his permission. And whilst he may not have had a survey 
carried out on the drainage until mid-2019 to assess the extent of the damage, he was 
aware of the event that led to his claim. T had instructed solicitors and, following the letter 
referred to above, they sent a further letter in November 2018 threatening legal action. Later 
correspondence refers to the fact the adjoining property would be affected. Im satisfied the 
dispute affected both properties. So I dont think there were two separate disputes; they are 
directly related, and T was aware of the problem before the policy started. 
From everything Ive seen, I think UKIs decision to decline the claim was in line with the 
policy terms and was reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman