DRN-4107472
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly declined part of a claim it made for 
damage caused by subsidence. 
What happened
Ageas accepted a claim for damage cause by subsidence a number of years ago. Mr and 
Mrs K have raised several complaints about the way Ageas has handled matters over the 
years. Many of which cant be reviewed by this service as the time for bringing those 
complaints has passed.
In January 2022, Mr and Mrs K made a further complaint, which is being considered here. 
The basis of this complaint was that Ageas had refused to cover damage to the main roof of 
the property, and the roof of an orangery, as part of the claim. 
After receiving the complaint and a report provided by Mr and Mrs K, Ageas did agree to 
cover the damage to the main roof. It offered £100 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused. But it maintained the damage to the roof of the orangery wasnt caused by 
subsidence. So the complaint was brought to this service.
Our investigator received a further report from Mr and Mrs K in February 2023, which was 
shared with Ageas. On the basis of that report, our investigator recommended Ageas cover 
the damage to the roof of the orangery as damage caused by subsidence. He also said the 
compensation should be increased to £300 given the delay in accepting these parts of the 
claim. And that Mr and Mrs K should be reimbursed for the further expert report theyd 
provided.
Mr and Mrs K accepted the outcome, but Ageas didnt. It said its experts opinion was that 
the leaking of the orangery roof is due to inherent construction and deterioration, not 
subsidence. It also said it didnt consider it necessary to replace the entire roof (if it were to 
accept the damage was caused by subsidence) as localised repairs could resolve the 
issues. 
As Ageas didnt accept the outcome, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case there are two conflicting reports about the cause of damage. My role is to decide 
which report I find the most persuasive. Having done so, Im more persuaded by the report 
provided by Mr and Mrs K, so Ageas should cover the damage to the orangery roof as part 
of the subsidence claim. Ive explained why below.
Ageas report is from its conservatory expert. The report focuses on an aluminium gutter, 
which it says is leaking, and it says some cappings on the roof have slipped. It says these 
are not related to subsidence but are deterioration of the materials. 
The report goes on to say Mr and Mrs K pointed to a number of cracks where the timber 
frames meet the window boards and door frames. It considers this to be normal for the 
materials used. As far as Im aware there arent any photographs attached to this report to 
support the conclusions. And theres no comment on the fact that the majority of the rest of 
the front property (which includes part of the orangery) has suffered from subsidence. 
Mr and Mrs Ks report was carried out by a structural engineer who had visited the property 
as part of the claim. The engineer reviewed the photographs, provided by Mr and Mrs K, of 
repairs carried out to the bathroom as part of the claim. The external bathroom wall adjoins 
the orangery. The engineers view was that there must have been quite significant 
movement to the external bathroom wall. And as the roof of the orangery is attached to that 
wall, it must have moved as well. And the engineers view was that the photographs show 
distortion in the roof of the orangery where it meets the main house, and this is where the 
leak has occurred. 
Having considered both reports, I think its more likely that the subsidence has caused 
movement which has impacted the roof of the orangery, allowing water to get into the 
property. Its accepted there has been subsidence, and a number of rooms have been 
affected, as has the main roof of the property. And Im persuaded that the proximity of the 
orangery to the other areas of damage means its the more likely cause. I also note that 
Ageas did carry out internal repairs on cracks within the orangery as part of the claim. 
Although I understand it says it did so as a gesture of goodwill. In any event, it seems there 
was some damage to the internal walls of the orangery, which I think further supports its 
more likely that subsidence caused the roof damage. 
Ageas has argued Mr and Mrs Ks report is based on photographs alone, rather than a site 
visit. But I dont think this means it cant be relied on. It seems many internal repairs had 
already been carried out by the time of the report, so a site visit at that stage wouldnt have 
shown the damage shown in the photographs. 
So whilst I accept the damage to the orangery could have been caused due to deterioration, 
on balance, I think its most likely been caused by subsidence. 
So to resolve matters, Ageas needs to cover the damage to the roof as part of the 
subsidence claim. Ageas has said it doesnt think the whole roof needs to be replaced. As 
part of dealing with the claim, Ageas needs to provide a lasting and effective repair. If it can 
do so without replacing the roof, that would be reasonable under the policy. But if a repair 
isnt possible, then wed expect it to pay for the replacement for the roof. 
Ageas also needs to pay a total of £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr and Mrs K in delaying the repairs to the orangery roof. I understand the roof 
continues to leak during bad weather which would have been avoided had Ageas accepted 
this part of the claim earlier. Ageas also needs to reimburse Mr and Mrs K for its expert 
reported dated February 2023. It needs to add 8% simple interest from the date the report 
was paid (to be provided by Mr and Mrs K) to the date of settlement. 
Im aware Mr and Mrs K have raised further complaints with Ageas in relation to this claim. I 
cant consider these as part of this complaint, but in the interests of both parties, these 
issues should be resolved as soon as possible. But if Mr and Mrs K remain unhappy, we can 
consider any further complaints.My final decision
My final decision is that Ageas Insurance Limited needs to repair damage caused by 
subsidence to the orangery roof. 
It also needs to pay £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused. And it must reimburse 
Mr and Mrs K what they paid for the February 2023 report, plus 8% simple interest from the 
date the report was paid for, until the date of settlement.
If Ageas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs K how much its taken off. It should 
also give them a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman