DRN-3199672
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim 
that they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) concerning a 
solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs S are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around August 2017 a representative of a company Ill call P contacted Mr and Mrs S 
to talk about buying a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their home. After a 
representative of P visited them, Mr and Mrs S decided to buy the system and finance it 
through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In 1 October 2019 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr and Mrs Ss behalf under 
section 75 of the Act. The CMC said that, after seeing an online advert for solar panels, Mr 
and Mrs S approached P for a quote. The CMC said P made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true. And it said it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs S to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) would provide enough income to cover the finance agreement 
repayments costs.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr and Mrs S or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be 
upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs S and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
the quote explains that the payback period was 13 years, so supports its assertion 
that Mr and Mrs S were told the system would be self-funding over the loan term; and
the quote only details the cash price and not the total cost with interest; and
Mr and Mrs S were told verbally that the system would be self-funding, which is 
different to the information contained in the quote; and
the quote sets out the estimated profit from the scheme as being £19,929.97; and
Mr and Mrs S werent provided with a copy of the quote. They dont have a copy of 
the quote, which is sufficient to cast doubt as to whether it was provided to them.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act. Section 75 provides 
protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr and Mrs S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This allows Mr and Mrs S to claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P, the supplier, 
in the same way they could have claimed against P. So Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs S and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive looked at these in detail and have considered whether they support what Mr and Mrs S 
say about the representations which P made.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process. Im aware that the CMC continues to question 
this. Ive carefully considered the points the CMCs made, along with those made by 
Shawbrook on Ps behalf. Having done so, I remain satisfied that the quote document did 
form a central part of the sales process with P when Mr and Mrs S agreed to enter into the 
contract for the system. So its relevant, alongside Mr and Mrs Ss recollection of the sale, 
when considering whether there were any untrue statements of fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Self-funded
Mr and Mrs S say they were told that their monthly loan repayments would be covered, or 
self-funded by the benefits of the system. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P 
and whether this supports what Mr and Mrs S have said.The system analysis section of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs S could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs S could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £159.85.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs S could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity saving is shown as £216.01. Taking into account 
the optional extras which Mr and Mrs S chose, the combined income and savings in year 
one is shown as £584.66. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 
60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months, as this is 
the length of the loan that Mr and Mrs S entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the 
loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £115.61. For each year of the 15-year loan it 
shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 
12 months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £115.61, to give an average 
difference between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in 
each year.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs S could expect to receive from the 
system by way of FIT payments and the monthly loan repayments that would be due. It also 
clearly shows that the overall income they could expect to receive by way of FIT income and 
any additional savings would not be immediately enough to cover the monthly loan 
repayments. Im satisfied that Ps representative would have taken Mr and Mrs S through the 
quote. So Im not satisfied that they were told that the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered by the benefits over the loan term.
Ive considered the table above, which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
Im of the view that the table makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the 
start. I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and monthly loan repayments, and that the expected income wouldnt be enough to cover 
the monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mr and Mrs S were told by P that the system would be self-funding 
in the longer term. 
The Estimated performance over 25 years section of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 25 years. This shows that by year 20 the overall benefits that Mr and 
Mrs S could expect to receive would exceed the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement. 
As Ive said above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs S that the system would pay for itself 
by year 20, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and if 
I were satisfied that it induced Mr and Mrs S to enter into the contract, and they 
subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Cost of the system
The CMC says that the cost of the system was documented as £10,920.00. It says this 
made it impossible for Mr and Mrs S to look at the documentation and work out the cost in 
relation to the benefits.
Im satisfied that the quote provided to Mr and Mrs S made it clear that the cost of the 
system was £10,920.00. This is supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the 
cash price of the system was £10,920. The total amount of credit is shown as £10,820.00, 
after an advance payment of £100. But it goes on to show that the total amount payable 
would be £20,438.20.
The quote is also clear that thered be a monthly loan repayment due, as set out in the table 
below. So Im satisfied that the quote and the credit agreement made it clear that although 
the cash price of the system was £10,920.00, it would cost Mr and Mrs S more than that as 
they had decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan. The quote also provides a 
comparison between the costs and benefits of the system in the repayments section as 
detailed above.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr and Mrs S. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the 
system is expected to produce 2,427.52 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr and Mrs Ss FIT statements and can see that their system, on average, 
has generated 2,660.29 kWh. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale, 
so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
Im satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. Ive looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and can see that the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of 
sale. I think this explains why Mr and Mrs S havent been receiving the financial returns they 
may have been expecting from the solar panels. Where actual energy prices have been 
lower than the modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by 
the panels have been correspondingly lower.
As Ive explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available from 
the ONS covering 2006 and 2015. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P 
to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs S 
could have expected to receive from the system. So, while I appreciate that the returns may 
not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due 
to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time of sale.
CMCs further points
The CMC has explained that pages 2 and 9 of the quote show a payback time of 13 years 
and an estimated profit from the scheme of £19,929.97. It believes that this backs up what 
Mr and Mrs say they were told at the point of sale. And the CMC says that this amounts to a 
misrepresentation. 
Ive looked at the quote and can see that it explains that the estimated payback time is 
based on the cash purchase. The payback time will fluctuate dependent on any finance 
taken against the system. So I think its clear that Mr and Mrs S payback time would be 
longer, as they chose to buy the system with an interest-bearing loan. It also explains clearly 
that the estimated profit from the scheme does not include the finance charge. 
I agree that it would have been clearer if P had included the finance cost when setting out 
the payback time and profit from the scheme. But it did clearly explain that those figures 
were based on cash purchase. So I cant conclude that those were untrue statements of fact.
The CMC says the quote only shows the cash price of the system, so it wasnt possible for 
Mr and Mrs S to work out that it would take around 20 years for them to break even. The 
loan agreement and quote were both signed and dated by Mr and Mrs S on 22 August 2017 
So Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs S would have been able to see the documents side by side. 
The loan agreement shows the total price and Im satisfied that it would have been easy to 
compare this against the accumulated benefits detailed in the Estimated performance over 
25 years table in the quote.Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs S 
to enter into the contract for the system, and Ive found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman