DRN-3344793
The complaint
Miss J and Mr W complain that Target Servicing Limited delayed in processing a deed of 
postponement in respect of their help to buy loan. This meant there was a delay in 
processing a re-mortgage application.
What happened
Miss J and Mr W bought their property in 2018. They took out a mortgage, and also took a 
help to buy loan to part-fund their deposit.
Help to buy loans are government-funded shared equity loans. The lender is a government 
agency, and the scheme is administered by Target.
In 2020, as they came to the end of their initial two year fixed rate, Miss J and Mr W decided 
to move their mortgage to another lender.
Because the help to buy loan is secured over their property by way of a second charge, their 
new mortgage lender needed Target to agree to a deed of postponement  so that when the 
old lender removed its charge, the new lender could take first charge ahead of the help to 
buy loan.
Target charged Miss J and Mr W a £115 fee for the application. Unfortunately there were 
delays in completing it, and although the application was first made in March 2020, it didnt 
go through until September 2020.
Miss J and Mr W complained. Target accepted that there had been delays which went 
beyond its acceptable service levels. So this complaint is mainly about what Target now 
needs to do to put matters right.
Our investigator said it should pay Miss J and Mr W three months interest at the difference 
between their old lenders SVR and their new lenders fixed rate, and pay £150 
compensation for their distress and inconvenience. Target didnt agree with that  it said that 
because Miss J and Mr W had taken a payment deferral, it cant be said they made a loss on 
payments they didnt make.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision setting out my thinking on the case. I said:
Miss J and Mr W applied to their new lender, and received a mortgage offer on 11 March 
2020. They then applied to Target. Their old mortgage fixed rate ended, and they reverted to 
their lenders standard variable rate (SVR) on 1 April 2020.
Unfortunately, this was around the time the coronavirus pandemic hit, and the country 
entered the first period of lockdown. Miss J continued to work, but Mr W was furloughed by 
his employer.
Miss J and Mr W struggled to make the higher mortgage payments on their reduced income, 
and so they took a covid payment deferral from June 2020.
The deed of postponement was finally completed and sent to Miss J and Mr Ws solicitors in 
August 2020, and Miss J and Mr W took their new mortgage with their new lender on 16 
September 2020. Target has accepted that it was at fault, because it delayed in getting the 
lenders approval on the deed and in sending it on to the solicitors. When Miss J and Mr W 
complained, it upheld their complaint  but did not offer any compensation for either their 
financial or non-financial losses.
Im satisfied based on the evidence Ive seen that there was delay in this case. Ive taken 
into account the circumstances of the time, and the impact of the pandemic on services  
and their customers  throughout the country. But Ive also noted that Target hasnt 
suggested it was facing any particular difficulties as a result of these unprecedented 
circumstances. Rather, it seems to have been a simple administrative error.
Targets normal timescale for returning a deed of postponement is four to six weeks. It 
seems Miss J and Mr Ws new lender was not willing to accept Targets standard form deed 
of postponement, but required Target to use the lenders own form. Miss J and Mr Ws 
solicitors sent this to Target on 19 May 2020.
It's therefore reasonable to expect that, in accordance with its usual timescales, Target 
should have sent the deed back to the solicitors at the end of June. But it didnt in fact send it 
until 11 August 2020. This is a delay of six weeks.
Im therefore satisfied that its reasonable to hold Target responsible for a six week delay. 
But I dont think its fair to hold Target responsible for the entire period Miss J and Mr W 
spent on the SVR, between 1 April and 16 September.
I say that because they would always have spent some time on the SVR, even if Target had 
processed the deed within normal timescales.
The mortgage offer was issued on 11 March, but the correct deed wasnt sent to Target by 
Miss J and Mr Ws solicitors until 19 May. Target is not responsible for this period  Im not 
sure whether there was delay by the solicitors, or whether Miss J and Mr W simply left it too 
late to apply for their mortgage before their rate ended on 1 April. But I cant hold Target 
responsible for any delay  whatever the cause  before it received the form.
And although Target sent the deed to the solicitors on 11 August, the mortgage didnt 
complete until 16 September. Again, Target is not responsible for this period.
All I can fairly hold Target responsible for is the additional six weeks, outside its usual 
timescales, it took to process the deed. The rest of the time Miss J and Mr W spent on SVR 
 before and after Target was involved, and for the time it should have taken Target to 
process the deed  is not something I can fairly hold Target responsible for.
Im therefore satisfied that the financial loss Miss J and Mr W have suffered because of 
Targets delay is six additional weeks on their lenders SVR.
Target says I should not award any redress for that time. It says thats because by the time 
of the delay, Miss J and Mr W had taken a payment deferral from their old lender. It wouldnt 
be fair, Target says, to compensate them for payments they didnt actually make.But I dont agree about that. Miss J and Mr W did make those payments. The effect of a 
payment deferral was not to write off the payments for the period of the deferral; rather, they 
were deferred to be collected later.
In this case, the monthly payments fell due, Miss J and Mr W did not make them because of 
the deferral, and their lender added them to the loan balance. They formed part of the 
balance charged when the mortgage was redeemed on 16 September 2020. 
Therefore its not right to say that because Miss J and Mr W didnt make any monthly 
payments at this time they have suffered no loss. They still incurred those payments, and 
they paid them when the mortgage was redeemed in September. But for Targets delay, they 
would have had six more weeks of their mortgage being charged at their new lenders lower 
interest rate  and six fewer weeks of the old lenders SVR. In my view, its fair for Target to 
pay them the difference between the two.
Miss J and Mr Ws new interest rate was 1.57%. Their old lenders SVR was 3.59%. I would 
like Miss J and Mr W, when they respond to my provisional decision, to confirm the balance 
of their mortgage as at the date of redemption on 16 September 2020. In the interests of 
simplicity, I intend to direct Target to pay them six weeks of daily interest on that balance, at 
an annual rate of 2.02% - the difference between the two interest rates.
That is the amount of Miss J and Mr Ws loss  the amount by which their balance was too 
high on the date they switched from their old to their new mortgage because of the extra 
interest theyd incurred.
Since their new mortgage started at a higher balance than it ought to have done, Miss J and 
Mr W have also paid too much interest on that mortgage balance since then. If they choose 
to use the redress Im directing to reduce their mortgage balance, they will no longer need to 
do so. So I will also direct Target to pay interest at 1.57% compounded on the excess 
balance, running from 16 September 2020 to two weeks after it makes payment. The 
additional two weeks is to give Miss J and Mr W time to apply the redress to their mortgage 
balance if they wish to do so. If they do, there will be no more losses. And if they dont, 
Target will no longer be responsible for the extra interest they pay going forwards.
Im also satisfied that Targets delays also caused Miss J and Mr W upset and worry at an 
already difficult time. And that it didnt help them when they tried to find out what was 
causing the delay. Im satisfied £150 is fair compensation.
Finally, I agree with our investigator that it wouldnt be fair to expect Target to refund the 
£115 application fee  since this was the fee for the service Miss J and Mr W wanted, and 
the service they eventually  after delays  got.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive set out above the findings of my provisional decision. Neither party had any further 
arguments to make, no new evidence to present. I therefore see no reason to change my 
mind.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Target 
Servicing Limited to:Calculate six weeks daily interest on Miss J and Mr Ws mortgage balance as at 
16 September 2020 at an annual rate of 2.02%;
Pay them that sum, adding compound annual interest of 1.57% running from 
16 September 2020 to two weeks after date of payment; and
Pay Miss J and Mr W £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman