DRN-3967469
The complaint
Mr L complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Specialist Motor Finance Limited (who Ill call SMF).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
Mr L has been represented by his partner at times but as Mr L is named on the finance 
agreement and for convenience, I will refer only to him in this decision. I mean no disrespect 
to Mr Ls partner when doing so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint SMF, but I dont think this car has been of acceptable quality and I 
think they therefore need to take some action to put things right for Mr L. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr L acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then SMF, who are also the supplier of 
the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they 
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account 
any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr L. The car here was about 
four and a half years old and had completed about 34,000 miles when it was supplied. So, I 
think it would be unlikely to be fault free, as would perhaps be the case with a brand new 
car.
SMF are only responsible for faults with the car that were present or developing when the 
car was supplied to Mr L. That would include faults were the car, or its components, havent 
been as durable as they should have been.
The clutch was replaced on this car in September 2021 about six months after Mr L had 
taken receipt of it. Hed only driven about 1,500 miles in the car at that point and I think its 
likely the clutch was therefore faulty, or developing a fault, when the car was supplied to him.
In those circumstances the relevant legislation allows the business to complete a repair and 
Im pleased to see SMF were prepared to do that for Mr L free of charge.
In April 2022 Mr L experienced a further problem with the clutch. By that time, hed driven 
about a further 3,500 miles. The most recent independent inspection of the failed 
components suggests they were faulty. The inspector said, we were able to identify defects 
with the clutch components and the release bearing was leaking fluid which has 
contaminated the remaining clutch components.
I dont think the new clutch has therefore been durable as I think a reasonable person 
wouldnt expect a clutch replacement to fail after only 3,500 miles.
In those circumstances the relevant legislation may have entitled Mr L to reject the car, but I 
can see here that he accepted repairs to it and in those circumstances I dont think rejection 
would be reasonable now. But I do think that SMF should cover the cost of the repair.
Putting things right
SMF should pay the repair bill of £609.89. If Mr L has already paid that and needs to be 
reimbursed, SMF should add 8% simple interest from the date Mr L paid the bill until the 
date of settlement. And as Mr L will have been deprived of that money SMF will need to add 
interest to the refund.
Mr L hasnt used the car since 27 April 2022. Its not fair for him to pay for a car he hasnt 
been able to use so SMF should refund any finance instalments hes paid since 27 April 
2022. If any finance instalments were due in this period but havent been paid, SMF should 
waive them. SMF will again need to add interest to any refund.
Mr L has clearly been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes been without a car for some 
time and has had to escalate his complaint to this service when I think it could have been 
resolved earlier. In the circumstances, I think SMF should pay him £200 in compensation.
I note that there appears to be a flat tyre on the car at the moment and that the inspector has 
explained there was a noise that he believed related to the fuel level being low and the fuel 
pump picking up air. For clarity, Im not asking SMF to attend to any repairs relating to those 
issues as theyve never been part of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and tell Specialist Motor Finance 
Limited to:
Pay the customer or repairing garage £609.89 for the repairs to the car as detailed
above  if the customer has already paid for the repairs to be carried out then 8%
yearly simple interest* should be added to this from the date the customer paid for
these to the date of settlement.
Pay a refund of rentals from, and including, 27 April 2022 to the date the repairing 
costs have been settled, in respect of loss of use. Add 8% simple yearly interest* 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay £200 compensation in respect of the distress and inconvenience Mr L has experienced.
Remove any adverse information they may have reported to Mr Ls credit file in 
relation to this issue.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest they must 
give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 May 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman