DRN-3518519
The complaint
Mr D complains about Acromas Insurance Company Limited and their decision to decline his 
motor insurance claim following the theft of his vehicle.
Acromas are the underwriters of Mr Ms motor insurance policy. And Im aware Mr M spoke 
with the provider of this insurance policy during the claim, not Acromas. But as the complaint 
relates to the claim decline, which falls under Acromas responsibility, Ive referred to both 
the policy provider and Acromas as Acromas throughout the decision for ease of reference.
What happened
On 20 November 2021, Mr D found that his car had been stolen overnight, while it was 
parked outside his home address. So, he called Acromas to make a claim and reported the 
theft to the police.
Acromas requested further information from Mr D, including details of the lease company 
and the tracking system on the vehicle. While this information was being obtained, Acromas 
sought further clarification over the circumstances of the theft. And on calls with Acromas, Mr 
D confirmed his vehicle had been parked outside his house on the night of the incident, and 
not in his garage as he would usually do. 
Due to this, on 5 January 2022, Acromas both spoke to, and wrote to, Mr D to make him 
aware his claim had been declined as the vehicle hadnt been stored in the garage 
overnight, in line with an endorsement on the policy. Mr D was unhappy about this, so he 
raised a complaint.
Mr D thought Acromas decision to decline the claim was unfair. He didnt think it was 
reasonable to expect a customer to park a vehicle in a garage 365 days a year and he 
thought an element of human error should be allowed.. Nor did he think Acromas made it 
clear what the ramifications of not using the garage may be. So, Mr D wanted the claim to be 
upheld.
Acromas responded and didnt agree. They thought the endorsement was made clear to Mr 
D when he added the vehicle to his insurance policy in 2019. And as the vehicle wasnt kept 
in the garage on the night of its theft, they thought they had declined the claim fairly as the 
terms of the endorsement hadnt been met. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything 
more. Mr D remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They recognised the financial 
impact the claim decline had on Mr D. But they thought Acromas had declined the claim 
fairly, within the terms and conditions of the insurance policy Mr D held. So, they didnt think 
Acromas needed to do anything more.
Mr D didnt agree, and he maintained his belief that Acromas had failed to make it 
reasonably clear to him what the consequences would be if he failed to meet the terms of 
the endorsement. And he didnt think Acromas had communicated with his reasonably as it 
took them six weeks to make him aware that the claim would be declined. As Mr D didnt 
agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr D. I appreciate how 
upsetting it wouldve been to find his vehicle had been stolen. And I recognise Mr D had his 
insurance policy in place to protect him from the financial loss this theft would have. So, 
when Mr D realised his claim wouldnt be upheld, and that hed be left without a car and 
remaining finance to pay without an insurance pay-out to cover this, I can understand the 
worry and upset hed feel.
But for me to say Acromas should uphold Mr Ds claim, Id need to be satisfied theyve done 
something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied that they failed to act in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy Mr D held when declining the claim. Or, if I think they did, that it was 
unfair for them to do so. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
I also think its important for me to explain how Ive considered the complaint and reached 
my decision. Its not my role to re-underwrite Mr Ds claim as our service doesnt have the 
jurisdiction or the expertise to do so. Nor do we make determinations on whether a business 
has failed to take into account legal requirements as we are an alternative to the courts. 
Instead, my decision has focused solely on the actions of Acromas and whether I think these 
were fair. And I think there were here.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of Mr Ds insurance policy, which were attached to his 
renewal documentation on 6 February 2021, around 9 months before his vehicle was stolen. 
The cover letter attached to these documents states Before you put these documents 
away, please check them to make sure you have all the cover you need. So, I think 
Acromas made Mr D reasonably aware of his policy documentation and placed the 
emphasis on Mr D to ensure he understood them.
Within the renewal schedule, it contains a section under the title Endorsements explaining 
that there were special conditions that apply to Mr Ds policy. The schedule then explains 
the following endorsements will be applied to your policy and form part of the terms, 
conditions and exceptions before stating under number MS13  Overnight Garaging that:
Your vehicle must be kept within a locked garage between the hours of 11pm and 7am 
when not in use and at your home address.
An overview of Acromas terms and conditions were also included within the same renewal 
documents. And these explain under the section Are there any restrictions on cover? that 
there would be restrictions for Any endorsements shown on your schedule. 
Mr D doesnt dispute that the vehicle wasnt parked within his garage between 11pm and 
7am on the night of the theft. And so, I dont think Acromas have acted unfairly when 
deciding that Mr D failed to meet the terms of the endorsement. And because of the above, I 
cant say theyve acted outside of the terms of Mr Ds policy when declining the claim.But I recognise Mr D thinks this is unfair as it doesnt allow for human error and that its 
unreasonable to expect someone to park a vehicle in their garage every night of the year. 
But I dont agree. The endorsement explains the vehicle needed to be parked in the garage 
when it was at Mr Ds home address, not every night of the year as there may be times 
where Mr D was somewhere else. So, I dont think Im able to say the endorsement on the 
policy is unreasonable.
Ive seen a transcript of the conversation held between Mr D and Acromas when he added 
the vehicle onto his policy in 2019. And I think it was made reasonably clear to Mr D that, for 
the vehicle to be added to the policy, the additional endorsements were needed to satisfy 
Acromas that the risk had been mitigated. I can see the endorsement was read aloud to Mr 
D and he agreed for the policy to continue. And since then, Mr D has continue to renew the 
policy, where the endorsement has been clearly noted within the policy documentation.
So, I dont think I can say that the term was unreasonable or unfair, as it didnt state the 
vehicle would need to be parked in the garage every night of the year, only when it was at 
Mr Ds home address. And I think Mr D was made reasonably aware that the use of the 
garage was a requirement of the policy. While I appreciate it wasnt explicitly stated to Mr D 
verbally that failure to do this would lead to a declined claim in the event the vehicle was 
stolen from his home address, I wouldnt expect Acromas to do this. And I think the policy 
documentation made it reasonably clear any failure to meet the terms of the endorsement 
would trigger a restriction on the cover he was being provided.
Because of the above, I dont think I can say Acromas acted unfairly, or did anything wrong, 
when declining Mr Ds claim and so, I dont think they need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr D was hoping for. And I appreciate this wont help 
alleviate the financial impact of the theft on Mr D, which I want to make clear I havent taken 
lightly. But for me to direct Acromas to do something differently, I first need to be satisfied 
theyve made an error. And I cant say they have on this occasion. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about Acromas Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman