DRN-3173179
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) handled a 
claim on his car insurance policy. He considers that it wrongly attributed liability for an 
accident to him.  
What happened
Ms M is a named driver on Mr Ms insurance policy and was driving the car when the 
incident happened. Ms M and Mr M have brought the complaint to this service together, but I 
will refer to Ms M throughout.
The details of the incident are well known to all the parties in the complaint so I wont list 
them here, but in brief Ms M was involved in an incident with a cyclist at a zebra crossing. 
She says the cyclist appeared out of nowhere, ran into her vehicle as she started forward 
and that the cyclist was responsible for the collision. She told us that police officers who 
attended the scene shortly after the incident told her that she wasnt to blame.
Advantage said that it would investigate the incident including getting statements from a third 
party witness and the police. Advantage did not obtain these statements and it then made 
the decision that Ms M was at fault for the incident. Advantage said that as it involved a 
vulnerable road user at a zebra crossing it had very little chance of defending the claim 
successfully. It said this was because of the nature of the incident and due to Ms Ms 
description of it. Advantage settled the claim with the third party.
Ms M feels very strongly that Advantage did not investigate her claim properly by not 
contacting the third party witness or the police. She is unhappy about Advantage not 
contacting the witnesses, she would like the decision on fault to be redressed so that she 
may be able to obtain cheaper cover. Ms M would also like an apology and compensation 
from Advantage and their solicitors for the stress and anxiety caused as she says she has 
been harassed by them to give them more information about the incident.
Advantage told us that the reason they didnt contact the police was that they werent in 
attendance at the time of the incident so werent witnesses to it. It also says that as a 
business, its important it doesnt incur extra costs when it doesnt have to. It said that given 
Ms Ms version of events it thought it was unlikely that it would be able to defend the case in 
court so it wouldnt ask for the witness reports due to the cost of getting them and the likely 
outcome in court.
Our investigator didnt think Advantage had acted fairly. She said that Advantage should:
Review its liability stance upon receipt of the police report (including the independent 
witness statement) or after obtaining a legal opinion on liability from an independent 
solicitor; and
If its considered the available evidence including the police report wouldve 
established a successful defence and that the incident was wholly caused by the 
other party, then it should amend the claim to a non-fault one. This will include 
changing internal and external databases, premiums and No Claim Bonus (NCB); or
If its considered the available evidence including the police report wouldve 
established a partial defence and shown each party was partly responsible for the 
incident, it should amend the claim value accordingly and change the databases. For 
the avoidance of doubt if its considered that each party was for example, equally to 
blame a 50/50 settlement of liability should be recorded);
Pay Ms M £150 for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience it caused her by not 
applying for the police report from the start. 
Ms M accepted our investigators view but Advantage disagreed. It said that Ms Ms 
description of the events would not allow it any defence in court. It also said that the polices 
assessment of liability could not be considered as the police did not witness the event. It 
says that it has:
a responsibility to mitigate claim costs by not needlessly escalating claims to court 
and paying fees/charges to obtain information if we know a more favourable outcome 
is very unlikely.
Advantage also mention that one of the reasons they had to contact Ms M so often was 
because Ms M did not notify them of the claim, so they had to chase Ms M by text message 
to make contact.
Our investigator issued another view of the complaint and said that she thought there was a 
strong possibility the witness report contained further information about whether the incident 
could be defended in court. She also said that it would have eased some of Ms Ms stress 
and inconvenience and that Advantage should take the actions listed above.
Advantage also disagreed with this second view. They said it was very likely Ms M would be 
found at least partially liable for the claim if it went to court so she would still have to disclose 
a fault claim when the policy renews and it would still affect the NCB. It mentions a case in 
UK law involving an accident at a zebra crossing which is a very strong indicator that Ms M 
would be held liable in court. Advantage say they used their right to decide on the claim 
correctly and that they shouldnt have to pay Ms M £150 compensation as it doesnt believe 
getting the report would change the outcome of the case.
As Advantage has disagreed with the investigators view, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide who is at fault for an accident, as this is the role of the courts. Instead, we 
look at whether the insurer acted fairly and reasonably in making its decision, and in line with 
its policy. 
I can see from Ms Ms submissions that she has found the experience very stressful at a 
difficult time for her. I can also see that Ms M was put under a great deal of stress by another 
third party acting on behalf of the cyclist attempting to claim directly from Ms M and who only 
relented when asked to by the police. 
Ms M found the approach of Advantages accident investigators harassing and bullying as they were contacting her daily for more information about her claim. Although I cant see the 
specific evidence of the volume of these contacts, I know its important for an insurance 
company to investigate the circumstances surrounding an incident quickly and efficiently in 
order that they might defend a third party claim. I think on balance that Advantage were right 
to chase Ms M given that they were notified of the claim by a third party.
Ive looked carefully at Ms Ms description of what happened and I can see that Advantage 
told her that they would make enquiries with the police and pursue the witness statement as 
part of its investigations. I can see no evidence that Advantage have actually obtained this 
information and I dont think this is fair and reasonable. 
We expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the available evidence 
before making its decision on liability. Such a decision should be made in a fair and 
reasonable manner. In this case it seems to me that Advantage had taken the view that Ms 
M was at fault based on her evidence alone and didnt therefore pursue other evidence.
It is my decision that Advantage:
Obtain the police report and independent witness statement.
Review its stance on liability for the incident considering this newly obtained evidence 
and further legal advice.
If Advantage thinks that the incident was wholly caused by the other party, then it 
should amend the claim to a non-fault one. This will include changing internal and 
external databases and No Claim Bonus (NCB); or
If Advantage thinks that both parties were partly responsible for the incident, it should 
amend the claim value accordingly and change the databases. 
If the outcome is a partial fault, Ms M would still have to notify her insurers of a fault claim 
and the NCB and premium would be affected in future years.
I also think that Advantage should make a payment to Ms M of £150 for her distress and 
inconvenience because it did not obtain all the information about the incident that it could 
have when the incident was reported to them.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to investigate the incident as set out above and communicate the outcome to Ms M. I 
also require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay £150 compensation to Ms M for 
the distress and inconvenience it caused her.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman