DRN-1745976
The complaint
Mr B has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him fee-paying Passport 
and Advance accounts, which were sold to him in April 2010 and February 2012 
respectively. 
Mr B says that he was not provided with information about the cost or the benefits that came 
with the accounts. He says he was sold fee-paying accounts due to mis-leading information. 
What happened
HSBC upheld Mr Bs complaint about the sale of the Advance account, and has offered to 
put matters right in line with what our service wouldve recommended had we upheld it. So I 
wont look into that sale here.
HSBC didnt think that it had mis-sold the Passport account however. So one of our 
adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that the Passport account had 
been mis-sold either.
Mr Bs representative disagreed and so the matter has been referred for an ombudsmans 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used that to help me to decide this case.
Mr Bs representative has said Mr B was convinced his account was opened as a fee-free 
account, which he did not ask for and did not even need. Im not sure I understand what Mr 
Bs representative is trying to say here, as it appears to be suggesting that Mr B did not ask 
for or even need a fee-free account. But, even if the representative meant to say Mr B 
thought his account was opened as a fee-paying account (rather than fee-free), that is 
correct. It was. 
HSBC has said that this was because Mr B was not eligible to open a standard fee-free 
HSBC current account at the time. This is because HSBC says Mr B was new to the country 
at the time. 
HSBC says that the Passport account was designed for people in Mr Bs circumstances i.e. 
were new to the UK and either had no immediate proof of a UK address; or had not built up 
a credit score - either of which wouldve prevented them from being able to open a standard 
current account with HSBC. And, despite having had ample opportunity to do so, Mr Bs 
representative has not provided our service with any information about Mr Bs circumstances 
that makes me think that what HSBC has said was incorrect or that he wouldve been 
eligible for a standard HSBC current account at the time. 
HSBC says that the only other option (beyond a Passport account) that may have been 
available to Mr B at the time, was a Basic account. But HSBC says that this type of account 
had very limited functionality  for example it did not provide the account holder with a debit 
card. So if Mr B had opened a Basic account instead, he would not have been able to pay 
for goods or services by card and wouldve been limited to withdrawing cash only from 
HSBC ATMs or branches, if he wanted to access his money. 
HSBC has said that Mr B has used his debit card extensively whilst he held the Passport 
account. This would suggest that having use of a debit card was important to Mr B and was 
something he needed. And as the Passport account was the only option available to Mr B for 
him to have a standard current account - that included a debit card - I cant say he was 
unfairly denied the choice of having a fee-free current account.
Mr B has said he was not provided with any information about bank charges and benefits 
associated with the account. But looking at the application form, which Mr B signed, I can 
see that it explained Mr B was applying to have a Passport account, which would be for an 
initial period of 12 months. 
The form indicated that Mr B was made aware of the monthly fee, as well as the 14-day 
cooling off period. And the form suggests that Mr B was given information about the benefits 
of the account - which were things like a discounted rate on international money transfers, a 
SIM card pre-loaded with £10 credit, a relocation service that offered advice in different 
languages and a Regular Saver savings account. 
Therefore I think that Mr B was provided with at least some information about how much the 
account cost each month and what features it came with, when he applied for it. And Im 
satisfied that Mr B agreed to open the account. And although Mr B might have been able 
open a fee-free account with other banks or building societies, I can only reasonably expect 
HSBC to have discussed the accounts that it offered.
I appreciate that HSBC might not have given Mr B all of the information about the account 
that it shouldve during the application process. But given that Mr B had very limited options 
in terms of opening an account with HSBC at the time, I think its unlikely he wouldve 
chosen not to open the Passport account, had he been given more information about it. 
Because of this, I dont think the Passport account was mis-sold.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman