DRN-1414740
The complaint
Miss J complains that her accounts were frozen by Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS), which left 
her without access to her money.
What happened
On 11 July 2019 Miss J tried to use her BoS debit card at an Automated Teller Machine 
(ATM) to withdraw money from her account. However, she wasnt able to access her money 
even though there were sufficient funds in her account. 
When Miss J contacted BoS to query why the payment had been declined it told her that her 
accounts had been frozen. Miss J said these accounts included her home insurance, 
mortgage, ISA and two bank accounts. She stated her partners and childrens accounts 
were also frozen.
Miss J said BoS hadnt given her notice it was intending to freeze her accounts. But it 
informed her that it didnt know why her accounts had been restricted and, if she wished to 
lift the restrictions on her accounts, shed have to attend a branch with two forms of 
identification. 
Miss J explained that she wouldnt be able to attend a branch during opening hours that day 
and desperately required access to the funds in her accounts to feed her children. So, she 
asked BoS to escalate her concerns. Miss J then spoke with a manager at BoS who 
repeated what the previous staff member had told her. 
On 12 July 2019 Miss J attended her local branch to ask it to reinstate access to her 
accounts. But, when she spoke with the branch manager, she was informed the issue 
affecting her accounts couldnt be resolved in the way that had been suggested because her 
accounts were subject to a processing delay. So, attending a branch with ID couldnt remove 
the restriction. 
Miss J said the branch manager told her he didnt know why a processing delay was 
affecting her accounts and shed have to wait for it to be resolved. But, as Miss J couldnt 
access her funds and had received no explanation of why this had happened or when it 
would be resolved, she complained.
When BoS responded to Miss Js complaint it didnt uphold it. It explained that it didnt think it 
had made an error in preventing her from accessing funds in her accounts. It stated this was 
in accordance with its terms and conditions, which outlined that BoS was entitled to block a 
customers account without notice should if feel it necessary.
But, while BoS didnt uphold Miss Js complaint relating her it blocking her accounts, it 
accepted the information shed been given about having to take ID into the branch to lift her 
account restrictions was incorrect. And, in recognition of this, it offered to compensate her 
£50 for the distress and inconvenience shed been caused and £12 to reflect the telephone 
expenses Miss J may have incurred in discussing the status of her accounts. 
Being dissatisfied with the way in which BoS proposed to resolve her complaint Miss J 
referred it to our service. Our investigator assessed the evidence provided by Miss J and 
BoS but didnt recommend upholding this complaint. They didnt think BoS had made an 
error in blocking Miss Js accounts while they were subject to a processing delay. And they 
thought the financial resolution it had proposed to recognise that Miss J had been given 
incorrect information about how to regain access to her accounts was reasonable in the 
circumstances. But Miss J disagreed with the investigators view of her complaint and 
asked it to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues. I can assure Miss J and BoS that Ive read everything that theyve provided. 
So, if Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered it. Its just that I 
dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Miss J experienced here. I can appreciate that she was 
caused distress and inconvenience by what happened. And I can see how strongly she feels 
about her complaint. But, while I sympathise with Miss J, having thought about everything 
she and BoS have said Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator. I 
appreciate Miss J will be disappointed by this outcome. But I hope she can understand the 
reasons behind my decision.
Miss J has told our service that the issue affecting her accounts also affected her partners 
and childrens accounts. I understand why Miss J may be keen for me to know that other 
family members accounts were impacted by what happened. But I want to make clear to her 
that this final decision relates only to what happened to Miss J.
The evidence Ive seen indicates that the processing delay commenced on 11 July 2019, 
which coincides with the date Miss J couldnt withdraw funds from an ATM. Prior to this date, 
I can see that a direct debit left Miss Js account on 8 July 2019. Thereafter, there was no 
further account activity until 23 July 2019, which was when the processing delay issue was 
resolved. The processing delay therefore impacted Miss J for 12 days.
I appreciate that Miss J may feel the processing delay could have been resolved earlier. But 
I havent seen any evidence that shows BoS could have resolved the issues with her 
accounts sooner. So, I cant say the length of the processing delay was excessive. I 
therefore think BoS made the funds in Miss Js accounts available to her as soon as it was 
able to.
Ive considered the terms and conditions that apply to Miss Js accounts to see what they 
say about processing delays. Having done so, Im satisfied that the information BoS 
provided in its terms and conditions was clear, transparent and explained in plain and 
intelligible language. I say this because section 5.4 of the terms and conditions outlines the 
circumstances in which BoS can refuse to act on a customers instruction.
Miss J would have had to accept these terms and conditions when she opened her 
accounts. So, it is fair and reasonable that BoS now relies on these terms and conditions 
given each agreed to contract on this basis.Im satisfied that BoS acted in line with the terms and conditions of Miss Js account in 
subjecting her accounts to a processing delay. As our investigator explained, BoS has these 
processes in place and theyre in line with most banks and industry practices. It follows that I 
cant fairly conclude its done anything wrong.
Ill move on to Miss Js concerns about the way in which BoS communicated with her about 
the status of her account. 
Miss J told our investigator she wants BoS to disclose the reasons why her accounts were 
frozen  she wants to ensure she can prevent this from happening again. I can understand 
why Miss J would want more information about why her accounts were subject to a 
processing delay. But BoS is under no obligation to tell her why her accounts were 
restricted, as much as she wants to know. Our service cant tell it to share this information 
with her and I dont think itd be fair for me to ask BoS to elaborate any further.
Miss J has told our service she isnt happy BoS didnt notify her in writing that it had removed 
the restrictions affecting her accounts. But BoS said its process is such that it wouldnt write 
to a customer about either a processing delay being applied or removed. And our service 
cant tell a bank to change its processes or say that theyre wrong.
BoS said it communicate to Miss Js branch that her accounts were no longer restricted. And 
I can see the branch manager attempted to call her to update her about the status of her 
accounts. However, they couldnt reach her. Im sure Miss J will appreciate that I cant fairly 
hold BoS responsible for the fact that she didnt answer the telephone when it contacted her. 
In any event, Im not persuaded that Miss J was prejudiced by BoS failure to inform her that 
the processing delay had been resolved. I say this because she transacted on her accounts 
the same day the restrictions were lifted. And I can see that she used her debit card on 
several occasions the following day. This demonstrates that she was already aware the 
block on her accounts had been removed before BoS was able to communicate this with 
her.
Ill turn now to the question of whether the compensation BoS paid Miss J in recognition of 
the fact that it gave her incorrect information about how to resolve the issue affecting her 
accounts was reasonable.
In being told Miss J could remove the restrictions on her accounts by attending a branch with 
ID I think BoS unfairly raised her expectations. I say this because its reasonable for Miss J 
to have assumed that an attendance at a branch would resolve the issues affecting her 
accounts. And that information wasnt correct  the situation was more complex than that.
To recognise the fact that BoS gave incorrect information to Miss J, I think a modest amount 
of compensation is fair here. Having thought carefully about the impact this error had on 
Miss J, Im satisfied that the £50 already paid by BoS is a reasonable amount thats 
proportionate to the inconvenience and worry that she would have been caused. Its in line 
with our approach in similar scenarios and its what Id have told BoS to pay. 
Im also persuaded that the £12 payment BoS made towards Miss Js telephone expenses is 
a reasonable sum to reflect the cost of telephone calls she made in discussing her concerns 
about her account. I havent seen any evidence that shows she incurred expenses over and 
above that amount. So, I cant fairly say a higher award is warranted here.
I appreciate the reasons why Miss J brought this complaint to our service. But I think BoS 
has acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances of this complaint. So, Im not going 
to ask it to do anymore.My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman