DRN-3896195
The complaint
Mr S complains that ReAssure Limited has not responded to a number of questions he has 
asked about the pension he holds with it.
What happened
Mr S has a pension with ReAssure that was transferred from another provider under a bulk 
transfer scheme. He wrote to ReAssure in early 2021. In that letter he asked:
Whether he could keep the funds invested but with draw 25% tax free cash (TFC);
Whether he could drawdown further funds from his investments but keep the 
remaining money invested in the same funds;
What the charges were for doing the above; and
To stop the lifestyle model of his pension so that his investments remained as they 
were.
Mr S says he received a letter confirming the lifestyle option had been stopped but not 
answering the other questions. Mr S says he called ReAssure and said his other questions 
had not been answered. At this time, he also asked whether he could extend his retirement 
date and for further details on the death benefits of his policy. Mr S says he believed that his 
previous pension provider allowed him to use a drawdown facility and he had now been told 
he couldnt. He thought this was a change to the terms of his pension. Mr S says during this 
call he wasnt able to get answers to his questions but was told ReAssure would write to him 
with answers.
ReAssure wrote to Mr S a number of times after this call. But Mr S says these letters were 
generic responses and didnt give him the information he required. Mr S complained about 
this. ReAssure responded to Mr S complaint and offered £100 compensation as it said it 
hadnt responded to his enquires in a timely manner. It said it would be shortly writing to 
Mr S to address his queries. 
However, Mr S says the responses he received following this still didnt answer his 
questions. Unhappy with this, Mr S referred the complaint to our Service. One of our 
Investigators looked into the complaint and, after the complaint was referred to us, ReAssure 
offered a further £200 compensation. Our Investigator thought this was a fair amount of 
compensation. He said that ReAssure had now responded to Mr S questions and he 
explained that pension providers werent required to offer a drawdown facility. The 
Investigator noted that Mr S had asked two further questions which hadnt been answered by 
ReAssure. He explained that these had been asked after Mr S had first raised his complaint, 
so he didnt comment on these as part of the complaint other than to ask ReAssure to 
respond to Mr S regarding these.
Mr S didnt agree and responded to our Investigator in detail. He said, in summary, his 
questions still hadnt been answered fully, his previous provider offered a drawdown facility 
and the number of units in some of his funds had decreased and he didnt know why. He 
also said that his retirement age had yet to be amended, despite his request. Mr S didnt 
agree with the amount of £300 as compensation.
Our Investigator considered things again, but didnt change his opinion. He explained that 
Mr S still could use a drawdown facility with ReAssure, hed just need to change his pension 
to another product with ReAssure. The Investigator also explained that Mr S wasnt required 
to retire at the noted retirement age, so he hadnt been caused any detriment by this  hed 
be able to decide when to retire at a later date. Lastly, our investigator directed Mr S to raise 
the complaint about the reduction in units to ReAssure as it hadnt yet had the chance to 
respond to that complaint point. 
Mr S disagreed again and also raised the fact that his annual charges had increased this 
year for his pension. As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to 
me to review and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has raised a number of points and responded to our Investigator in detail. I want to 
reassure him that Ive read and considered everything hes sent us. If I dont address a 
particular point, its not because I havent thought about it. Its simply due to the informal 
nature of this service as an alternative to the courts. Instead, Ill focus on what I consider the 
crux of this complaint to be. That is, the lack of responses to Mr S initial questions, and that 
Mr S believes the drawdown facility was withdrawn following his pension being transferred to 
ReAssure. Ill address the points separately below.
Lack of responses to Mr S questions
Ive reviewed the responses that ReAssure sent to Mr S when he first raised his enquiries. 
I agree that a number of these responses do appear to be generic and dont specifically 
answer Mr S questions. 
I can see that ReAssure wrote to Mr S on 14 April 2021 to provide a breakdown of his fund 
holdings, to set out the annual management charge and to confirm that drawdown wasnt 
available with his current pension. But it did explain that he could transfer to another product 
with ReAssure if he wanted to utilise a drawdown facility. So, whilst some of the questions 
Mr S asked are broadly covered by the correspondence, not all were. 
ReAssure wrote to Mr S again in July 2021 confirming that drawdown was not an option on 
his current pension and this time directed him to the Money Advisory Service. And in a 
separate letter confirmed again that he could switch to another pension product with 
ReAssure or seek independent advice if he wished to utilise the drawdown feature. I think, at 
this point, ReAssure had provided Mr S with sufficient information to be able to understand 
how his pension was working overall and what he could do if he did wish to use a drawdown 
facility. And it had pointed him to free advice services as well. However, it had still not 
responded to Mr S question about the death benefits under his pension. 
Overall, I think it wouldve been more helpful had ReAssure provided Mr S with more specific 
answers to his questions and responded to all of the questions. So, I think ReAssures 
customer service wasnt as good as it shouldve been in this situation. ReAssure has offered 
£300 total compensation for this. It wouldve been stressful for Mr S to have to keep asking 
the same questions and only getting generic responses. But I think £300 is a fair amount of compensation in the circumstances.
I note that ReAssure has since provided some further details to Mr S regarding the death 
benefits his policy has. But, if Mr S is still unclear about the death benefits under his pension, 
then he should let ReAssure know and it should explain in further detail these benefits.
The drawdown facility on Mr S pension
Mr S says his previous pension provider offered a drawdown facility and ReAssure doesnt. 
Its unclear from the information weve been provided whether this is the case or not. Mr S 
has provided information which he says shows it was offered. Ive reviewed this, and its 
again unclear. I think Mr S may be confusing drawing down TFC with a drawdown facility. 
His previous pension provider referred in the terms and conditions to being able to 
drawdown 25% TFC, but this is different to a drawdown facility which would allow Mr S to 
withdraw the remaining sums as and when he pleased. The ability to drawdown in this 
manner was a new feature of pensions when the Pension Freedoms legislation was 
introduced in 2015. 
As our Investigator explained, pension providers arent required to offer a drawdown facility. 
However, ReAssure has explained to Mr S that he can access a drawdown facility by 
transferring his pension to another product within its range. Based on this, I cant see this 
has caused Mr S any detriment. 
New complaint points
Mr S is now unhappy about the reduction in units within some of his funds and, hes recently 
raised a concern with the increase in annual management fees. These points hadnt 
previously been raised with ReAssure, so I cant consider them as part of this complaint. 
ReAssure must be given the chance to respond to Mr S first. If Mr S remains unhappy once 
he has this response, he may refer this to us as a new complaint. So, I havent considered 
this point further.
Mr S may have further questions following this complaint. But our role isnt to answer 
questions about how a pension works. Mr S will either need to contact ReAssure again, or 
seek the advice of a financial advisor. I understand Mr S doesnt wish to do this because of 
the cost involved, but I would remind him about the free service that ReAssure and our 
investigator have provided him with details of.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, ReAssure should pay £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its delays in providing information to Mr S. Id remind ReAssure 
that it should also provide specific answers to any further questions Mr S has. Though some 
of Mr S questions may need to be directed to a professional advisor.
My final decision
I understand Mr S will remain unhappy, but my final decision is that ReAssure Limited should 
pay Mr S £300 in total for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Rob DeadmanOmbudsman