DRN-3444776
The complaint
Mrs C complains that she was mis-sold a 123 account (123A) in October 2012 by Santander 
UK Plc (Santander).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C says that she was told in a branch meeting in 2012 that she must upgrade her 
account to a 123A if she wanted to continue banking with Santander.
Santander says that it provided information to Mrs C about the 123A and she chose to 
upgrade her account based on that.
I wasnt there in the branch meeting, so I cant know what was said. I can only base my 
decision on the evidence available today.
The benefits of the 123A are cash savings on certain types of bills when paid for through the 
account; and being paid interest on the account if it is in credit over certain levels.
The evidence shows that Mrs C has made very little use of the benefits but that does not 
mean of itself that the 123A was mis-sold.
Mrs C had a fee free account with Santander before converting to a 123A. And fee free 
accounts were widely available and advertised by other banks at the time. So, I think that if 
Santander had tried to force her to open a fee-paying account, she would have looked 
elsewhere and found a free account that met her needs.
Santander says it gave Mrs C a brochure about the 123A following the sale. I think its more 
likely than not that she received the brochure as Santander has provided evidence that it 
was its usual practice to send such brochures, and it had Mrs Cs correct address. 
The brochure contains the information that other free accounts are available with Santander, 
and that Mrs C could close the 123A at any time.
So, for the reasons given above I think its more likely than not Mrs C knew she had a choice 
whether to take out the 123A and she chose to do so.
Mrs C says that Santander advised her to take out the 123. Santander says it didnt provide 
advice, it only provided information.
Ive not seen any record of Santander discussing Mrs Cs circumstances with her as I would 
expect to see if advice was given. And Santander has provided evidence that its usual 
practice was not to provide advice in such sales.
So, I think its more likely than not that no advice was given. So Santander was only required 
to provide enough information to Mrs C for her to make an informed decision whether to take 
out the 123A or not.
And I think its more likely than not that Santander did. I say this because both parties agree 
there was detailed discussion about the 123A, and Ive found above that its more likely than 
not she received the information brochure.
So, I know Mrs C will be disappointed and I dont doubt her honest recollections, but I think 
her memory is mistaken and its more likely than not that Santander didnt do anything wrong 
in this sale.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman