DRN-3746041
The complaint
Mr L complains about QIC Europe Ltds (QIC) handling of a claim made under his buildings 
insurance policy. 
Any references to QIC include its agents.
What happened
In February 2022 Mr L made a claim to QIC. He said the roof of his house had been 
damaged by a storm. QIC initially accepted Mr Ls claim after a surveyor attended his 
property and offered him £900. The claim was later reassessed and declined, so Mr L 
complained.
In June 2022, QIC responded to Mr Ls complaint. It said it stood by the decision to decline 
the claim. It said while storm conditions occurred at the time the damage appeared; it 
considered the mortar bonding the ridge tiles had deteriorated over time. QIC said the claim 
had rightly been declined because it considered the damage occurred gradually over time. It 
recognised Mr L would be unhappy with the claim initially being accepted and then declined, 
so offered £100 in respect of this. 
Unhappy with QICs response, Mr L referred his complaint to this service. It was considered 
by one of our investigators who said she thought report from the field surveyor was more 
persuasive than the in-house surveyors opinion. On that basis, she said the claim should be 
accepted. QIC didnt agree, so this matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
QIC accepts storm conditions occurred when Mr L said his home was damaged. On this 
basis, Ive started by considering whether the damage to Mr Ls home was consistent with 
storm damage, and if the storm conditions were the likely cause of the damage. Slipped and 
falling roof tiles are the usual type of damage a property can experience during storm 
conditions. Im satisfied here the damage Mr L claimed for is consistent with the kind of 
damage that can be caused by storm conditions. 
The only point to decide if the storm was the likely cause of the damage. Ive considered the 
report from the surveyor who attended the property. They inspected the damage using a 
pole camera. Having done so, they concluded the roof was in a good condition. They also 
said the ridge tiles were in a good condition with no underlying issues. They considered the 
damage was consistent with storm conditions. 
Ive considered the notes from the in-house surveyor. These stated the claim shouldnt have 
been covered due to what they believed to be the gradual deterioration to the mortar 
bedding, causing the ridge tiles to de-bond. This conclusion was reached by the surveyor 
assessing the photographs obtained by the pole camera. QIC later said the photographs 
showed no mortar under the roof tiles. 
Ive seen the photographs, and these show some mortar where the ridge tiles should have 
been before the storm. Theres no reference in the field surveyors report as to whether they 
were able to inspect any of the fallen tiles. But on balance, here I find the report from the 
field surveyor who attended the property to be more persuasive than that of someone who 
carried out an assessment by reviewing photographs. I say this for a couple of reasons. 
Firstly, its a reasonable assumption QIC considered the field surveyor competent and 
appropriately qualified, on the basis they appointed them to assess claims on their behalf. 
Ive considered the field surveyor was also able to inspect the roof on site, and concluded it 
was in a good condition. Whereas the in-house surveyor only considered the select 
photographs of specific sections of the roof taken by the field surveyor and hasnt provided 
any further evidence to support their comments about the condition of the roof. 
On balance, I find myself more convinced by the conclusion set out by the field surveyor that 
the roof was in a good condition. Therefore, as storm conditions occurred at the time of the 
damage (which is consistent with what you might expect to see in a storm), I consider it is 
more likely than not that the storm conditions were the cause of the damage. It follows, I 
dont consider QIC acted fairly in declining Mr Ls claim. 
Mr L has told us that, given how much time has passed since the roof was damaged, hes 
had this repaired. Given my conclusion QIC acted unfairly when it declined the claim, I 
consider QIC should reimburse Mr L for the amount he paid for these repairs, along with 
simple interest at 8% if he is able to produce an invoice. 
I also note there will have been some inconvenience and worry caused to Mr L by QIC when 
they changed their mind about settling the claim. Hes said how worried he was about the 
possibility of his roof remaining in a state of disrepair. I consider the payment of £100 is 
sufficient in terms of appropriately compensating him for this. If QIC has already paid this to 
Mr L, it doesnt need to pay anything further in respect of the distress and inconvenience 
experienced. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require QIC Europe Ltd to do the following:
Upon production of an invoice, reimburse Mr L the cost he incurred in having the 
repairs carried out. Interest* should be added at the rate of 8% simple per annum 
from the date this would have been paid by the insurer to the date of settlement.
Pay £100 for the distress and inconvenience experienced. 
*If QIC Europe Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from any interest paid, it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. If requested, 
QIC should also provide Mr L with a certificate showing the amount deducted, so he can 
reclaim it from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman