DRN-2891446
The complaint
Ms A is unhappy that Citibank UK Limited hasnt fully refunded her after she fell victim to a 
scam.
  
What happened
The facts of this case are well know to both parties and so I wont go into great detail here. 
Its accepted by all parties that Ms A was the victim of a scam when she was contacted by 
someone claiming to be from HMRC.
Ms A was tricked into making a series of ten payments to six different payees over the 
course of around two and a half hours. She sent a total of £8,559.
She reported the scam to Citibank and it said it would refund from the point at which the 
fourth payee was created; when the fifth transaction was made. That meant a refund of 
£4,900 and Citibank said it would also pay interest on that sum at 8% simple, bringing the 
offer to £5,292 when it was made on 19 March 2020.
The offer was made on the basis that, whilst the transactions were properly authorised by 
Ms A, Citibank recognised it ought to have had systems in place to protect her from falling 
victim to a scam. Those systems include account monitoring to spot suspicious transactions 
and/or account behaviour which might indicate a risk of financial harm. Citibank thought the 
activity on Ms As account became so unusual that it ought to have contacted her and/or 
blocked her account to prevent further transactions.
Ms A wanted our service to consider her fraud claim and didnt accept Citibanks offer in full 
and final settlement of her complaint.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and thought Citibank ought to have 
gone further. She agreed with much of Citibanks rationale, but thought the account activity 
had become unusual enough to the extent that the bank ought to have acted by the time a 
third payee was added in quick succession and the associated payment (payment number 
four) was made. And so she said that extra payment should also be refunded, along with 8% 
simple interest. She sent her opinion confirming this position to Citibank on 29 March 2021.
Ms A understood and accepted the outcome. But we didnt hear back from Citibank despite 
following up with it a number of times. And so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested; 
And that
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed 
with consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress 
or material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to 
make.
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from Citibank to the 
investigators initial assessment, it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis of the 
evidence we already have and/or to take account of Citibanks failure to reply to the 
investigators opinion. 
Citibank agrees that it ought to have measures in place to protect customers from financial 
harm. And it recognises that it might be responsible for a customers losses it is found it 
didnt act when it ought to have done. That is why it has already agreed to refund some of 
Ms As loss.   
Citibank has put forward no reasoning as to why it believes the investigators findings are not 
fair and reasonable. Nor has it provided further detail on why it thinks the later payment 
(number five) is the point at which it ought to have stepped in. And so, on review of all the 
evidence and information, I believe it is the earlier payment (number four) that ought to have 
led to Citibanks intervention. The adding of new payees in quick succession, followed by 
rapid payments to them, are key indicators of someone falling victim to fraud. And Im also 
mindful that the accounts the payments were being made to were mostly pre-paid card 
accounts, another common feature of scams like this that Im satisfied Citibank ought to 
have been aware of. Im satisfied that had Citibank acted at the point of payment four there 
would have been no further loss to Ms A. It is then fair and reasonable that it compensate 
her for that loss that followed.
Putting things right
Citibank should now:
refund the £4,900 plus 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement, as originally offered and if this has not yet been paid to Ms A;
refund the additional transaction of £830 plus interest at 8% simple per year from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement; and
pay £100 further compensation to Ms A for the failure to comply with reasonable time 
limits set by this service.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Citibank UK Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021. 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman