DRN-2712677
The complaint
Mr L has complained about the final bonus that Aviva applied to the maturity of his 
endowment policy. He feels Aviva significantly reduced the level of the final bonus between 
the date he was provided with an estimate of the maturity value and the date the policy 
actually matured. He thinks Aviva has unfairly applied the smoothing process to his policy 
and hes said the markets were performance at such a level that the significant difference 
cannot be accounted for.
What happened
Mr Ls endowment policy was due to mature in May 2020. In April the same year he received 
a letter from Aviva which stated the estimated maturity value of the policy was around 
£35,000. However, when the policy did mature he was paid roughly £2,000 less. 
As Mr L feels the markets were preforming well at this point in time he doesnt understand 
why there is such a difference between the two values. He feels Aviva have wrongly 
calculated the figure. He also thinks that while Aviva reviewed its final bonus rates around 
the same time, this had already been applied at the point he received the estimate in April 
2020 so again he sees no reason why he received considerably less than the estimate,.
He also doesnt agree with Aviva applying the smoothing process or how it was applied.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt be upheld. She 
was of the view that Aviva had acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. And as the process of applying the terminal bonus rates was a commercial decision 
on the part of Aviva this was something this service could involve itself in.
Mr L didnt agree with the assessment and remained of the view Aviva had acted incorrectly 
and unfairly in relation to the maturity of his endowment policy.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Its first important to note that the letter Aviva sent to Mr L in April which detailed the 
estimated maturity value clear dated that the final maturity value isnt known until the date of 
the maturity. It also stated that the estimate could go up and down. I therefore dont think 
Mr Ls expectations were unreasonably raised by this letter and he would have known that 
he wasnt able to rely on the estimated maturity value.
The calculation of the terminal bonus and the application of the smoothing process have 
been explained to Mr L a number of times since making his complaint, so there is no need 
for me to go over them again. 
But its important to note that sudden down turns in the market will always affect these types 
of policies if that downturn happens in the lead up to maturity.
Furthermore, the changes to terminal bonus rates and how the smoothing process is applied 
by any business is its own commercial decision which would have been made with guidance 
by the regulator. This is therefore not something this Service can comment on. It is ultimately 
up to Aviva to decide how to work out what to pay at the point of maturity. And this service 
isnt able to dissect the process along with performance of the markets to check whether the 
decision by Aviva are accurate. All we can do is ensure Aviva has acted in line with its terms 
and conditions. And in my view Aviva has. This happens with all these types of policies. And 
it is always made clear when the estimate is provided that it is just that  an estimate and 
nothing can be guaranteed until the policy actually matures.
The estimated figure in April 2020 was based on the 2019 bonus rate and not guaranteed. 
As Aviva said in a with-profits customer newsletter sent to Mr L on 6 May 2020, the 
outbreak of the Coronavirus (Covid-19) over the first three months of 2020 had caused the 
fastest decline in equity markets on record. As such, Aviva was entitled to make a legitimate 
business decision to try and smooth the effects of this turmoil. One of these steps was to 
review and ultimately reduce final bonus rates.
The fund was managed to try and get the best returns possible. It was in no-ones interests 
for the fund to do badly. In other words, the success of the business and the individual 
managers involved will, to some extent, rely on them investing to get the best possible 
returns. Unfortunately, the simple fact is that the fund value dropped in the period just before 
Mr Ls policy was due to mature. 
While Mr Ls maturity value was affected by the turbulence in early 2020 I havent seen any 
evidence that Aviva did anything wrong or that the value paid was incorrect.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman