DRN-2965003
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs A complain that they cannot make use of their overpayment allowance from 
previous years to reduce their mortgage with HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC), without incurring 
an early repayment charge (ERC).
What happened
Mr A and Mrs A took out a mortgage of £100,000 with HSBC in March 2018. It is a 20-year 
capital repayment mortgage, with a five-year fixed rate of 1.94% which expires on 31 May 
2023. The ERC is 1% of any amount repaid early during the fixed rate period. There is an 
annual overpayment allowance of 10% of the outstanding balance at the start of each year.  
Mr A and Mrs A contacted HSBC in January 2021 to ask about the amount of the 
overpayment allowance. HSBC told them that it was an annual allowance  and for the 
annual allowance year to 27 March 2021, it was £9,200.78. And on 28 March 2021, it would 
reset. On 25 March 2021, Mr A and Mrs A made a lump sum reduction of £9,199.78, 
followed by another one of £7,850.70 on 14 April 2021. In December 2021, the balance was 
£67,178.
Mr A and Mrs A complained. They said they interpreted the terms and conditions of their 
mortgage to mean that the annual overpayment allowance could be rolled over  and so 
they could then make three years worth of overpayments totalling £28,821.85 (being year 
one - £10,000; year two - £9,621.07; year three - £9,200.78). They said the terms and 
conditions didnt say rollovers werent allowed, nor had they had any notice that the annual 
allowance was due to expire or had expired in any of the years. They said they should be 
allowed to make overpayments without having to pay an ERC for the first three years of the 
fixed rate period. They said HSBC should change their terms and conditions to say theres 
no rollover allowed and advise customers when each annual allowance ends. They said they 
should be compensated for the time theyd spent in making the complaint. 
HSBC said the terms and conditions in Mr A and Mrs As mortgage offer were clear, as was 
their website. These said that the overpayment allowance was 10% of the amount 
outstanding on the mortgage at the start of each year, and HSBC said there werent any 
rollovers allowed. If an overpayment was made which exceeded the allowance, then an ERC 
was payable. Separately, because of the time between when Mr A and Mrs A first raised the 
question on 21 January 2021 and HSBCs final response on 1 March 2021  this meant that 
Mr A and Mrs As early repayment was delayed by that amount of time. This meant they paid 
additional interest of £19.08, and for this HSBC made a compensation payment of £70. 
Mr A and Mrs A didnt agree and brought their complaint to us. Our investigator said HSBCs 
terms and conditions were clear. He said that the overpayment allowance was an annual 
allowance, based on the balance on the anniversary of the mortgage drawdown  and any 
overpayment which was more than that would be subject to an ERC. 
Mr A and Mrs A asked that an ombudsman look at their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr A and Mrs As complaint is how HSBCs terms and conditions should be 
interpreted. Let me say that my review isnt the same as one that might be undertaken by, 
for instance, a lawyer. But  Ive looked at HSBCs terms and conditions and other 
communications in terms of whether they are clear, fair, and not misleading  which is what 
our role is. Also  we arent the regulator of HSBC  thats the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA)  and so we cant tell HSBC to change its terms and conditions, and 
website. But  we look at what we think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
When Mr A and Mrs A agreed to take the mortgage in 2018, they discussed with HSBCs 
mortgage adviser their intentions to make lump sum reductions to it after five years. And so 
 that was one of the reasons they took a fixed rate for the same period. I can see that the 
mortgage adviser, in her letter to Mr A and Mrs A dated 28 January 2018, said that an ERC 
would be payable if, before the end of the five year period, you make total overpayments 
that exceed your agreed annual overpayment allowance. And so  HSBC told Mr A and Mrs 
A about the allowance at the start.
Ive looked at the mortgage offer dated 12 February 2018  this says that an ERC of 1% is 
payable on the amount repaid early for each year of the Early Repayment Charge Period 
(the first year commencing on the date of drawdown and subsequent years on the 
anniversary of the date of drawdown).  It then says During the first year of the Early 
Repayment Charge Period, you may repay. without incurring an Early Repayment Charge, 
up to 10% of the amount of the loan which has been drawndown.  During the second and 
any subsequent years of the Early Repayment Charge Period, you may repay.without 
incurring an Early Repayment Charge, up to 10% of the amount of the loan outstanding at 
the start of that year without incurring an Early Repayment Charge.if you repay more than 
the 10% allowance in any of the years of the Early Repayment Charge Period, youll incur an 
Early Repayment Charge I noted that in the mortgage offer, the payments must be made 
during the year of the period in question  indicating that the allowance is for that year alone.
In the mortgage drawdown confirmation dated 27 March 2018, it says An Early Repayment 
Charge (ERC) applies to your mortgage up until 31 May 2023. youll have an annual 
overpayment allowance. This will be £10,000 in the first year of your mortgage..in 
subsequent years, it will be 10% of the outstanding balance of your mortgage calculated on 
the anniversary of drawdown.
Ive looked at HSBCs website. It says if you exceed your annual overpayment allowance, 
the ERC will be charged on the amount you have repaid over the allowance. I can also see 
that when Mr A and Mrs A went into their mortgage profile online in March 2021 - it showed: 
Overpayment details
The current overpayment year is from 28 March 2020
The current overpayment year is to 27 March 2021
Allowance remaining GBP9,200.78
Overpayment year opening balance  GBP92,007.78
Annual Allowance GBP9,200.78
Early repayment charge Expiry Date 31 May 2023
And so  taken in the round, considering HSBCs terms and conditions, their 
correspondence, their website and how they set out overpayments to customers - I think its clear. There is an annual overpayment allowance, and it starts again on the anniversary of 
the drawdown  in this case, 27 March each year. And  the overpayment year is quoted. I 
think the key point here is that it is called an annual allowance  indicating just that. It 
doesnt say its cumulative or can be rolled over  as Mr A and Mrs A say it can. 
I appreciate that Mr A and Mrs A argue that because HSBC dont state that it cannot be 
rolled over, then they can consider the annual allowance to be cumulative  and so they 
should now be allowed to repay £28,821.85 without paying an ERC. But I dont think that, in 
all fairness, we can expect HSBC to state what something isnt  when for me, its clear that 
the allowance is an annual, non-cumulative one. And so  I do not consider its reasonable 
to ask HSBC to allow Mr A and Mrs A to make a lump sum repayment for three years of the 
annual allowance as they wish to. I noted that they made a lump sum reduction of £9,199.78 
on 25 March 2021  which was within the annual overpayment allowance for the year to 27 
March 2021. 
And it follows that I dont think its fair either to decide that they should be awarded 
compensation for the time taken to bring their complaint forward  as Im not upholding it. I 
note that HSBC paid compensation of £70 to Mr A and Mrs A for the delay in making the 
overpayment between January 2021 and March 2021  while they answered their questions. 
But thats not relevant to the crux of this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman