DRN-2339825
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc breached the terms of a payment arrangement 
when it reduced his overdraft limit to £200.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 27 October 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained why I thought Mr Bs 
complaint should upheld and how HSBC should resolve it. I said: 
What happened
Mr B says that in April 2019 he entered a payment arrangement with HSBC whereby his
£360 overdraft limit would reduce by £30 a month for the next 12 months. Mr B made a 
payment of £30 on 31 August 2019 and has told us it was intended to cover the expected 
overdraft limit reduction from £240 to £210. But Mr B says he noticed that his bank 
statement said his overdraft limit had actually been reduced to £200.
Mr B raised the issue with HSBC and its response claimed it was unable to find where the 
overdraft limit had reduced to £200. HSBC confirmed no interest or charges had been 
incurred by Mr B and that the overdraft limit was £210. HSBCs response also said that it 
hadnt received Mr Bs September 2019 £30 payment. HSBC later advised that Mr Bs 
overdraft limit would remain at £210 until a new payment arrangement could be agreed.
Mr B says he went on to receive a letter from HSBC asking him to reduce his outstanding 
balance by £70, a figure that wasnt affordable.
HSBC has issued various responses to Mr Bs complaint but said it wasnt able to see 
where the overdraft limit had reduced to £200 as he claimed. HSBCs email on 30 October 
2019 said the payment arrangement had broken because the payment due on 1 October 
2019 hadnt been made on time.
Mr B referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
accepted that Mr Bs bank statement said the overdraft limit was £200 but didnt find that 
HSBCs actions had led to a financial loss as no fees or charges were incurred. Mr B 
asked to appeal and pointed out that HSBC still hadnt explained why his overdraft limit 
had reduced to £200 in September 2019 despite a pay arrangement that meant it should
have been £210.
I recently asked our investigator to send HSBC copies of Mr Bs September 2019 bank 
statements showing his overdraft limit was £200, not £210. I asked HSBC to explain the 
difference in the £210 overdraft limit it said was in place and the information on Mr Bs bank 
statement. In response, HSBC said it wasnt clear why the August/September 2019 bank 
statement showed an overdraft limit of £200. The case handler suggested the overdraft limit 
might have been wrong because Mr Bs September 2019 payment wasnt made. HSBC also 
confirmed it had taken the step of contacting the credit reference agencies to ensure no 
adverse information was reported.
As Mr B asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr B has become increasingly frustrated. He agreed a payment 
arrangement for his overdraft to reduce by £30 a month, to ensure it would be repaid in 
around a year. When Mr B found some confusing information on his bank statement that 
contradicted the terms of the payment arrangement, he asked HSBC reasonable 
questions. But, despite the length of time that has passed, HSBC still hasnt provided a 
clear explanation of what happened.
I recently asked HSBC to send us a copy of the letter it provided to Mr B confirming the 
details of his payment arrangement in April 2019. HSBC didnt provide a copy of the 
payment arrangement confirmation. But I can see that on 8 April 2019 Mr B made 
payments of £45 and £80 of charges were refunded. Mr B says the agreement was for his 
overdraft limit to reduce after he made £30 payments each month. Mr B made the following 
payments:
31 May 2019 £40
2 July 2019 £42.32 (after debits and credits are reconciled) 
31 July 2019 £35
31 August 2019 £30
7 October 2019 35
21 October 2019 £30
The balance currently stands at £209.11 and HSBC says Mr B will need to contact it to 
agree a new arrangement whereby the overdraft limit is reduced. Mr B says he made all 
his payments on time, but HSBC says the payment arrangement was broken when Mr B 
failed to make his September 2019 payment. As Ive said above, I wasnt sent the 
requested confirmation of the payment arrangement so I cant say for certain what 
payments Mr B was asked to make. But, Mr B says he always tried to pay slightly early to 
ensure the balance was right.
HSBCs systems notes say the first £30 reduction was due to happen on 10 June 2019. Mr 
B says his 31 May 2019 payment was made in anticipation of that. On 2 July 2019 Mr B 
made a payment for the planned reduction on 8 July 2019. On 31 July 2019 Mr B paid £35 
to cover the reduction on 5 August 2019. On 31 August 2019 Mr B made a payment of £30 
in anticipation of the reduction to £210 on 2 September 2019.
Based on the above, it appears to me that Mr B did make all his payments before the 
scheduled reductions in his overdraft limit. Whilst the October 2019 payment was made a 
little later, I think that reflects Mr Bs ongoing enquiries and concerns that he mad n to
HSBC at that time. And that payment doesnt relate to the issues raised by Mr B.
Mr B has consistently asked why his overdraft limit was reduced to £200 and HSBC has 
consistently denied that it did. I can see how frustrating this was for Mr B, no one wants to 
keep asking the same question. I agree with Mr B, I think HSBC should be able to explain 
why the payment arrangement and overdraft limit on his statement didnt match. HSBCs 
complaint handler recently suggested that it was due to a failure by Mr B to make a 
payment for September 2019. But, as Ive said above, Im not persuaded Mr Bs payment 
arrangement had failed when the statement was issued. And, whilst I note the case handlers comments, I think its reasonable to say the explanation provided is an 
assumption theyve made, rather than something they can verify with evidence. I also think 
its reasonable to say that if what the case handler says is true, that information should 
have been given to Mr B when he first asked.
Overall, I havent been persuaded that HSBC has dealt with this case fairly or provided 
clear responses to the questions Mr B asked. Even if Mr B had failed a payment 
arrangement, HSBC shouldve been able to tell him that when he contacted it. Instead, 
HSBC repeatedly told Mr B his overdraft limit was £210 when its bank statement said it 
was £200. Overall, Im satisfied this has caused an unreasonable amount of distress and 
inconvenience for Mr B.
There hasnt been a financial loss to the account because no fees or charges have 
been applied. And HSBC has confirmed that no adverse information has been reported 
to the credit reference agencies either.
Ive considered all the available evidence and I think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. 
Whilst there hasnt been a financial loss, I think HSBC has added confusion to an unclear 
situation and failed to explain the differences Mr B highlighted. I can see this has caused 
Mr B considerable annoyance. Mr B has the option of contacting HSBC to agree a further 
payment arrangement. I think HSBCs actions have caused unnecessary confusion and 
frustration to Mr B. As a result, I intend to uphold this complaint and direct it to pay him 
£150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I invited both Mr B and HSBC to respond with any further comments they wanted me to take 
into account before I issued my final decision. HSBC responded and confirmed it accepted. 
Mr B responded to say he wasnt sent a letter confirming the payment arrangement terms 
and that he thought the payments were always due on the same day each month. Mr B 
didnt say whether he accepted or not. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr B and HSBC for responding. As I said in my provisional decision, the 
terms of the payment arrangement werent confirmed by HSBC. It said the overdraft limit 
reduced each month by £30 but wasnt able to provide a copy of anything explaining the 
process to Mr B. Ive factored that in when making my decision. 
Ive considered Mr Bs new comments, along with the original case file. Having done so, I 
remain of the view that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld and that HSBC should pay him 
£150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr B £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Marco ManenteOmbudsman