DRN-3191799
The complaint
Mr M has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him an 
Advantage Gold packaged bank account in September 2000. Mr M has explained that he 
was told that he had to take out the Advantage Gold account in order to get a personal loan.
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and they didnt think that NatWest had mis-
sold the packaged account. Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at this 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to decide what to do about this complaint. Having looked at all 
the information provided, I dont think that NatWest mis-sold the packaged account. Id like to 
explain the reasons for my decision.
 
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr M was given a clear choice in taking the Advantage 
Gold account. At this point, it may help for me to explain that I have to make my decision 
based on what I think is more likely than not to have happened, having weighed up what 
both parties have been able to provide me with. 
Mr M upgraded from a free account, so I think that he wouldve been aware that NatWest 
generally offered free accounts and that they were an option for him. Mr M has said that he 
thought that he had to take out the account in order to get a personal loan and it does 
appear that he did take out a loan at the time. But I can see that he had held loans prior to 
this upgrade, so I think in general he wouldve been aware that personal loans were 
available whilst holding a fee-free account.
Given how long ago this event occurred we have limited information as to what exactly the 
benefits were on an Advantage Gold account in 2000. That said, from what information we 
do have, it does appear that one of the benefits of the account at the time was preferential 
rates on borrowing, such as personal loans and overdraft facilities. So overall I think what Mr 
M may recall is that taking out the account would allow him to obtain a better rate on a 
personal loan that he intended to take out at the time of the sale, rather than he needed to 
have it to get the loan in the first instance. Overall, albeit on balance, I am satisfied that Mr M 
was given a fair choice to take out the Advantage Gold account.
This sale was not carried out on an advised basis, so NatWest did not have to ensure the 
account was right for Mr M at the time it was sold. That said, it did need to give Mr M enough 
information about the account so he could decide this for himself. I believe the main benefits 
at the time were discounts on borrowing. So I think its likely that this feature of the account 
wouldve been highlighted to him to make the account seem attractive. I also cant see 
anything specific that Mr M was not told that wouldve changed his decision to agree to the 
account. So overall there is not enough for me to say that this account was sold incorrectly.
I understand that this will be disappointing for Mr M and I understand that with hindsight he 
may feel that he has paid a lot of money over the years for this account and has not derived 
much benefit from holding it. But just because Mr M may now feel that it has been poor value 
for money does not mean that the account was sold incorrectly in the first place.
So while I want to reassure Mr M that I have carefully looked at all the information provided 
and thought about everything that has been said, I dont think that NatWest mis-sold the 
packaged account. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman