The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Help Your Claim Limited (HYC) are charging him for a successful claim 
for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) when he didnt receive any compensation.
What happened
Mr M instructed HYC to make a claim for mis-sold PPI against Lender N. The claim was 
successful, and Mr M was awarded compensation. But, because Mr M had previously been 
in an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA), Lender N offset the compensation against the 
IVA debt.
Mr M has complained that HYC have invoiced him for their success fee on the claim against 
Lender N, even though he didnt receive any compensation. 
Our investigator said that, at the time Mr M instructed them, HYCs terms and conditions only 
referred to a fee being payable on compensation received. And because Mr M didnt receive 
any compensation, then he didnt think any fee was due.
The investigator also said that HYC had since changed their terms to include that their fee 
would be payable if compensation was used to offset arrears or other debt. But, because this 
wasnt in the terms Mr M agreed to, HYC couldnt rely on this to charge a fee.
HYC didnt agree with the investigator. They say the claim was successful, and Mr M 
benefitted from this by a reduction in his debt. And they say Mr M wouldve been told, by the 
sales advisor he spoke to on the phone, that the fee would still be due if the compensation 
was used to offset arrears. So theyve asked that an ombudsman make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that, on 16 February 2015, Mr M signed to say he agreed to HYCs terms and 
conditions. With respect to the fee, these terms and conditions say:
On success of your claim, HYC will charge a 30% fee + VAT on all amounts received. Our 
charges apply to the total value of the compensation received.
While the terms give an explanation as to how the fee would be calculated if you receive a 
settlement figure of £1000, it doesnt give three separate examples; including what fee 
would be payable if part or all of the compensation was used to offset arrears/debt. Its my 
understanding that this was a regulatory requirement at the time. 
DRN-1920735And the terms make no other reference to what would happen if any compensation was 
offset. Nor do they explain what they mean by Compensation. So, from the terms he agreed 
to, Mr M would reasonably have only expected to pay a fee on any compensation he 
physically received from Lender N.
HYC have since updated their terms. They now define Compensation to mean any one or 
a combination of the following: a cash refund paid directly to you; a reduction of your credit 
balance; a reduction in your arrears, Debt Management Plan (DMP) or Individual Voluntary 
Agreement (IVA) Please note our fee is still payable if this applies to your claim.
HYC wouldnt have needed to update their terms to include this definition of Compensation if 
the existing terms were clear that it included anything used to offset arrears/debt. So, in 
doing so, they accept the terms Mr M signed were deficient in some way. But an update to 
their terms doesnt mean that these apply to Mr M. Hes only bound by the terms he agreed 
to. And these dont say that HYCs fee is still payable if the compensation is used to offset 
any arrears/debt.
HYC have said they verbally advised Mr M their fee would be due in these circumstances, 
when he spoke to their sales advisor. But they cant provide a copy of this call due to the 
time thats passed since the call took place. However they say that, if Mr M wasnt told this, it 
wouldve been picked up in an audit and flagged on his file. And it wasnt.
Given the time passed I wouldnt expect the call to be available. But I dont accept that a 
non-adherence to a sales script not being flagged in an audit is proof of what Mr M was told. 
Ive not seen any evidence to show me this call was even audited. But even if Mr M had 
been told this (and Im not convinced he was) it wasnt included in the terms he agreed to. 
And its these terms that define when a fee is payable, not what may or may not have been 
discussed in an earlier telephone conversation.
Putting things right
Because the terms and conditions Mr M agreed to dont make it clear that their fee is still 
payable if any compensation is used to offset any arrears/debts; then HYC arent entitled to 
charge him a fee in these circumstances.
So HYC should waive their outstanding fee for Mr Ms claim against Lender N and waive any 
fees theyve added to this for non-payment.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Ms complaint. Help Your Claim Limited must 
follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman