DRN-1579895
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2002. Mr D couldnt remember 
all the details, but Barclays told us its records showed that hed taken out his credit card and 
the PPI in one of its branches.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with our adjudicator.
Mr Ds main complaint is that he didnt know he had PPI. He said that Barclays failed to 
make him aware PPI was optional and he didn't understand what it was for. Mr D told us he 
didn't need the policy as he had other ways to pay his credit card if he wasnt able to work.  
Mr D has asked for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Heres why I say this.
I think Barclays made Mr D aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. I 
dont know what mightve been discussed about the PPI. But the application Mr D completed 
to obtain his credit card made it clear that it was up to him to say if he also wanted PPI. The 
form had Yes and No options for PPI. So Mr D wouldve known it was up to him to say if 
he wanted to have PPI  or not. 
And I can see the Yes box is marked on the form Mr D signed. So, I think its likely he 
decided at the time that PPI would be useful and he chose to add it to his Barclaycard.   
I can understand why Mr D has forgotten now as this was a long time ago. But I think its 
likely that Mr D wouldve been able to see at the time that the application form showed that 
having the PPI was optional - and he chose to take it, signing the completed application at 
the end to confirm the information on the form.  
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Mr D. If a business makes a recommendation 
about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has 
to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. So, although 
Mr D couldnt remember if the policy had been recommended to him, looking at his 
complaint this way gives it the best chance of success.Mr D was eligible for the policy. There were some things the policy didnt cover but it doesnt 
look as if those applied in Mr Ds case when he took out his credit card. So, I dont think 
having more information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve put him off taking it 
out. 
Mr D had some sick pay entitlement through work  he told us he couldve relied on getting 
at least 6 months full sick pay. But the policy wouldve paid more than his minimum credit 
card repayments for longer - up to 12 months per claim in the event of accident or sickness  
on top of any work benefits. Bearing in mind that Mr D mightve also had some additional 
costs if he was too unwell to go back to work or disabled, I think this couldve been a useful 
benefit at a difficult time. 
And the policy wouldve also protected Mr Ds credit card repayments if he lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work.
Ive taken into account comments Mr D made about his job security and I accept he mightnt 
have had any reason to think hed have faced much difficulty finding a new job if he was 
made unemployed. But the policy wouldve protected him if he was disabled or too sick to 
work as well. And the healthcare insurance arranged through his employer sounds like it 
wouldve paid out in different circumstances and it provided a different sort of cover to PPI 
that covered his credit card monthly repayments.
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Mr D mentioned having savings he couldve relied on  but the PPI wouldve paid out for 
longer than the amount of savings hes mentioned wouldve lasted if hed had to depend on 
these to cover his monthly outgoings (even on top of his sick pay). And I dont know if he 
wouldve always had savings he could depend on to make his monthly repayments  it looks 
like Mr D had some money problems later on and found it difficult to keep up the agreed 
repayments on his credit card. So what hes told me about his savings isn't enough on its 
own to change my overall view. 
I dont know if Barclays properly explained what the policy would cost, or what it might pay 
out if Mr D made a claim. But even if he hadnt fully appreciated how much PPI would 
actually cost on a month to month basis, Mr D chose to take out the policy when he didnt 
have to  so he seems to have wanted it. The policy appears to have been affordable for him 
when he took it out  and he couldve cancelled it at any time if his circumstances changed 
or he didnt want to keep paying for it. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered him, I think it unlikely Mr D wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think hed still have 
taken out the policy.
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr D, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 Mr D has told us that he didnt make a claim on the insurance when he was unable to work. 
This information doesnt affect my decision. And I dont know what those circumstances 
were or when this happened. But if he was covered by the policy at the time and thinks he 
couldve made a claim on it, he may wish to approach the insurer to see if it would be 
prepared to accept and consider a retrospective claim. If he does so and finds that he has 
concerns in this regard, then he should first tell the insurer why hes unhappy. And if hes 
unable to reach a satisfactory conclusion, he may be able to bring a complaint relating to the 
retrospective claim to this Service as a separate matter. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman