DRN-3147044
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about problems hes had with a car supplied under a hire-purchase 
agreement by Advantage Finance Ltd.
What happened
Mr C entered into a hire purchase agreement with Advantage so he could get a car. The car 
was around ten years old at the time, with a cash price of £3,448. As I understand it, the car 
had covered around 96,000 miles, though there is some dispute over the accuracy of the 
recorded mileage.
Unfortunately, soon after taking delivery Mr C began to experience problems with the car. He 
reports warning lights and handling problems that prompted him to take the car to a number 
of third party garages, who identified fault codes and work that needed to be carried out. 
One of the garages, K, undertook work at Mr Cs expense, servicing the car and replacing 
tyres and the battery, as well as indicating other items that needed attention.
Mr C was unhappy with the position and at being told these matters werent covered by the 
warranty hed taken out. He queried matters with Advantage and the dealer that originally 
sourced the vehicle. Advantage instructed S, an independent engineer, to inspect the car 
and compile a report. S concluded that most of the problems Mr C experienced were in line 
with the cars age and general condition, rather than inherent faults at the point of supply. It 
did, however, consider that a partially blocked diesel particulate filter (DPF) was causing a 
loss of power and was most likely present when the car was supplied. The dealer 
compensated Mr C £250 to cover the cost of rectifying that problem.
Mr C disagreed with Ss analysis. He felt the car was defective and referenced further 
problems with the vehicles transmission and the alarm. He also questioned the recorded 
mileage. He sought to return the car, have the hire-purchase cancelled and Advantage to 
reimburse his costs, including replacement car hire.
Advantage didnt agree with Mr Cs complaint. It said S had carried out another inspection. 
That found that the alarm issue was likely linked to the recently replaced battery, and that 
the transmission problem was consistent with age-related wear and tear rather than an issue 
of satisfactory quality. Advantage noted that following the DPF clean the dealer had carried 
out further repairs at no charge to Mr C. But Mr C had declined to collect the car, which 
Advantage arranged to return to him, again at no charge.
Advantage also concluded that Mr C had supplied no supporting evidence of the mileage 
discrepancy he had asserted. Overall it concluded that  together with the dealer  it had 
addressed its obligations under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA2015) and had no 
liability for the other problems or costs Mr C had cited with the car.
Our investigator wasnt minded to recommend upholding Mr Cs complaint. He felt it was 
reasonable for Advantage to base its position on Ss expert reports. These indicated that the 
faults Mr C had didnt amount to a failure to supply a car of satisfactory quality as required 
under the CRA2015. The investigator noted Mr C had driven nearly 3,500 miles in the four 
months hed had the car, which suggested hed had reasonable use of it, before the 
transmission issue arose. The repair costs did show thered been problems with the car, but 
the investigator felt that wasnt unusual given its age and mileage.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators conclusions, so the matter has been passed to me for 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage supplied the car to Mr C under a hire-purchase agreement. As such, Advantage 
carries responsibility for ensuring the car was, at point of supply, of satisfactory quality as 
required under the CRA2015. Advantage acknowledged it had a potential liability in this 
respect. Indeed, it instructed S to carry out more than one inspection in response to the 
problems Mr C pointed out.
Im satisfied it was reasonable for Advantage to instruct S, who appears to be independent 
and suitably qualified to carry out car inspection. S provided detailed reports setting out his 
professional opinion in relation to the issues Mr C identified. I acknowledge Mr C has 
provided reports from third party garages, which speak to the nature of those issues and the 
work carried out. I dont find that those reports contradict the evidence in Ss inspection 
reports, which go further than identifying the problems by offering opinion as to the 
underlying reasons for the issues. I see no reason why Advantage should not be entitled to 
rely on the content of Ss reports. Similarly, I consider I can rely on those reports in 
determining this complaint.
In defining satisfactory quality, the CRA2015 refers to goods that meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking account of [matters including] any 
description of the goods [and] the price or any other consideration It goes on to mention 
matters such as appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
Theres no question here that the car supplied to Mr C required work. But it doesnt 
automatically follow that because a number of items need attention or replacing on a car, the 
car itself is not of satisfactory quality as defined in the CRA2015. I sympathise with Mr C, 
who I dont doubt has had to pay out a good deal of money on work that needed doing to the 
car. But based on the reports compiled by S, much of the work that needed doing on the car 
seems to fall into the sort of expenditure one might reasonably expect to have to undertake 
on a ten-year old car, priced as it was, that had covered over 90,000 miles. The fact the car 
was in need of a service, replacement tyres and a battery, for example, fell into this category 
according to Ss expert opinion.
Theres nothing to suggest the dealer gave an undertaking to service the car or that, for 
instance, it was described as not needing new tyres. Nor is it apparent that items such as the 
tyres or battery were recently replaced and failed prematurely. And S concluded that the 
transmission problem was down to wear and tear from age, rather than being inherently 
defective. So I dont think Advantage has treated Mr C unfairly by declining to accept all of 
the problems he mentioned as evidence the car was not of satisfactory quality.
Based on the definition in the CRA2015, the issue with the DPF would seem to fall short of 
the standard required to be of satisfactory quality. That has already been acknowledged, 
however, and a repair carried out, with the dealer reimbursing Mr Cs costs. If it hadnt done 
so, it might well have fallen to Advantage to pay for this repair. But as this matter has been 
addressed and rectified, its not necessary for me to require Advantage to take any action in this respect.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here, my final decision is that Advantage Finance Ltd doesnt 
need to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman