DRN-4135715
The complaint
Miss S complains that the car she acquired via a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) was not of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
Miss S acquired a car from Moneybarn in July 2022. The car at the time she acquired it was 
around ten years old and had travelled around 85,000 miles. She began to have problems 
with the car in December 2022 and paid for the turbo hose and fuel injectors to be replaced. 
Around the same time, she paid for the alternator to be replaced. 
She was still concerned the car wasnt working correctly, so she arranged for the car to be 
looked at by a main dealership, who confirmed that the DPF filter needed to be cleaned and 
refitted, and also that the clutch would need replacing. 
Miss S paid for these repairs, but in the meantime she had raised a complaint with 
Moneybarn in December 2022 about the quality of the car, asking to reject the car.
Moneybarn issued their final response letter (FRL) in February 2023 and did not uphold the 
complaint. They said that the issues she was complaining about were wear and tear items, 
and as she had been able to drive the car for several months and done around 5,000 miles 
since she took possession of the car, they didnt agree that the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality when it had been supplied. 
Unhappy with this, Miss S brought her complaint to our service. The investigator here who 
investigated the case did not uphold it. They felt that the items that needed repairs had most 
likely reached the end of their normal lifespan, and so said as these were wear and tear 
items reaching the end of their life, they couldnt agree that the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality. 
Miss S didnt agree with this view and asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss S was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to investigate complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Moneybarn are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Moneybarn can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Miss S to show it was present when the 
car was supplied. 
Moneybarn have said that the issues Miss S had with the car were not faults, but normal 
wear and tear which had occurred due to the age and mileage of the car. They highlighted 
that she had driven the car for four to five months and covered around 5,000 miles before 
these issues occurred, so they were satisfied that the car was of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied. 
Ive considered each of the issues Miss S suffered in turn. 
Initially, the first problem fixed was replacing a turbo hose. This part can need replacing 
every two to four years, and is a perishable item, so I am satisfied this was a wear and tear 
part. As such, having been able to drive the vehicle for several months and 5,000 miles, I 
think the hose has most likely reached the end of its lifespan and needed replacing at that 
point.
The next item repaired/replaced was a fuel injector. The average lifespan for fuel injectors is 
between 50,000 to 100,000 miles. Im satisfied that having been able to drive the car for 
5,000 miles after acquiring it, this unfortunately is another wear and tear part which has 
reached the end of its lifespan while Miss S has had the car. 
There is some confusion regarding an alternator, which Miss S has provided an invoice 
showing she paid the labour for it to be replaced, but we havent seen an invoice for the part 
itself. Moneybarn have discussed it in their FRL, so I will answer this as well. 
Again, this part has a natural lifespan of up to 100,000 miles, and the exact lifespan depends 
on how the car has been driven and maintained. As the car has travelled 90,000 miles by the 
time this appears to have failed and needed replacing, I am satisfied that it has reached the 
end of its natural lifespan and needed replacing through wear and tear, and this doesnt 
show a fault which makes the car of unsatisfactory quality. 
Then after taking the car to a main dealership to be investigated, Miss S paid for the DPF 
filter to be cleaned. A DPF filter probably has a lifespan of again, around 100,000 miles. 
Even within this time however, it can need specialist cleaning, depending on driving style 
and the type of driving being undertaken. So again, I think this cleaning required is part of 
the normal wear and tear and maintenance required for a car, and I cant agree that this is a 
fault which makes the car of unsatisfactory quality, or that it was present or developing at the 
point the car was supplied to Miss S. 
The final issue raised was the clutch failing. The normal lifespan of a clutch is anything from 
30,000 miles to 100,000 miles depending on driving style. The average tends to be around 
60,000 miles. With no evidence of the clutch having been replaced previously, this falls into 
the wear and tear category, whereby it has unfortunately also reached the end of its normal 
lifespan a few months after Miss S has acquired the car. I cant agree that this could have been developing or present at point of sale, as Miss S was able to travel 5,000 miles in the 
car before it failed. 
All of the issues suffered by Miss S arent issues which show the car was not of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. The car would not have functioned normally for 5,000 miles after 
supply if these issues were present or developing when the car was supplied. 
Unfortunately, with older and higher mileage cars, parts can begin to wear out and reach the 
end of their natural life relatively soon after the car is acquired. Im sorry for Miss S that she 
seems to have had a period whereby several parts have needed replacing four to five 
months after she acquired the car. 
But all the problems she has had and the repairs shes had carried out relate to wear and 
tear parts which have unfortunately reached the end of their normal lifespan a few months 
after Miss S has acquired the car. 
As such, I cant agree that these were faults that were developing or present at the point the 
car was supplied to Miss S, and which make the car of unsatisfactory quality. I wont be 
asking Moneybarn to do anything further. 
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 October 2023.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman