DRN-2797630
The complaint
Mrs C has complained about the advice she was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited (an
Appointed Representative of Alexander David Securities Limited) to transfer her pension to a
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
What happened
The background to the complaint was set out by the investigator in his assessment, a copy 
of which was sent to both parties. In brief, Mrs C had said St Pauls Marketing contacted her 
and offered her a pension review. She was in her mid-fifties and she had a personal pension 
plan with a well-known pension provider. The investigator understood St Pauls Marketing 
had provided Mrs C with promotional material relating to the investment in debentures 
issued by Just Loans. 
Mrs C subsequently opened a SIPP and the value of her personal pension of £56,285 was 
transferred to it in April 2016. A stockbroking account was set up and the majority of the 
money was transferred to it and invested in Just Loans debentures.
Mrs C, through her representative, subsequently complained to Alexander David Securities 
Limited in March 2020. It said Mrs C had been contacted by St Pauls Marketing regarding a 
pension review. And it had advised her to transfer her personal pension to a SIPP as the 
pension transfer would be more beneficial. It said the advice was unsuitable because at the 
time Mrs C was retired and her annual income was between £0 - £10,000. She had no 
previous investment experience or knowledge of financial markets. And she couldnt afford 
to lose the money in her SIPP; she had a low capacity for loss and low attitude to risk. It said 
a SIPP was unsuitable for Mrs C.
I understand Alexander David didnt acknowledge or respond to the complaint. The 
representative subsequently referred it to us. Our investigator asked Alexander David for its 
files and to provide any other evidence it wanted us to take into account. However, no files 
or evidence or arguments were received.
The investigator said that from the information provided he thought it was likely that St Pauls 
Marketing had recommended the investment to Mrs C. He noted that Alexander David hadnt 
disputed this. He said that given Mrs Cs circumstances as described by her representative, 
she wasnt the type of investor that was suited to this higher risk investment.
The investigator said that St Pauls Marketing had also arranged the investment. He said 
COBS 10 applied (Conduct of Business Rules). It said:
This chapter applies to a firm which arranges or deals in relation to a non-readily realisable 
security, derivative, or a warrant with or for a retail client and the firm is aware, or ought to 
have been aware, that the application or order is in response to direct offer financial 
promotion.
He said COBS 10..2.1 provided:
(1) When providing a service to which this chapter applies, a firm must ask the client to 
provide information regarding his knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant 
to the specific type of product or service offered or demanded so as to enable the firm to 
assess whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate for the client.
(2) When assessing appropriateness, a firm must determine whether the client has the
necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in relation to 
the product or service offered or demanded
The investigator said he didnt think it likely that Mrs C was an experienced investor and that 
if it wasnt for St Pauls Marketings involvement it was unlikely that she would have gone 
ahead with the investment.
The investigator also noted one of the Regulators strategic objectives was to protect 
consumers, and its rules reflected this objective. He said the Principles required St Pauls 
Marketing to, amongst other things, pay due regard to its customers interests and treat them 
fairly, and take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and discretionary 
decisions for any customer who was entitled to rely upon its judgment. The investigator said 
he didnt think that St Pauls Marketing had followed these Principles - if it had it wouldnt 
have recommended the investment to Mrs C.
The investigator sent his view of the complaint to Alexander David. But it didnt respond. He 
wrote to both parties on 28 April 2021 to say the complaint would be passed to an 
ombudsman.. No further evidence or arguments were provided by Alexander David. Mrs Cs 
representative said it thought that compensation should be calculated by reference to the 
notional value of Mrs C ceding scheme rather than a benchmark, as this provided the fairest 
comparison if a transfer hadnt been made. It also didnt think compensation should be 
capped at the date of reinvestment, as although Mrs C re-invested without taking further 
advice she wouldnt have invested but for the involvement of St Pauls Marketing and her 
money wouldnt be invested at high risk.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Alexander David didnt respond to Mrs Cs original complaint or to the investigators requests 
for information. So theres only very limited evidence available to establish what happened at 
the time of the transfer and investment. 
Ive carefully considered the evidence that is available. The investigator set out his thoughts 
on the matter in his assessment, and Alexander David hasnt disputed what he said or 
provided any further evidence or arguments.
Im satisfied, on the balance of the evidence that is available, that St Pauls Marketing was 
involved from the outset and following its input Mrs C transferred her pension to the SIPP 
and invested in the debentures. In my experience its unusual for someone of Mrs Cs 
background and experience to want to transfer an existing pension in order to invest in this 
type of investment without prompting. I think it was unlikely to have happened without the 
involvement of St Pauls Marketing. Im satisfied that it initiated the transfer and investment in 
the debentures. It was aware of where the investment was going to be made and facilitated 
it. 
When Mrs C complained to Alexander David she said it had advised her to transfer her 
pension. The investigator said he thought St Pauls Marketing had recommended the investment to Mrs C. The firm hasnt disputed this. In all the circumstances and on the 
balance of the limited evidence thats available, I think its more likely than not that St Pauls 
Marketing did advise Mrs C to transfer and invest in the debentures. And given the 
significant risks presented by the investment, I dont think it was suitable for Mrs C in her 
circumstances, particularly given she had a modest income, has said that she was a low risk 
taker with no capacity for loss and had no investment experience. 
However, even if St Pauls Marketing didnt give advice to Mrs C, I think the evidence shows 
it was involved in arranging the transaction. The debentures were a non-readily realisable 
security.  COBS 10 required St Pauls Marketing to assess Mrs Cs knowledge and 
experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of product or service offered 
or demand so that it could assess whether the debentures were appropriate for her.
Mrs C said she had little investment experience and Alexander David hasnt disputed this.  
The debentures presented significant risks. In my view they werent appropriate for Mrs C 
given her knowledge and experience and this should have been clear to St Pauls Marketing.
Taking all the circumstances of the transaction into account, I think it was clear that the
debentures werent suitable or appropriate for Mrs C. Like the investigator, I also dont think
the firm met its obligations under the regulators Principles for Business, in particular that it
didnt pay due regard to the interests of Mrs C and treat her fairly, or take reasonable care to 
ensure the suitability of its advice as I think Mrs C was entitled to rely on its judgment.
Im satisfied that if St Pauls Marketing hadnt advised Mrs C to transfer and invest in the 
debentures, or if it had told her they werent suitable or appropriate for her, she wouldnt 
have transferred and invested in them.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls Marketings failures caused Mrs C to transfer and 
invest in a product that she would otherwise not have invested into. Im satisfied its failures 
caused the losses that Mrs C has claimed.
Putting things right
fair compensation 
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mrs C as close as possible 
to the position she would probably now be in but for St Pauls Marketings failures. I think Mrs 
C would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what she would have 
done, but Im satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mrs Cs 
circumstances and objectives when she invested. 
what should Alexander David do? 
To compensate Mrs C fairly Alexander David Limited should compare the performance of     
Mrs Cs investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If the fair value is greater than 
the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater 
than the fair value, no compensation is payable. 
Alexander David Securities Limited should also pay any interest as set out below. If there is 
a loss, Alexander David Securities Limited should pay into Mrs Cs pension plan to increase 
its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander David Securities Limited 
shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.If Alexander David Securities Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs Cs 
pension plan it should pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the 
plan it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The 
notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs Cs actual or expected marginal rate of 
tax at her selected retirement age. 
I think Mrs C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at her selected retirement age, so the 
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs C would have been able 
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
investment 
name status Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate of 
transferDate of 
reinvest
ment - 
12 
January 
2021The same benchmark 
on the loss calculated 
as at 12 January 2021 
to decision date. Then 
8% simple a
year from date
of decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement isnt
made within
28 days of
Alexander
David being
notified of
Mrs Cs
acceptance of
this decision
In addition, Alexander David Securities Limited should: 
Pay Mrs C £100 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter has 
caused her. 
Provide details of the calculation to Mrs C in a clear, simple format. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities 
Limited considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs C how much it has taken off. It should also give 
Mrs C a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Actual value 
This means the actual transfer value of the SIPP at the end date (the date of re-investment).Fair value 
This is what the sum transferred from the pension provider plus any charges incurred on 
transfer would have been worth at the end date had it grown in line with the benchmark. 
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value calculation from the 
point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of 
the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases 
to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on.
Why is this remedy suitable? 
Mrs Cs circumstances were consistent with someone who only had limited capacity for risk. 
And in her complaint Mrs C has said she was a low risk taker.
Mrs Cs representative has said that it thinks compensation should be calculated against the 
notional value of Mrs Cs ceding scheme. However given Mrs C has said she was a low risk 
taker I think the benchmark provides a closer reflection of her appetite for risk. I dont know 
exactly how she would have invested.  But I think the index I have outlined above is an 
appropriate benchmark and is a reasonable proxy for the level of risk that Mrs C was willing 
and able to take. 
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mrs Cs risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was only prepared 
to take a limited risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would 
reasonably put Mrs C into that position. 
It doesnt mean that Mrs C would have invested 50% in some kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather I consider this is a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort 
of return Mrs C could have obtained from investments suited to her objectives and risk 
attitude. 
The investigator recommended that fair compensation be calculated as at 12 January 2021, 
the date that Mrs C decided to reinvest into the Just Loans Debentures. I think this is fair 
given Mrs C had made her decision to reinvest her money having already raised concerns 
about the suitability of the original advice to invest. In the circumstances I dont think its fair 
to hold Alexander David Securities Limited responsible for any losses arising from the re-
investment. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint.I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mrs C as I 
have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman