DRN-3487231
The complaint
Miss M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has been unable to trace or return a payment 
she made.
What happened
Miss M says she made a payment of £20,000 to an account in Morocco in July 2021. She 
says the beneficiary didnt receive the money and so asked Barclays to trace the payment. 
Miss M says Barclays hasnt done enough to find or trace the money and says she has 
evidence that the beneficiary didnt receive it. She says she has asked the beneficiarys bank 
in Morocco to assist and it says it cant trace the money using Barclays various references. 
Miss M would like her money refunded.
Barclays says it has tried to help Miss M and has made a request to recall the money. It says 
the intermediary bank it used in Morocco has confirmed the money was sent to the 
beneficiarys bank. Barclays says it has made numerous recall and trace requests as well as 
attempting other communication methods such as e-mail.
Miss M brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and 
thought Barclays had tried to recall the money using the correct request method. The 
investigator thought Barclays had done what it could to assist Miss M.
Miss M doesnt accept that view and in summary questions why the beneficiarys bank in 
Morocco would say it cant trace the money using Barclays references and why it says it 
hasnt received the requests. She questions why Barclays cant contact the other bank by 
other methods.
I asked Barclays for further information and it has confirmed the recall messages it sent were 
received by the beneficiarys bank.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Miss M will be disappointed by my decision and that she will have many 
unanswered questions about the whereabouts of her money. I also make clear to Miss M 
that I have summarised her complaint points but confirm I have read her detailed 
submissions to us. 
I accept that Miss M has not received her money back and that she is clearly concerned and 
frustrated by this situation. But I have to consider the actions of Barclays and decide if it 
made a mistake or treated Miss M unfairly.
Im satisfied that Miss M made the payment to the beneficiary in Morocco and that having 
looked at Barclays records am satisfied it correctly processed the payment. I can see that 
Barclays used an intermediary bank, which is standard practice for such payments. And I 
can see evidence on Barclays records that the intermediary bank has confirmed the 
payment was sent to the beneficiarys bank. So, Im satisfied Barclays followed Miss Ms 
instructions and have not seen any evidence that it made a mistake in doing so. I cant hold 
Barclays responsible for what then may have happened to the money in those 
circumstances.
I appreciate Miss M says the beneficiary didnt receive the money and I have seen copy 
account statements from the time period which confirms that. But that doesnt mean that 
Barclays is responsible for that, as I have made clear Im satisfied the money was sent and 
appears to have been received by the beneficiarys bank.
Im satisfied that in these sorts of circumstances the correct approach would be to attempt a 
recall of the money. I am sure that Miss M appreciates that there can be no guarantee of 
success and any attempt is always on a best endeavour basis. Im satisfied that Barclays 
has sent a number of recall requests following the standard method of doing so. I can also 
see that Barclays attempted e-mail contact in addition. But I have not seen any evidence of 
e-mails being returned and I asked Barclays to confirm if the recall messages were received, 
which it says were. So, Im satisfied that Barclays has done what its able to do in trying to 
recall the payment and has made a number of attempts, using alternative methods.
I appreciate Miss M questions if Barclays could do more to find her money. And I have made 
clear that Im satisfied it has done what it can in these circumstances, and I hope will 
continue to do.
I accept that this decision doesnt provide the outcome Miss M would like. But I can only 
consider the actions of Barclays here and having done so Im satisfied that it hasnt made a 
mistake. And has done what it can to try and assist Miss M in the return of the money. I find 
this now brings an end to what we, in trying to resolve this dispute informally, can do to 
resolve this dispute.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman