DRN-3726394
The complaint
Mr P complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) only offered a 
refurbished replacement phone, following a claim under his gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
In March 2022, Mr P purchased a phone. A few weeks later the phone was stolen, and Mr P 
made a claim with Assurant. The claim was accepted, and Mr P paid the policy excess of 
£100. Mr P said that it was after he had paid the excess that he found out that the 
replacement phone would be a remanufactured (not brand new) phone. 
Mr P told the claims handler that he did not want a remanufactured phone, given that the 
stolen phone was new. He also said that at no time was he made aware that a replacement 
phone would be remanufactured. He believed that this should have been highlighted on his 
annual eligibility statement, although he accepted that it was in the policy terms and 
conditions, that had been issued to him several years ago. So, he raised a complaint to 
Assurant, as he wanted a cash settlement to the value of the lost phone. 
In its final response, Assurant said that in line with the policy terms and conditions, it advised 
Mr P that any replacement device it sent to him, may be refurbished. So, there was nothing 
further it could do in relation to this. It also said that there had been some poor customer 
issues during the claim and for those it apologised. It paid Mr P a total of £85 for the trouble 
and upset caused. And gave Mr P his referral rights. 
Mr P was still unhappy by the outcome and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said that 
Assurant had on a few occasions in the terms and conditions made it clear that it might 
replace the phone with a remanufactured (not a brand new) phone. She concluded that it 
was reasonable for Assurant to refuse a cash settlement as the terms and conditions were 
clear and fair, and in line with industry standards.
Assurant accepted the view, Mr P did not. He said that Assurant had failed to highlight that 
the replacement phone would be a remanufactured phone, in his annual eligibility statement. 
He said that he hadnt received any policy document in excess of 104 pages and wasnt 
aware of the terms and conditions that our investigator referred him to. He believed that the 
mobile phone offered as settlement of any claim may be a remanufactured phone. As such 
it can only be assumed by the policyholder that a brand new mobile phone will be offered 
as a replacement. And he felt that the documentation given to him by Assurant wasnt clear 
or fair or in accordance with industry standards. So, he asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. I understand that this might be a 
disappointment to Mr P, but I do hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive 
reached this decision.
I note that Mr P has made a number of detailed points, which I have read and considered. I 
hope the fact that I dont respond in similar detail here wont be taken as a discourtesy. As 
an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to respond to 
every point made, but to concentrate on the nub of the issue. So, Ive carefully considered 
both parties comments and the evidence they have presented. I have also reviewed the 
policy terms and conditions and the final response from Assurant.
The basis of Mr Ps complaint is that Assurant offered him a replacement phone that might 
be a remanufactured phone. And that this clause wasnt highlighted in the documentation 
that he received from Assurant. And that the documentation given to him from Assurant 
wasnt fair or clear and didnt comply with industry standards. 
I have considered two sets of policy terms and conditions. One set Mr P said he was given 
by Assurant when he originally opened the policy and the other set, the most recent updated 
terms and conditions.
I understand that Mr P said that he had never seen the updated terms and conditions, but 
Assurant has confirmed that all policy documents would have been sent to Mr P from his 
bank, as it was their responsibility to send any updated terms to him, as the benefits were 
provided as part of his bank account. Assurant confirmed that the most recent update of the 
terms was in November 2021. And Mr P never disclosed to Assurant that he didnt receive 
those terms. Also, our investigator forwarded a copy of the policy terms to Mr P and he 
confirmed that he had received those. So, Im satisfied that Mr P has a copy of the updated 
terms and conditions.
Having read those terms and conditions, I can see there are a number of terms that refer to 
Assurant being permitted to replace the device with a remanufactured (not brand new) 
phone: Replacement phones will be re-conditioned or re-manufactured devices,
rather than brand new. Or Any replacement mobile phone provided will come from 
refurbished stock. Or Replacements (1) This is not new for old insurance, and replacement 
device will come from fully refurbished stock (not brand new). 
In addition, in the terms and conditions that Mr P originally received it said, and Mr P 
confirmed that it contained this term: Where we replace the mobile phone the replacement 
may be a remanufactured (not brand new) device. So, I cant agree that the term was 
unclear or unfair. And it allowed Assurant to replace the phone with a remanufactured 
device.
As to Mr Ps point that the term didnt comply with industry standards, the term is a
standard clause and found in most policies which is why we, and the regulators, wouldn't 
expect to see it highlighted in a key facts document or annual eligibility statement. And Im 
satisfied that all relevant rules and regulations had been adhered to. So, I cant agree that 
the term didnt comply with industry standards. 
I have further reviewed the terms and conditions to see if a cash settlement is an option to 
settle the claim. And it is not. Assurant confirmed that it would be happy for Mr P to continue 
with the claim, and it would re-open the claim, re-take the excess fee (that was refunded to Mr P), and order him a refurbished replacement device. But I understand that Mr P has since 
bought a new phone, so may not wish to take the offer up. 
Accordingly, I dont think Assurant was unfair or unreasonable to offer a remanufactured 
replacement phone. I understand that this option might still be open for Mr P if he wishes. 
But it is for him to contact Assurant to confirm this. Im sorry to disappoint Mr P, but I think 
its reasonable for Assurant to refuse a cash settlement as the terms are clear and fair, and 
in line with industry standards. Consequently, I cant reasonably ask Assurant to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I wont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman