DRN-1521277
 
The complaint
Mr Ds complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited (VWFS) trading as Audi Financial Services.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr D acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints 
about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr D responsible for keeping the car in 
good repair and condition. He would be responsible for any damage to or 
deterioration of the vehicle in excess of fair wear and tear.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Ive considered the photographs of the damage that are provided in the inspection 
report completed at handover. Im persuaded that the damage VWFS are now 
making refurbishment charges for is beyond what would be considered fair wear and 
tear under the BVRLA guidance. Both areas show damage that has broken the 
surface of the paintwork. So, I dont think VWFS have been unreasonable when 
making a charge.
I understand that Mr D says an assessment of the car prior to handover by a third 
party suggested there were no repairs required. But the inspection completed at 
handover was completed to BVRLA guidelines and Ive also considered the damage 
in relation to these guidelines. Im persuaded that the damage was in excess of what 
is considered fair wear and tear.
I understand Mr D now accepts the mileage charges have been charged correctly. 
But for clarity I would say that I agree. Mr Ds contractual mileage limit was 30,000 
and anything over that was chargeable.
I dont think VWFS need to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman