DRN-3687781
The complaint
Mr P, represented by his financial adviser, complains that he was given incorrect information
by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited about his pension and about the delays they caused
when he wanted to withdraw his benefits.
What happened
Mr Ps independent financial adviser (IFA) requested information about Mr Ps Aviva
pension in November 2018 in preparation for advising him on his retirement planning. Aviva
incorrectly informed him that Mr P could take the whole policy (around £8,000 at the time) as
tax-free cash (TFC).
In January 2019 the IFA recommended Mr P to leave his Aviva pension untouched as he
didnt need any further income and he was invested in a low risk investment fund in line with
his attitude to risk. He could access the fund at any time in the future entirely tax-free and he
could use the pension to supplement future ISA contributions retaining its tax-free status.
In March 2020, at the start of the Covid-19 Pandemic, the IFA thought it would be a good
idea for Mr P to take his pension as a tax-free cash lump sum and invest it in a stocks and
shares ISA taking advantage of the downturn in markets at the time. A call note shows he
called Aviva and asked for current values for the policy on 27 March 2020. He was told
information would be sent out to him by 14 April.
On 6 May the IFA requested claim forms and advised Aviva that Mr P wanted to take his
whole fund as TFC. A retirement pack was sent to the IFA on 27 May. On 9 June the IFA
called Aviva and advised that the full TFC option wasnt included in the pack. Aviva sent out
another pack by email on 18 June, however it still didnt include the full TFC option.
On 19 June the IFA wrote to Aviva telling them Mr P was entitled to take his fund as 100%
TFC and complained that Aviva kept sending incorrect information. He couldnt wait anymore
as the funds were required to be reinvested with market conditions favourable at the start of
May. He said as markets had somewhat recovered in the past two months and Mr P had lost
out on investment returns. He said he would now simply doctor the claim forms and asked
Aviva to settle without delay.
He repeated this message to Aviva on 26 June and referred to Avivas letter in November
2018 telling Mr P he could take the whole fund as TFC.
Aviva responded to the complaint on 15 July. They said they received the signed forms and
bank account identification on 29 June and would call shortly to take verbal TFC and lifetime
allowance declarations after which TFC would pay out as a priority.
They paid £125 to Mr P to apologise for the inconvenience caused and said theyd consider
any financial loss on receipt of substantiated evidence.
Aviva called the IFA on the same day but was advised he was currently not working at the
office and to email instead. Aviva sent an email to the IFA on 27 July asking for additional
forms.
In late August the IFA spoke to Aviva and wanted the TFC amount to be checked. He was
advised that Mr P was only entitled to 25% of TFC.
Aviva called the IFA with an actuarial explanation which they put in writing on 12 October.
Aviva explained that after discussions the previous year with HMRC it was agreed some
policies would be treated as scheme pensions rather than a lifetime annuity which resulted in
a reassessment of A day values on these policies. And TFC would have been restricted to
100% of the value on this day (5 April 2006) which was £3,167.33.
Aviva then sent another complaint response acknowledging various delays in the process
and apologised for not explaining sooner than TFC would be lower than 100% of the whole
fund. They paid Mr P a further £125.
Unhappy with the resolution offered, the IFA referred Mr Ps complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think it could be demonstrated what Mr P would have done if he had
received correct information about his TFC earlier and whether he experienced a financial 
loss caused by Avivas errors. However, she did think the delays and lack of correct
information over an extended period of time had a significant impact on Mr Ps retirement
planning and caused a loss of expectation. So she recommended Aviva to double Mr Ps
compensation to a total of £500.
The IFA maintained Mr P should be put back into the position he would be in if he had been
able to invest his pension in March/April 2020 when markets were low. He said if Mr P was
to withdraw his fund now, he would have to pay 20% income tax on the amount exceeding
his TFC and he has lost out on investment returns on the funds since early 2020.
Aviva also didnt agree. They thought the compensation of £250 paid to Mr P was fair in the
circumstances.
I previously issued a decision in which I agreed with Aviva that £250 was fair and reasonable 
compensation in this case. Neither Mr P and his representative nor Aviva had further 
comments, so I see no reason to depart from my original findings which are set out below 
again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here that Aviva did things wrong.
I agree with the investigator that the issue with the information provided in 2018 wasnt a
change in how TFC was calculated but more the fact that Mr P was told he could have the
whole fund tax-free. In my view this was always incorrect. And when the IFA requested
information in 2020 Aviva didnt clarify the TFC position early on and caused delays in the 
process.
The issue for me to consider here is what effect their errors had on Mr P and how to put
things right for him in a fair and reasonable manner.
Its accepted by the IFA that Mr P wasnt entitled to 100% TFC. So it wouldnt be fair to
compensate him for income tax he always would have had to pay. I carefully thought about
what position Mr P likely would be in if Aviva had not made mistakes or delayed the process
and whether he lost out as a result.I dont doubt the IFAs submissions that if he had known the Aviva policy didnt have 100%
TFC in 2019 he might have considered to transfer it to Mr Ps other pension. However, I
dont think leaving it invested as it was at that point likely disadvantaged Mr P. The IFA said
it was invested in line with his attitude to risk.
More importantly, from the IFAs submissions its clear that he and Mr P are actually
unhappy that he couldnt take advantage of withdrawing a lump sum from a with-profits
policy which was protected and had not fallen in value and use it to buy investments through
his stocks and shares ISA when markets were at a low due to the Covid pandemic in 2020.
Again, I dont doubt that this was the genuine intention when the IFA contacted Aviva and
asked for values in late March 2020.
I think Aviva reasonably should have told the IFA in May 2020 when he asked for claim
forms and said Mr P wanted 100% TFC that this wasnt possible and why. I think delays
caused by sending several packs could have been avoided as a result. However, even if
they had done so, its unclear whether Mr P would have proceeded with taking benefits or
when exactly he would have invested.
The IFA didnt accept Avivas explanations around TFC and proceeded to refer the
complaint to this service. And at least in February 2022 Mr P was still invested in the Aviva 
policy. So Im not persuaded the IFA would have accepted any explanations from Aviva if
they had been given earlier straight away and disinvested Mr Ps policy. I think its more
likely he would have waited for their detailed explanations and complained as he did and
waited for the outcome of the complaint.
Even if Im wrong about this and the IFA had accepted Avivas explanation; and the
retirement pack in late May would have been correct and Mr P wanted to proceed, I dont
think Mr P could have realistically taken his benefits much earlier than late June/early July by
the time forms were signed, returned and processed. And markets had largely recovered
from the huge drop in March by then. So investing in an ISA after paying income tax on the
majority of the policy might not have been seen as that attractive anymore.
Overall, theres not enough evidence what exactly Mr P would have done if Aviva had
provided correct information earlier and had not caused delays like they did. I appreciate he
experienced a loss of expectation that he could potentially benefit from an attractive
investment opportunity. However, for the reasons explained theres not sufficient evidence
he would be in a better position now if Aviva had provided correct information earlier or not
delayed the process unnecessarily.
I then considered the inconvenience and loss of expectation Aviva caused Mr P by making
these errors. I think its right that Aviva compensates Mr P, but I consider the compensation
they paid of £250 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Im sure Mr P would have
been disappointed by not being able to access his pension fully tax-free and make use of an
investment opportunity and the delays would have been no doubt annoying and time
consuming. However, I also have to take into account that Mr Ps IFA was doing all the work
for him and that the sums involved were relatively low and didnt form a large part of Mr Ps
retirement planning. The IFA in fact confirmed to our investigator that the complaint came
more from him than from Mr P. So I wont ask Aviva to increase compensation here.
My final decision
Aviva has paid fair and reasonable compensation to Mr P and I wont ask them to pay him 
anything further. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman