DRN-1713031
 
The complaint
Ms P says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as The Woolwich) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Ms P bought a PPI policy to protect her existing mortgage repayments in 2004. The sale 
took place in one of the banks branches. The cover gave her protection against accident, 
sickness and unemployment. She paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms P disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms P says she cant remember how the PPI was sold. I cant know what was said in the 
meeting and Barclays doesnt have the paperwork from the sale. It has provided a sample of 
the PPI application form it says Ms P would have completed and signed. Theres nothing on 
the form that I think could reasonably have led Ms P to believe the PPI was mandatory. Also, 
Ms P wasnt applying for any further borrowing at the same time, so I cant think that she 
would have thought she had to take out PPI for any reason.  On balance, I think its most 
likely Barclays made it clear the PPI was optional and Ms P chose to take it out. I can 
understand she might not recall this as the sale was so long ago. 
Barclays recommended the policy to Ms P so it had to check it was suitable for her. Ive 
looked carefully at her circumstances at the time and I think it was. I say this because Ms P 
met the policy requirements, so she was eligible for the cover.  She says she was entitled to 
some sick pay but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to this and would have paid her 
monthly mortgage costs for up to 12 months for each successful claim. I can see she has 
made a number of successful claims under the policy. Ms P also said family and friends 
would have helped but thats not suitable alternative protection. Its not guaranteed and 
peoples circumstances can change. So I think the PPI couldve been useful if Ms P was sick 
or lost her job.
It seems there wasnt anything in the PPI that would make it difficult for Ms P to claim. She 
wouldnt have been affected by the main exclusions or limitations.  And Ive seen nothing to 
suggest the policy wasnt affordable and it was competitively priced. 
So, overall, I think the PPI was suitable for Ms P.Barclays also had to give Ms P information that was clear, fair and not misleading so that 
she could make an informed choice about the policy. Its possible she didnt have everything 
she needed. But for much the same reasons that I found the policy was suitable, I dont think 
Ms P wouldve decided not to take out this policy if better information had been provided. Ms 
P was eligible, it seems the PPI was affordable, it was competitively priced and she wasnt 
affected by any of the major exclusions or limitations. So I dont think better information 
wouldve changed her decision.
It follows I dont think shes lost out because of any problems with the sale. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman