DRN-3822793
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with a charge Vauxhall Finance Plc added to his conditional sale 
agreement account.
What happened
In November 2015 Mr D took a conditional sale agreement with Vauxhall to acquire a new 
car. The agreement was taken over 36 months, with regular repayments of £226.30 and a 
final payment of £7,439 if Mr D wanted to keep the car.
Mr D says he didnt realise his regular payments had stopped in November 2018 when the 
agreement ended and he didnt make the balloon payment. Mr D says he didnt hear 
anything from Vauxhall until January 2019, when he received an email about arrears on the 
account. Mr D says he moved house twice in 2018 and replied to the email giving Vauxhall 
his new address.
The account was passed to a third party collection agent Ill refer to as P. P visited Mr Ds 
address, and he told them he wanted to refinance the agreement with Vauxhall, so it 
appears P took no further action at the time. Mr D got in touch with Vauxhall and the balloon 
payment was refinanced in March 2019.
In May 2022, Mr D says he was made aware of various charges on the account. This 
included a charge of £312 for the costs of P. Mr D was unhappy with this and complained to 
Vauxhall about the charges.
Vauxhall issued its final response in May 2022. It said, in summary, that the account had 
gone into arrears in November 2018. It said it sent Mr D a default notice for the arrears in 
December 2018 and the conditions werent met. It said because of this, the account was 
passed to P in January 2019.
Vauxhall said it had tried to contact Mr D at various times in November 2018, December 
2018 and January 2019 about the account. But it said it didnt hear from him until the end of 
January 2019.
Vauxhall said it believed it had transferred the account to P correctly and so the charge of 
£312 for its costs was due. But, it said as a gesture of goodwill it had removed all other 
charges and interest from the arrears totalling £144.81.
Mr D remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service. He said he wasnt advised 
of the charge in relation to P until May 2022. He said hed changed his address with all 
relevant parties and had his mail redirected, but he didnt hear from Vauxhall about the 
arrears until an email in January 2019 which went to his junk folder.
Our investigator issued an opinion and didnt uphold the complaint. He said, in summary, 
that Vauxhall had acted reasonably in applying the charge from when the account was 
moved to P. 
Mr D remained unhappy. He reiterated his previous points, and said he was advised on the 
phone that if he offered to pay half of the £312 then Vauxhall should accept this, but it 
backtracked and wouldnt accept his offer.
Our investigator explained this didnt change his opinion. So, the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mr D complains about charges in relation to a conditional sale agreement. Entering into 
regulated consumer credit contracts such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im 
satisfied I can consider Mr Ds complaint about Vauxhall.
It isnt in dispute here that Mr D didnt make payments towards the agreement from 
November 2018, when the balloon payment fell due, for several months. So, I wont 
comment on this further, other than to say, given this, I think Vauxhall acted fairly when it 
issued a default notice on the account. It also isnt in dispute that the terms of this default 
werent met.
So, what I need to consider here is whether it was fair and reasonable for Vauxhall to then 
pass the account to P and to charge Mr D £312.
Ive firstly considered whether Vauxhall was entitled to charge Mr D Ps costs. Looking at the 
terms and conditions for the account that Mr D agreed to, these say:
You will pay us back in full for any loss (being any costs, claims, expenses, damages or 
injury suffered or reasonably incurred by us or a third party including reasonable legal costs) 
under or relating to this Agreement, the Vehicle its use or enforcement of our rights unless 
the loss was due to our negligence
So, Im satisfied that Mr D agreed to pay Vauxhall back for any costs it incurred here from P.
Ive then gone on to consider the contact between Vauxhall and Mr D. Mr D says the first he 
heard from Vauxhall about the arrears was in January 2019 when he received an email. 
Vauxhall has supplied a copy of its contact notes. From this I can see Vauxhall sent Mr D a 
letter about his options for the agreement in August 2018. It then attempted to call him to 
discuss the account in October and early November 2018. And it wrote to Mr D later in 
November to make him aware of the arrears.
On 27 November 2018 Vauxhall called Mr D and he asked it to call back at a specific time. 
Mr D says the call was never returned, but Vauxhall have noted it did try to ring him when it 
said it would and left a voicemail followed by a text message.
In December 2018, before issuing the default notice, Vauxhall wrote to Mr D again and tried 
to call him. In January 2019 once the default notice had expired, but before transferring the 
account to P, Vauxhall called Mr D twice and left voicemails and texts, and also emailed him.
I know Mr D says he didnt hear from Vauxhall until January 2019. But, thinking about all of 
this, Im satisfied Vauxhall made reasonable attempts to contact Mr D to discuss the arrears before the account was sent to P. Given he didnt respond, I think it acted reasonably when it 
transferred the account. 
Given all of this, it follows that I think its fair that Vauxhall charged Mr D the costs from P.
Ive considered what Mr D said about his address. He said he wrote to Vauxhall to tell them 
he moved before the agreement ended. And he said his mail was being redirected so he 
shouldve received anything that was posted. I cant see from the contact notes that Vauxhall 
received any letters from Mr D. And he hasnt provided further evidence of this. On balance, 
I dont think it was likely Vauxhall knew about the change of address until Mr D emailed it in 
January 2019  but I should note this was a few days after the account had been passed to 
P. And, whatever happened here, Vauxhall had also tried to contact Mr D via calls, 
voicemails, texts and email. So, this doesnt change my opinion.
I appreciate Mr D said his mail was being redirected. And he said the email from Vauxhall 
went to his junk folder. But, I dont think Vauxhall can be responsible for issues with Mr Ds 
physical mail or email. So this also doesnt change my opinion.
I have considered that the charge relating to P originated from January 2019 but Mr D says 
he wasnt made aware of this until May 2022. I dont know what happened here. But, even if 
this was the case, while I would consider this somewhat poor service, it wouldnt change the 
fact I think the charge is fair and reasonable. So, whatever happened here, I wouldnt ask 
Vauxhall to take any further action.
Ive also thought about the fact that Mr D says he was advised on the phone that if he 
offered to pay half of the charge Vauxhall should accept this. I dont know for sure what 
happened here. But, Vauxhall dont have to accept a partial offer  so whatever happened I 
dont think it needs to do anything further on this point.
I want to reassure Mr D that Ive carefully considered everything else hes said in relation to 
this complaint. But, having done so, I still dont think it should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman