DRN-4171169
The complaint
Miss S has a motor insurance policy with Advantage Insurance Company Limited. She says 
she got poor service from it after she called to report an accident.
What happened
Miss Ss car was hit whilst it was unattended, by a car that was being chased by the police. 
They told Miss S at the scene that theyd cover her repair costs. But Advantages advisors 
noted that Miss Ss car wasnt damaged by the police, so they thought that wasnt 
appropriate. The advisors said she could make a claim on her policy and pay the excess 
(which she might be able to recover later) or she could wait to see if there was an admission 
of liability. The advisors thought that as the police didnt cause the damage (and the other 
car had cloned plates, so it was probably stolen) there was unlikely to be a valid claim 
against another insurer. 
Miss Ss car had already been taken to her garage. Advantage said if she claimed on her 
policy and it was repaired there, the policy excess would be higher than the standard excess 
payable if she used one of its approved repairers. Miss S didnt want to pay an excess at all, 
as she had played no part in the accident. Advantage then instructed an agent that deals 
with non-fault claims (and normally provides hire cars) to see if it could assist Miss S. The 
agent accepted the instruction, but then said it couldnt proceed without an admission of 
liability from another party. Although her garage was ready to start the repairs straight away, 
Miss S wasnt sure what to do, so there was delay until she chose which option to take. 
Meanwhile, Miss S had complained to Advantage shortly after first contacting it and then 
again on 31 March 2023 (a week after the accident). She didnt like the way the claim was 
being handled and said shed been given incorrect information. Advantage offered her £30 
compensation, but Miss S said the poor service continued.  
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Ss complaint. He said he thought the police had 
given Miss S the wrong advice and that Advantage had advised her correctly. He didnt think 
Advantage had acted unreasonably in making its compensation offer. In response, Miss S 
said Advantage had made many errors. She said she was told initially in error that she had 
motor legal protection, and that she had to submit her details twice. She said she was given 
the wrong information about Advantages agent and then told it didnt have enough details 
from her for it to proceed. She said one advisor had tried to force her to close the claim. And 
she said she was forced to use her own garage, as she was told an approved repairer 
wouldnt be available for four weeks. She thought Advantages overall service was poor, so 
£30 compensation wasnt enough. The complaint was then passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont intend to address every point Miss S has made. Instead, Ill focus on what I think are 
the main issues.
Miss Ss expectations
Given the advice from the police, Miss S expected the repairs to be done quickly and at no 
cost to her. I think that was a reasonable expectation at the time. So when she reported the 
accident to Advantage, she couldnt see why it challenged what the police had said and gave 
her conflicting advice. She noted that all the options Advantage set out meant cost and 
inconvenience for her, even though she wasnt at fault, so she wasnt happy with them. 
Advantage accepted that Miss S had done nothing wrong. But I think it told her correctly that 
she was likely to have a fault claim on her record, which meant a reduction in her no claims 
discount (NCD) and her having to pay the policy excess to get her car repaired. It said if 
she claimed on the policy shed have to wait for an approved repairer (and would then only 
get a small courtesy car). And if she used her own repairer, shed also have a claim on her 
record and a loss of NCD  plus no transport during the repair process and a higher policy 
excess to pay. 
I think its clear why Miss S was upset when Advantage told her about these options  - and 
why she was incredulous about the costs and inconvenience they presented, given that she 
was an innocent party. Many consumers would have had the same reaction. But I think 
Advantage was obliged to give Miss S the facts and to try to manage her expectations by 
setting out the unfortunate reality of her situation.
Advice on liability
In my opinion, it was appropriate for Advantage to inform Miss S that shed been given the 
wrong advice by the police, not only at the start, but also when she called them later to 
check the issue. I think the much less welcome advice she got from Advantage was correct 
in all major respects - as was to be expected, given that insurers deal with motor liability 
claims every day. As Miss S was so reluctant to accept Advantages view, I think it was fair 
for it to suggest initially that she should try to get a formal letter from the police about their 
stance on liability, rather than presenting a claim to the police, when it didnt think that was 
appropriate. I dont think Advantage was trying to be unhelpful to Miss S, as she assumed.
Setting out Miss Ss options   
Having listened to the call recordings provided by Advantage, I think its advisors told Miss S 
what her options were early on in the claims process. It pointed out from the start that she 
could claim on her policy and wait for one of its repairers to become available - or claim on 
her policy and use her own garage straight away. It also told her that if she went ahead and 
there was no admission of liability from another party later, she could contact the Motor 
Insurers Bureau (MIB). The MIB deals with claims against uninsured drivers and may have 
been able to assist her with the policy excess. 
Advantage also said Miss S could wait for an admission of liability instead, but it pointed out 
that until that happened (which it might not) her car would remain unrepaired, and shed be 
without transport. It also told her about the non-fault referral route through its agent. That 
route wasnt successful, but suggesting it was an attempt by Advantage to assist Miss S. 
I dont think theres any evidence that Miss S was forced to use her own garage, as shes 
suggested. In my opinion, it was Advantages role to advise her of all the options (and their 
pros and cons) so she could make an informed decision about what to do. I think it did that. 
And Miss S had made it clear early on that she wasnt keen to use an approved repairer 
anyway. Her garage was approved by her cars manufacturer, which was important to her. A 
manufacturer-approved garage couldnt be guaranteed from Advantages network of 
repairers. So I think Miss S took the option that was the most acceptable one to her.Alternative transport 
Miss S would have had a courtesy car had the repairs been done by an approved repairer, 
but it would have been a class A vehicle that was smaller than her own car. Thats all she 
was entitled to under the policy, but she was adamant that a small car wasnt acceptable. 
Advantage explained to Miss S that a larger car was only available through hire (from its 
agent, on a non-fault basis). But that wasnt an option without an admission of liability from 
another party. Thats because  without such an admission up front -  Miss S would 
ultimately have been liable to pay the full cost of any hire provided by the agent.
Although I understand why Miss S wasnt happy with the transport options, and why she 
assumed that Advantage wasnt helping her, I dont think it was at fault. All Advantage could 
do was to advise her correctly about the replacement vehicle situation, which it did.  
Advice given in calls
In most of the calls with Advantage I think Miss S was given the right information by its 
advisors. But I can see that the situation would still have been confusing (as it would have 
been for many consumers). She spoke to a lot of advisors, and the advice they gave wasnt 
easy to follow, because the situation was complicated. I think some advisors gave slightly 
different advice to others  or presented it in a different way. And I think the advice from the 
police was at the forefront of Miss Ss mind throughout. As she had decided it was correct, it 
follows that she thought the conflicting advice from Advantage must be wrong. 
Advantage accepted that Miss S was given some incorrect information. She was told in error 
that she had motor legal protection, when she hadnt bought it with the main policy, and her 
expectations were raised by that. But there was no other consequence of the advisors 
inaccurate statement, in my opinion. I think there was a lack of clarity at times during some 
other calls, when Miss S and advisors spoke at cross purposes or didnt fully understand 
each other. Although I can see that this would have led to some frustration for Miss S, I dont 
think theres any evidence that any confusion in the calls affected the outcome of her claim.  
Miss S mentioned several times in her comments to us that one advisor had tried to force 
her to close the claim, which I think is a serious allegation. She said he was insistent about 
it. Ive listened to the call, during which Miss S sounded frustrated and upset. I think that was 
probably because the advisor disputed the advice given to her by the police and repeated 
what other advisors had said. Miss S told him that Advantage had done nothing to assist her 
and queried with him whether the issue was that it wanted money from her. The advisor said 
if Miss S believed that to be true, he could close the claim  an offer she declined 
immediately. I think the advisors tone was a little abrupt, but in my opinion, he only offered 
Miss S an option. I dont think he tried to push her into closing the claim.  
In summary
Unfortunately, consumers sometimes suffer unduly in situations like this. I think Miss S did, 
given how stressful she found the process. The outcome of a claim isnt fair to a consumer at 
times either, especially if an uninsured driver is involved. But that doesnt necessarily mean 
the insurer is at fault. Despite my great sympathy for Miss S, given the very difficult position 
she found herself in, I think Advantage acted reasonably overall in dealing with her claim. I 
think some of its service could have been better, but it tried to put that right. Miss S still faced 
costs she wouldnt have had to deal with in a standard non-fault claim, but I think that was 
due to the unfortunate circumstances around the accident. So I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable for me to require Advantage to offer Miss S further compensation. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman