DRN-2834592
The complaint
Mr T complains about Tesco Personal Finance PLC and their handling of his current 
account. 
What happened
In June 2019, Mr T contacted Tesco and asked them to close his current account. Tesco 
processed this at Mr Ts request.
But a few days later, Tesco needed to reopen Mr Ts account as a small amount of interest 
needed to be accepted into the account. Because of this, Mr T remained able to transfer 
money in and out of the account through his online banking.
In January 2020, the debit card associated with Mr Ts account expired. And in November 
2020, Mr T contacted Tesco to request a new one. Tesco sent a new card to Mr T but as his 
account had been closed previously, the card that was sent didnt include the usual account 
number. Mr T noticed this and after speaking to Tesco, another card was sent. This card 
arrived in the same format so Mr T contacted Tesco again. Tesco referred this issue to their 
IT department and after investigation, it was realised this was due to Mr Ts account being 
closed previously. So, a new working debit card couldnt be issued for that account. Tesco 
explained to Mr T they couldnt open a new current account as they were no longer offering 
new accounts to customers. Mr T was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr T didnt think it was fair that Tesco couldnt provide a debit card that would allow him to 
use his account for debit transactions. And he didnt think it was reasonable for Tesco to 
refuse to open a new current account because of this. To resolve the issue, Mr T wanted to 
be able to use his current account with Tesco as if it hadnt been closed, or another account 
set up.
Tesco responded to Mr Ts complaint and upheld it. They agreed they shouldve made Mr T 
aware that his account had been re-opened after it had been closed and explained the 
reason for this. But they didnt think theyd done anything wrong by not providing a new 
working debit card, or opening a new account, as theyd followed their business process at 
the time. So, they credited Mr Ts account with £25 to acknowledge their failure, which Mr T 
would be able to transfer into another account he held. Mr T was unhappy with this, so he 
referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. He agreed that Tesco shouldve told 
Mr T his account had re-opened after it had been closed. And he recognised the £25 Tesco 
offered to recognise this. But he didnt think this offer was enough to address the 
inconvenience Mr T had been caused when he received a new debit card that wasnt able to 
be used and the times hed had to contact Tesco to understand why this was. So, he thought 
Tesco should pay Mr T a further £50 to recognise this. But he didnt think Tesco should open 
a new account, or issue a new working card, as Tesco had followed their business process 
which they were entitled to do.
Mr T accepted the investigators view. But Tesco didnt. They didnt think Mr T had been 
impacted in a way that warranted further compensation, as he hadnt tried to use the card. 
So, they thought he had access to funds in other accounts. And they didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong when not recognising the account had been closed when Mr T asked for a 
new card as it wasnt standard procedure for their call handlers to go back into files to 
understand whether an account had previously been closed. So, they didnt think they 
needed to do anything more. As Tesco didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome. 
Ive listened to the call between Mr T and Tesco in June 2019. And having done so, Im 
satisfied Mr T did ask Tesco to close his account. And Im satisfied they did. So, when Tesco 
needed to re-open Mr Ts account as an interest payment was due to be paid into it, Id have 
expected them to have told Mr T the account had been re-opened and the reason for this. Id 
also expect them to clarify with Mr T whether he wanted it to be closed again and if he didnt, 
what the limitations of the account would then be. Tesco have admitted they didnt do this 
and offered £25 to recognise this failure. As this isnt in dispute, I havent looked into this any 
further.
What is in dispute in this case is the impact this error had on Mr T. Tesco feels the impact 
has been minimal, as Mr T didnt use the account between August 2019 and November 
2020, when he requested a new debit card. And Tesco have said there is no evidence to 
show Mr T attempted to use the card, and was declined when doing so, after the new cards 
were sent. 
But Mr T feels hes its taken him time and effort to contact Tesco on multiple occasions to 
understand why the debit card he received didnt have an account number. And hes 
unhappy hes now unable to use the account as a usual current account. So, Ive thought 
about the impact this issue has had on Mr T, and whether Tesco have acted fairly when 
refusing to provide Mr T with a new account, or a re-activation of his current one.
Tesco have explained when an account is closed, it can no longer be used again as a full 
current account. And this is why the replacement cards they sent didnt include an account 
number. This is a business process that Tesco have chosen to put in place. And its not my 
role to comment on a business process or ask a business to change it. So, I cant say Tesco 
have done anything wrong by following this. And at the time Mr T asked for a new account to 
be created, Tesco had already closed applications for new current accounts. I dont think it 
would be fair for me to say Tesco should alter a business decision for one customer, as they 
have a responsibility to treat all customers fairly. So, while I can appreciate Mr Ts 
disappointment, I dont think Tesco have done anything wrong when refusing to create a 
new account.
But I do think Mr T has been impacted by Tescos error of opening the account and not 
explaining why. As the account was re-opened, Mr T was able to use his online banking 
facilities to transfer money in and out of the account. I think this gave Mr T the impression 
that his account was continuing the function as it always had. So, I think this created an 
expectation for Mr T that his account was still there to be used, should he want to use it. So, when he came to request a new debit card and it didnt include an account number, I can 
understand why hed be concerned and query this with Tesco. 
Tesco issued another replacement, which had the same issue. And its at that point the issue 
was raised with Tescos IT department for further investigation. But by this point, Mr T had 
needed to call Tesco on two separate occasions, which I think wouldve been inconvenient. 
And as hed received two cards that didnt look correct, I also think this wouldve been 
frustrating for him. 
Im aware Tesco feel because Mr T didnt attempt to use the card, the impact was lessened. 
But I think its reasonable for me to assume Mr T wanted to use the card, as he requested 
one for that purpose. And as the card he received didnt follow a usual format, I think Mr T 
contacted Tesco rather than attempting to use it. So, whether Mr T attempted to use the card 
or not, I think he was prevented from doing so. And I think that wouldve had some impact on 
Mr T, whether or not he had other accounts available. 
Mr T is free to manage his accounts as he wishes, and as Ive explained above, I think 
Tescos failure to advise Mr T about the limitations of the account in June 2019 created an 
expectation that the account was still open, and fully functional. So, Mr T was left in a 
position where he believed he had a functional current account that he was unable to use.
Ive also considered Tescos explanation of what process their call handlers follow when a 
customer requests a new card. And why they wouldnt have expected these handlers who 
spoke to Mr T to complete further investigation into why the new cards didnt have an 
account number. And I can appreciate the process they have in place. But ultimately, I think 
if Tesco hadnt made the error of not advising Mr T in June 2019, then I dont think Mr T 
wouldve attempted to request a new debit card in the first place. So, I do think there has 
been a greater impact on Mr T than has been recognised with the offer of £25 that Tesco 
credit to Mr Ts account.
Putting things right
As I dont think the offer Tesco made in their response to Mr Ts complaint is enough to 
recognise all of the inconvenience Mr Ts been caused, Ive then thought about what I think a 
fair offer would be.
I think Tesco created an unrealistic expectation for Mr T by re-opening his account and 
allowing him to use it to transfer funds in and out of it. So, when the new cards were issued 
and didnt have the correct format, Mr T has had to take time and effort to contact Tesco to 
understand why this was. And as Mr T wasnt told of the limitations to the account after it had 
been closed, its meant that Tesco were no longer able to offer Mr T another account when 
he finally came to realise what these limitations were.
But I have also considered the fact Mr T did request the close the account and when he was 
still able to use it, he couldve contacted Tesco to query why this was. But ultimately, as the 
account provider, I think the main responsibility to ensure Mr T had all the information he 
needed fell on Tesco. And they failed to do so.
So, considering all of the above, I think Tesco should pay Mr T a further £50 to recognise the 
inconvenience hes been cased.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Ts complaint about Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC and direct them to take the following action:Pay Mr T an additional £50 to recognise the inconvenience hes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman