DRN-2373596
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car he obtained through a conditional sale agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited was of unsatisfactory quality. Shortly after referring his complaint to 
us, Close Brothers accepted his rejection of the car. But Mr C complains that Close Brothers 
hasnt give him a full refund.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and full details were set out 
by our investigator and in my provisional decision. So I wont repeat them here.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld, but Mr C didnt 
agree so the complaint was passed to me. I reached a different conclusion to our 
investigator and set out my reasons in a provisional decision, giving both parties a final 
opportunity to provide further evidence or information. I said:
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and 
(where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The conditional sale agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, 
this service can consider complaints relating to it. Close Brothers is the supplier of 
goods under this agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term 
that the quality of goods is satisfactory. Mr C made a complaint about the quality of 
the car  the roof was leaking. The supplying garage attempted repair but was 
unsuccessful. Close Brothers arranged for an independent report which concluded 
the fault was present when the car was supplied. As a result, Close Brothers 
accepted Mr Cs rejection of the car at the beginning of January 2020.
In circumstances like these, I would expect Close Brothers to put Mr C back in the 
position hed be in if he hadnt taken out the agreement. But I would also expect Mr C 
to pay for the use hes had of the car.
Mr C paid a deposit of £3,243.38  cash of £743.38 and a part exchange of £2,500. I 
think Close Brothers should refund this in full, plus interest at 8% from the date it was 
paid to the date its refunded.
Mr C had the car for nearly five months. He made four monthly payments and I think 
its fair that Close Brothers retain these. I say this because I think this fairly covers 
the use Mr C had of the car, bearing in mind it was in the garage for repair for around 
a month.
Close Brothers retained £627.05 of Mr Cs deposit. It says Mr C had driven the car 
more than the average driver. But I dont think that is fair. There is no mileage 
restriction in the agreement and Mr C was entitled to drive the car as he wanted. The 
increased mileage may have an impact on the value of the car, but I dont find this is 
something Mr C should be penalised for. I say this because Mr C didnt choose to 
end the agreement. He rejected the car because it wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Close Brothers accepted his rejection of the car and cancelled the agreement. So 
there should be nothing further for Mr C to pay.
Close Brothers paid Mr C £50 compensation for delays, which I find to be fair and 
reasonable.
Close Brothers had nothing to add to my provisional decision.
Mr C said, in summary, that:
He had his family in a car that had been involved in an accident and he could have 
crashed at any point.
He had to continued to make the monthly payments while he was waiting for this to be 
sorted out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I accept Mr C may have been concerned that the car had previously been involved in 
an accident, theres nothing in the independent report to suggest that the car had any 
mechanical issues and nothing to suggest that the car was unsafe to drive. And, as I noted 
in my provisional decision, Mr C had use of the car  apart from the month that it was in the 
garage  so I think its fair he pays for this use through the monthly payments. So I dont find 
Mr Cs comments in response to my provisional decision make a difference to my earlier 
conclusions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Close Brothers Limited should:
1. Pay Mr C £627.15, being a refund of the remaining deposit.
2. Pay Mr C interest at 8% on the (whole) deposit from the date he paid it to the dates it 
was refunded.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Close Brothers Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
Close Brothers Limited must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman