DRN-2940663
The complaint
Miss S complains about the service she received from Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard when she asked for a payment holiday on her credit card account. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In April 2020 Miss S asked for a payment holiday, which Barclaycard agreed to. But when 
she asked to extend it Barclaycard didnt handle things well which resulted in the account 
being defaulted. Barclaycard has since proposed that it remove any adverse information 
from Miss S credit file linked to this matter and allow her to repay her outstanding balance 
through a repayment plan. I think this proposal is fair as it ensures Miss S credit file isnt 
negatively impacted by whats happened and it allows her to repay her outstanding balance 
in an affordable way, especially as no interest or charges will be applied. Im pleased to see 
Miss S is also satisfied with the proposal.
The customer service Barclaycard provided was poor. The investigator set this out in detail, 
and I wont repeat that here. But in summary, Miss S was very concerned about her account 
and made regular contact with Barclaycard. Barclaycard made several errors in actioning her 
payment holiday extension request, gave her incorrect information, incorrect timescales, 
didnt update her properly, and didnt return calls as agreed. It also declined her request, 
seemingly in error, and defaulted the account. And later, when arranging a repayment plan, 
it didnt take her accessibility needs into account. 
Barclaycard has accepted it let Miss S down. It agreed with our investigators 
recommendation to pay her £350 compensation in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her. And then offered a further £150 compensation in recognition of 
the impact its actions had when arranging the repayment plan. Miss S doesnt think this is 
enough compensation given what shes been through. I dont underestimate her strength of 
feeling. But, looking objectively, I think the sums shes been offered, combined with an 
apology and the actions agreed to regarding her credit file and the outstanding balance, are 
fair and reasonable. It follows that Im not going to require Barclaycard to pay Miss S more.
 
Putting things right
I order Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard to:
1. Remove any adverse information related to this matter from Miss S credit file;
2. Set up a repayment plan with Miss S for £150 a month; and
3. Pay Miss S £500 compensation, in total, in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience shed been caused.
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard to put 
things right as set out above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman