DRN-4507670
The complaint
Mr S complains that PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender), lent to him
irresponsibly. Mr S says he had lots of other loans at the time and Mr Lender ought to
have known that.
What happened
A summary of Mr S borrowing can be found below:
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentshighest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £200.00 31/01/2021 03/06/2021 3 £108.26
2 £500.00 04/06/2021 03/12/2021 6 £183.23
Gap in lending 
3 £300.00 05/06/2022 28/09/2022 3 £155.20
Mr Lender has told us that Mr S instigated two deferrals  which is where he paid an interest
only payment  twice for loan 1, once for loan 2, and once for loan 3. Mr Lender has also
pointed out the gap in lending between loans 2 and 3 and this has been addressed in
this decision.
Mr Lender received Mr S complaint which said that Mr Lender ought to have realised
he had a poor credit rating, with loan 1 he deferred the payment twice and then wanted to
borrow more than double at loan 2. So, Mr Lender ought not to have lent to him.
Mr Lender issued him its final response letter (FRL) on 8 December 2022. In the FRL it
explained what it had done before approving the loans and it had explained that it offered a 
facility which allowed Mr S to pay interest only. It also explained that gave Mr S flexibility and 
did not necessarily mean that it was a sign of financial difficulties.
Mr S then referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service along with two sets of
personal credit file search documents.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and issued two letters of opinion in which
her view was that she was not satisfied with the CRA search results Mr Lender had sent to
the Financial Ombudsman. So, she had used one of the credit files from Mr S  the
one which was issued by the same CRA Mr Lender had used.
Our adjudicators view was that the deferrals ought to have led to further checks before loan
2. And the information she had seen from the personal credit file showed that Mr S had a lot
of outstanding debt and Mr Lender ought not to have approved loans 2 and 3.
Mr S was content with that outcome and from that it seems loan 1 is not in dispute - it
appears to have been resolved.
Mr Lender disagreed. I have summarised the two sets of objections sent in by Mr Lender
here. The reference to CONC is the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Consumer Credit
Sourcebook. Mr Lender in summary said:
the credit checks competed were not different for each loan
CONC 6.7.23 says two interest only payments on an agreement is acceptable;
Mr Lender applied multiple uplifts to Mr S' credit commitment declarations, and to
his expenditure declarations based on ONS data. It sent screenshots of those 
records and uplifts.
Mr Lender made several points about our adjudicators use of Mr S personal CRA 
report. It cited several ombudsman decisions it had received in the past to illustrate 
that it is entitled to rely on the CRA information it obtained at the time.
The unresolved complaint was passed to an ombudsman colleague of mine to decide, and
she then issued a provisional decision outlining her thoughts on the case and why she was
intending to not uphold it. A summary of her conclusions from the provisional decision are
outlined below.
A proportionate check was carried out before loan 1 was approved, and while Mr S 
did defer payment on two occasions this was the number allowed under 
CONC 6.7.23 and Mr Lender was entitled to not treat those deferments as 
forbearance.
For loan 2, although she wasnt convinced of the persuasiveness of the credit result 
summary provided by Mr Lender she then used Mr S credit file from July 2022 to see 
what Mr Lender may have seen at the time and she was satisfied, that on balance, 
Mr Lender wouldnt have seen anything of concern.
Mr Lender uplifted some of the expenditure details it was given by Mr S and having 
done so the loans still looked affordable.
There was then a break in lending between Mr S repaying loan 2 and returning for 
loan 3, thinking about this break she thought proportionate checks had been 
conducted which showed Mr S could afford the final loan.
She then gave both parties the opportunity to provide any further submissions for
consideration. Mr S didnt agree with the ombudsmans provisional decision and in summary
said:
He provided a breakdown of the active payday loans he had at around the time loan 
2 was advanced. Based on Mr S calculations he was paying over £1,000 per month 
to service around 10 loans.
He also provided copy bank statements.
Mr S says around the time of loan 2, his credit score was about 489  which puts him 
into the very poor category.
Mr Lender didnt respond to the provisional decision, but a senior investigator did request
further information from Mr Lender  that my colleague wanted a response to. Mr Lender 
then provided further information about the uplifts it undertook for each of Mr S loan 
applications as well as provided some raw credit file data, that related to loan 3.
The complaint was then passed to me to consider afresh and as a new ombudsman was 
considering the complaint it was fair and reasonable to give both parties a further opportunity 
to respond.  I then issued a provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending 
to not uphold Mr S complaint. Both parties were given a further opportunity to provide new 
submissions but these needed to have been received as soon as possible, but in any event, 
no later than 8 December 2023. Mr Lender responded to say that it didnt have anything further to add and Mr S didnt 
respond to the provisional decision.
A copy of the provisional findings follows this in smaller font and forms part of this final 
decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Lender had to assess the lending to check if Mr S could afford to pay back the amounts
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances.
Mr Lenders checks couldve taken into account a number of different things, such as how
much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr S income and expenditure.
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Mr Lender should have done more to
establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr S. These factors include:
Mr S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
Mr S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also suggestive 
of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr S. But I dont consider that this
applied to Mr S circumstances given the value of the loans and the gap in borrowing. I
therefore, cant reasonably conclude that a lending pattern had developed.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr S was able to repay
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr S complaint.
Having considered everything afresh, I am like the last ombudsman intending to conclude
that Mr Lender carried out proportionate checks  given there are two chains of borrowing
and Ive explained why below.
Loan 1
Mr S doesnt appear to dispute the outcome for loan 1, but for completeness I have
considered what has happened.
Briefly, Mr S was a new customer of Mr Lender, borrowing a modest loan with a three-month
repayment term. In my view  which is shared by the adjudicator who assessed the
complaint as well as my ombudsman colleague the checks carried out were proportionate
and likely showed that Mr S could afford the loan repayments. So, I plan not to uphold Mr S
complaint about this loan.To echo, what my colleague said, I also agree that the number of deferrals on this loan
wasnt anything, at this time, for Mr Lender to have been concerned about. Mr S deferred
payment twice and the relevant paragraph in the rules is CONC 6.7.23R. This relates to post
contract business practices. It says:
A firm must not refinance high-cost short-term credit (other than by exercising
forbearance) on more than two occasions.
The regulations allow a lender to in effect allow a customer to pay two interest only
repayments during the loan term  which is what happened here when Mr S deferred the
first two payments of his first loan. It therefore follows that I agree, that had Mr S needed
more than two roll-overs on the same loan then that could be an indicator of financial
difficulties.
And so having provisionally come to that view on these interest-only repayments then I do
not consider that it ought to have prompted any further checks when Mr S applied for
loan 2.
Loan 2
Having considered everything that Mr Lender did before it lent this loan  along with the
comments Mr S has provided, I am satisfied that a proportionate check was carried out by
Mr Lender which showed it, that Mr R would likely be able to afford his repayments, and Ive
explained my reasoning below.
Loan 2 was applied for the day after Mr S settled loan 1  and he had borrowed more than
the twice the amount. But I dont think the loan available increasing (on its own) wouldve led
Mr Lender to conclude it needed to carry out further checks before lending.
For this loan, Mr Lender asked Mr S to declare his income and expenditure details and it
also carried out a credit search. Mr S declared that his net monthly income was £2,460 I
think it was reasonable and proportionate for Mr Lender to have relied on what Mr S
declared.
Mr S was asked to declare monthly outgoings across a number of different categories
including mortgage / rent, credit commitments, utilities and travel to name a few. Mr S
declared these costs came to £320 per month.
As part of the application process, Mr Lender compared what Mr S declared with information
it received from the credit report and data from the ONS and having considered the
information it increased Mr S monthly expenditure to £641 per month. It has also provided a
screen shot from its system to show all the uplifts it applied and to what categories. An
example of one of the adjustments is for utilities, where it increased Mr S declared figure of
£20 and uplifted this to £55 per month.
Based solely on the income and expenditure information Mr Lender gathered Mr S had
potentially enough disposable income to afford the largest repayment for each loan.
Its also worth saying that Mr S didnt declare any housing costs. But Mr S declared he lived
at home with parents so that would explain why his costs were so low compared to someone
with rent or a mortgage. I see no reason as to why Mr Lender couldnt rely on what it was
told, so I dont think it needed to have verified what Mr S living arrangements were or ask
further questions about his housing costs.
Before the loan was approved Mr Lender also carried out a credit search and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a summary of the results it received from the credit
reference agency. I want to add that although Mr Lender carried out a credit search there
isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard.This does mean and can mean that the results a lender may see could be different to the
information that a consumer can see in the credit report they can download from a credit
reference agency.
There are a number of reasons why the information could differ, it could be that Mr Lender
only asked for certain pieces of information and not for example an entire copy of the credit
report. Or other loans that Mr S may have recently taken may not yet have been recorded or
updated with the credit reference agencies and therefore Mr Lender wouldnt have known
about them.
While I do acknowledge the information Mr S has provided to us in response to the
provisional decision, which he says shows at the end of May 2021  so shortly after this loan
was taken, Mr S paid over £1,200 to 13 different payday, instalment and high cost credit
providers. I can see many of these payments from the bank statements that Mr S has
provided, but what I have to be satisfied is whether that information was provided to
Mr Lender.
If the information was given to Mr Lender, then of course, it needed to react to that and
possibly take a different course of action. However, if the credit check results didnt show
that Mr S had a significant number of outstanding payday loans, I wouldnt at this early point
in the lending relationship have expected Mr Lender to known about these.
Having looked at the credit results summary Mr Lender has provided, there wasnt anything
in my view, that wouldve led Mr Lender to have carried out further checks. It knew Mr S
wasnt insolvent either through an Individual Voluntary Arrangement, bankruptcy or a County
Court Judgement within the three years preceding the loans.
It was also told that Mr S had only one outstanding AAI  which means advanced against
income which is another name for a payday loan. So superficially, the information Mr Lender
received suggested that Mr S wasnt reliant on or had the number of outstanding loans that
Mr S said he had.
Since my colleagues provisional decision, Mr Lender has been able to provide the raw data
from its credit search that it received when loan 3 was advanced. But it has explained that as
Mr S had the same address when he applied for loan 2, it is able to infer what its credit
checks wouldve shown it at the time of this loan application.
As part of this, Mr Lender provided an explanation as to what payday loans would be coded
as within the credit file data  and what Mr Lender explained is consistent with my
understanding of such searches.
Having reviewed the credit search results that Mr Lender provided it accepts what wouldve
likely been visible to it at the time that loan 2 was advanced, there was only one outstanding
payday loan which had been opened on 10 May 2021 and was costing Mr S £141 per
month. So, the summary that Mr Lender provided showing that it was only aware of 1
outstanding payday loan is consistent with the raw data provided at loan 2.
Its worth adding here that the data does show that Mr S had taken other payday loans,
earlier on in the year but all of these had been repaid by the time loan 2 was advanced. I
also dont think the number of accounts that were classed as payday loans wouldve been of
a concern to Mr Lender.
I mention previously about the uplifts, and following the credit check for loan 2, it uplifted
Mr S monthly credit commitments from the £50 he had declared to £187 and it was this
larger sum that was used for the affordability assessment and I do think that was the right
thing for Mr Lender to have done.
But the information Mr Lender received from the credit reference agency does significantly
differ from what Mr S has provided. Ive already given some examples as to why there may
be a difference but given it was early on in the lending relationship, I do think it wasreasonable for Mr Lender to have relied on what it was told by the credit reference agency
because there wasnt anything else that contradicted what Mr Lender was told.
There were also no triggers in the way the loan 1 was repaid or in the loan values to have
prompted Mr Lender to do better checks, such as reviewing Mr S bank statements. So,
while Mr S has provided copy bank statements to us from around this time the loan was
advanced it wouldve been, in my view disproportionate for Mr Lender to have asked for
them at the time.
Overall, it was reasonable for Mr Lender to have relied on the information that Mr S provided
about his income and expenditure as well as the credit check results that Mr Lender
received. The checks Mr Lender carried out were proportionate and showed
Mr S should be able to afford the repayments. There also wasnt anything else to suggest
the loans would either be unaffordable or unsustainable for him.
I am therefore intending to not uphold Mr S complaint about loan 2.
Loan 3
There was then a break in lending of around six months after loan 2 was repaid and before
loan 3 was granted, so it was entirely reasonable for Mr Lender to have treated Mr S
application afresh for the loan and so treated him as a new customer. This means while it
was Mr S third loan it was in effect loan 1 of a new chain of borrowing. Ive kept this in mind
when thinking about whether Mr Lenders checks went far enough.
Loan 3 was also a smaller sum than loan two, and as before it was entirely reasonable for
Mr Lender to have relied on Mr S declared monthly net income of £2,500.
Mr Lender also carried out the same sort of checks on Mr S declared monthly expenditure
(which Mr S declared to be £475). After reviewing his credit file and using ONS data it
believed Mr S monthly outgoings came to £1,148.
As before a credit search was carried out and the same sort of caveats apply to this loan as
they did for loan 2. Once again there were no signs of any defaults, delinquencies or
insolvencies. Finally, this time Mr Lender was told that Mr S didnt have any outstanding
payday loans  and this is supported by the raw data that Mr Lender provided.
Overall, for a first loan in a new chain  for a modest loan. Asking Mr S about his income and
expenditure, as well as carrying out a credit search was in view Mr Lender carrying out a
proportionate check. So, I consider that Mr Lender was not acting irresponsibly to treat loan
3 as the first of a new loan chain and that it was not irresponsible when it determined that
Mr S had enough to repay a £300 loan over three instalments.
I do not uphold Mr S complaint about loan 3.
Finally, Mr Lender has said that it made a gesture of goodwill in the final response letter
which was to remove each of your loans with Mr Lender entirely from your credit file.
Mr Lender appears to be suggesting this offer is still available to Mr S and so I leave it up to
him discuss this with Mr Lender if he wishes to accept it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No new submissions have been provided in response to the most recent provisional 
decision. I therefore see no reason to depart from the findings I made in the provisional 
decision and which can be found above. I still think Mr Lender carried out proportionate checks that demonstrated that Mr S would likely be able to afford the repayments he was 
committed to making. 
As before, I leave it up to Mr S to contact Mr Lender to discuss removing these loans from 
the credit file. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding Mr S 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman