DRN-3690496
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as H has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
(RSA) unfairly avoided its commercial insurance policy. 
Mr M, a director of H, has complained on Hs behalf. 
What happened
H held a commercial insurance policy with RSA. H claimed on its policy after its business 
was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. While looking 
into Hs claim, RSA said that when buying the policy H hadnt disclosed that Mr M had two 
county court judgments (CCJs). RSA said that if this had been disclosed it wouldnt have 
sold H the policy, although it accepted Mr M hadnt deliberately withheld the information. 
Therefore, RSA avoided (cancelled from the start as though it never existed) Hs policy and 
refunded its premium. 
H complained to RSA. It said the CCJs were due to post being sent to Mr Ms previous 
address and that hed settled them as soon as hed become aware. H didnt think the CCJs 
should be relevant to whether RSA would insure H. H also said that RSA had continued to 
take the monthly payments for Hs policy after avoiding it. 
RSA maintained that it was entitled to avoid Hs policy, although it apologised for its error in 
continuing to take monthly payments and arranged for the payments to be refunded. 
 Unhappy with RSAs response, H brought its complaint to our service. In summary, H said:
It was unfair and unreasonable for RSA to avoid Hs policy. 
When avoiding the policy, RSA quoted a statement on the Statement of Fact, which it 
said supported that H had provided the wrong information, but later quoted an 
entirely different statement. 
H was not asked about CCJs when buying the policy. 
The question about whether Mr M has had any CCJs is unfair, unreasonable and too 
wide. There is no time limit placed on the question and no distinction between 
satisfied and unsatisfied judgments. Its unreasonable to want to know this 
information about all of the directors of a company and there is no distinction 
between the company and the private individual. It is unfair to ask about this when 
an insurer cant require the disclosure of a spent conviction. 
Court correspondence had been sent to Mr Ms previous address and he paid the 
outstanding amounts as soon as he knew about them.
The CCJs have no bearing on the risk and RSA hasnt shown it wouldnt have 
covered H if it had known about the CCJs. H has been able to buy insurance 
elsewhere at no extra cost which indicates that the CCJs dont impact the risk.
As the court papers were sent to the wrong address, Mr M could apply to have them 
set aside which would mean that there would be no grounds for the avoidance. 
However, Mr M shouldnt have to make this application because the refusal decision 
is wrong per se. 
RSA continued to take monthly payments after avoiding the policy. 
RSA is using the CCJs to avoid liability for Hs claim. 
RSA said that H had bought its policy via a broker. It said the Statement of Fact asked H to 
agree to a number of statements, including that its directors hadnt been the subject of a 
CCJ. RSA said that as it wasnt made aware of the CCJs it was entitled to avoid Hs policy 
under the Insurance Act 2015 (the Act).
Our investigator looked into Hs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought 
RSA had acted fairly in avoiding Hs policy in line with the Act and he didnt think it was 
unfair or unreasonable for RSA to ask questions about a directors CCJ.
H asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary, it said:
The Statement of Fact was pre-answered as it arrived with the policy documents 
after the sale.
The broker was an agent of RSA so RSA should be responsible for its actions.
There is no rule about whether an insurer will provide cover where a policyholder has 
a CCJ and it doesnt impact the risk. Our service should find out whether RSA had 
ever provided cover for a policyholder with a CCJ. 
The CCJs dont constitute a moral hazard. 
Spent convictions arent required to be disclosed so its unfair that H should have to 
disclose Mr Ms satisfied CCJs. 
As set out in its complaint, Mr M could apply to the court to have the CCJs set aside. 
Insurers are required to act proportionately to non-disclosure and the question set out 
within the Statement of Fact is unfair, unreasonable and too wide. 
The ombudsman should consider RSAs attitude to the risk as insurers have 
discretion and in this case the two CCJs arent significant. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
H has made a number of detailed points. I have considered them all, but I dont intend to 
address them all in this decision and will focus on what I consider to be the central issues. 
This reflects the informal nature of our service. 
H bought its policy in 2019 through a broker. H said the broker is an agent of RSAs, but I 
havent seen anything other than Hs comments to support this. Im therefore not persuaded that the broker was RSAs agent. If H is unhappy with the actions of the broker, it would 
need to complain to the broker separately. 
As RSA has said, the relevant law in this case is the Insurance Act 2015. This requires 
commercial customers to make a fair presentation of the risk when taking out a commercial 
insurance contract (a policy) and at renewal.
If the policyholder fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies if they make - what the
Act describes as - a qualifying breach. For it to be a qualifying breach the insurer has to
show it would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the customer had
made a fair presentation of the risk. The remedy available to the insurer under the Act
depends on whether the qualifying breach was deliberate or reckless, or neither deliberate
nor reckless.
RSA thinks H failed to make a fair presentation of the risk when he bought the policy
because it didnt disclose two CCJs from 2016 and 2017. 
The Statement of Fact from 2019 says that it contains a mixture of answers provided by F as 
well as some assumptions. RSA initially pointed to the wrong part of the Statement of Fact 
but later clarified which part it was relying on to avoid the policy. Im satisfied the part RSA 
relied on is included in the Statement of Fact as under the heading Statements about You it 
says:
Neither You or Your directors or partners or family members involved with the 
Business or any other businesses have ever:

 been the subject of a county court judgement in respect of debt either as private 
individuals or in connection with any business
I understand H thinks this statement is unfair, unreasonable and too wide for the reasons set 
out within its complaint. While Ive noted its points, an insurer is entitled to ask about the risk 
its covering, including about a companys directors. H has highlighted that an insurer cant 
ask about a spent conviction and while I take its point, Im not aware of anything that means 
an insurer cant ask about a satisfied CCJ. As the statement about CCJs is on the Statement 
of Fact, and RSA has also provided its underwriting criteria in relation to this, I think its more 
likely than not that it is a point which is material to whether RSA decides to enter into a 
contract with the policyholder. So, Im not persuaded that it was unfair or unreasonable for 
RSA to require H to disclose Mr Ms CCJs. 
H bought its policy through a broker. So H, or the broker acting on Hs behalf, needed to 
ensure that it made a fair presentation of the risk to RSA. Ive noted Hs point that the broker 
didnt ask about any CCJs, but RSA isnt responsible for that. In any event, its for H to make 
a fair presentation of the risk. RSA provided H with a copy of the Statement of Fact following 
the sale to check the information that had been provided as well as any other assumptions. I 
havent seen anything to indicate that H let RSA know the information wasnt correct. 
It's not in dispute that Mr M had been the subject of two CCJs and given that H didnt let 
RSA know about them I dont think H made a fair presentation of the risk. H said Mr M paid 
the CCJs as soon as he knew about them and could apply to get them set aside given they 
were sent to the incorrect address. Im not going to comment on whether Mr M should do 
that, as thats Mr Ms choice to make. But even if he did have them set aside I dont think it 
would make a difference to the outcome of this complaint. Thats because the CCJs were 
registered at the time H bought its policy and as it was something that was material to RSA 
entering into the contract H should have told RSA about them. As H didnt tell RSA about Mr Ms CCJs I dont think H made a fair presentation of risk. So 
Ive then considered what RSA would have done if it had known about the CCJs. 
An insurer is entitled to decide which risks it wants to cover. I appreciate the points that H 
has made about whether the CCJs are material to the risk and that insurers have discretion 
but RSA has provided me with an extract of its underwriting criteria that confirms it wouldnt 
have offered the policy if it had known about the CCJs. The underwriting criteria is 
commercially sensitive, so I cant share it with H, but Id like to reassure H that I have seen it. 
In this case, the underwriting criteria is enough for me to be satisfied that RSA wouldnt have 
offered H the policy and also that it has treated H as it would other customers in the same 
circumstances. So I dont think I need to ask RSA further questions about its other 
customers in order to reach a decision on this complaint. 
As RSA wouldnt have offered H the policy, I think H made a qualifying breach. Therefore, 
under the Act, as RSA wouldnt have offered cover, RSA is entitled to avoid Hs policy. RSA 
has also refunded Hs premium as it didnt think Hs qualifying breach was deliberate or 
reckless. I think this is fair and reasonable as I also havent seen anything to indicate that H 
deliberately or recklessly didnt make a fair presentation of the risk. 
As RSA was entitled to avoid the policy, I think it has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with 
the Act in doing so. It follows that RSA dont have to deal with Hs claim as there was no 
policy in force. 
I can see from its final response that RSA apologised for taking monthly premiums after 
avoiding the policy and has made arrangements for these to be returned. Im not going to 
require RSA to do any more in relation to this as it has arranged for the money to be 
returned and I havent seen anything to persuade me that this error caused H a loss or 
significant inconvenience. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome H was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman