DRN-1984399
The complaint
Mr H complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) acted irresponsibly when it 
granted him two credit card accounts, both with a credit limit of £200.
What happened
In May 2017, Mr H applied online for a credit card account with Capital One. In the 
application, Mr H said he was employed with an income of £29,854. Capital One completed 
a credit search and assessed the information this returned. It approved Mr Hs application 
with a credit limit of £200.
In October 2017, Mr H applied online for a second credit card account with Capital One. In 
this application, Mr H said he was still employed with an income of £29,854. Capital One 
completed a credit search and assessed the information this returned together with the 
information it itself held about Mr Hs management of his May 2017 account. It approved 
Mr Hs application with a credit limit of £200.
In September 2018 Mr H started to incur charges on both accounts for failing to make the 
required minimum monthly payment (at least in full) and for going over his credit limits of 
£200.
Between October 2018 and February 2019 Capital One issued Mr H with a number of 
arrears notices. It then, on both accounts, issued Mr H with a default notice. After issuing 
default notices on both accounts Capital One then ceased debiting interest and charges.
In August 2019 Mr H complained to Capital One that it had acted irresponsibly in granting 
him both accounts. He said that it didnt do enough to check his financial situation before 
doing so. 
Capital One didnt agree it had acted irresponsibly. It said it used the information he had 
provided and completed the necessary checks to ensure the credit was affordable. 
Unhappy with the response from Capital One, Mr H brought his complaint to our service. An 
investigator looked into the matter. He found that Capital One had acted responsibly and 
didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed and so his complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can confirm that Ive come to the same overall outcome as the 
investigator, for broadly the same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to what 
has already been said.
Its clear Mr H has very strong feelings about this complaint. He has provided detailed 
submissions in support of his view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr H will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
When lenders look at any application to borrow money, they need to make sure there are 
proportionate checks in place. The checks should ensure that any credit thats approved is 
affordable and sustainable for the borrower. Theres no set list of checks a lender must 
complete and its up to each business to decide how it wants to approach assessing 
applications. But I think its fair to expect them to consider the information provided to them 
in the application by the borrower, a review of their credit history and any other information it 
may already know about that person. So, what I need to consider is whether I think the 
checks completed by Capital One were reasonable based on the credit it provided.
Mr H says Capital One should have asked for and checked salary slips in support of his 
declared income. But the fact that it didnt doesnt mean it has been irresponsible  in some 
circumstances it wont be unreasonable for a lender to rely on information it has been given 
on an application when deciding if credit should be provided. This is especially in 
circumstances  such as in this case  where the consumer is lent a relatively small amount 
and it needs to be repaid within a reasonable period of time rather than all in one go. It 
should also be noted that Mr H isnt saying that he wasnt, at the material times, earning the 
£29,854 he declared he was. So Im not persuaded that Capital One has done anything 
wrong here.
Capital One completed a credit search on Mr H on both occasions and it has provided our 
service with the results of these searches for me to review. 
In respect of the first account the search results, in summary, show:
In late 2015/early 2016 Mr H had three mail order accounts recorded as being in 
default and not satisfied, all with balances under £200.
Between early 2016 and early 2017 Mr H had settled approximately 30 short-term 
loans varying between £50 and £550.
In early 2017 Mr H had three short-term loans open all with outstanding balances of 
under £200.
In early 2017 Mr H had one hire purchase agreement open with an outstanding 
balance of under £8,400 (original advance of approximately £14,800)
In early 2017 Mr H had two credit cards open both with outstanding balances of 
under £800 (credit limits £800, £500).
In early 2017 Mr H had one loan open with an outstanding balance of under £3,600 
(original advance of approximately £3,700).
In early 2017 Mr H had a current account with no overdraft being utilised.
In respect of the second account the search results, in summary, show:
In late 2015/early 2016 Mr H had three mail order accounts recorded as being in 
default and not satisfied, all with balances under £200.
Between early 2016 and late 2017 Mr H had settled approximately 50 short-term 
loans varying between £50 and £550.
In late 2017 Mr H had one short-term loan open with an outstanding balance of under 
£700In late 2017 Mr H had five short-term loans open all with outstanding balances of 
under £100.
In late 2017 Mr H had one hire purchase agreement open with an outstanding 
balance of under £7,400 (original advance of approximately £14,800)
In late 2017 Mr H had one credit card open with an outstanding balance of under 
£1,200 (credit limit £1,200).
In late 2017 Mr H had three credit cards open all with outstanding balances of under 
£600 (credit limits £500, £600, £200).
In late 2017 Mr H had one loan open with an outstanding balance of under £2,600 
(original advance of approximately £3,700).
In late 2017 Mr H had one mail order account open with an outstanding balance of 
under £100 (credit limit £100).
In late 2017 Mr H had a current account with no overdraft being utilised.
Now having reviewed these search results, and given the income Mr H says he was earning 
in May 2017 and October 2017, Im satisfied that the granting of both accounts (with 
relatively low credit limits) wasnt irresponsible as the information indicates that it wasnt 
unreasonable to expect Mr H to be able to make payments to clear both balances within a 
reasonable period of time.
Secondly, whilst Mr H had, in October 2017, taken out a number of further short-term loans, 
none of these were showing as being in default or being delinquent and he had at this point 
in time been managing his first account in line with its terms and conditions. For 
completeness I would also add that Ive seen nothing in the credit report dated 
December 2019 provided by Mr H that contradicts the credit search information Capital One 
has provided our service for review.
Now I accept that that Capital One appears to have made no enquiries of Mr Hs expenditure 
and outgoings in May 2017 or October 2017. But in my view given Mr Hs declared income, 
the credit checks that were undertaken and the credit limits ultimately granted, Im of the 
view that not to have not done so was, in the particular circumstances of this case, 
proportionate.
The decision on whether to provide credit to an individual is ultimately down to the lender 
and the fact that Mr H may have had some historical payment issues doesnt necessarily 
mean he shouldnt have been considered for the accounts, where the information to hand 
suggested hed be able to make the necessary payments. 
Capital One has shown that it followed a process to see if Mr H met its lending criteria for the 
credit and Im satisfied that these checks were proportionate, based on the amount of credit 
being granted. 
I consider that the lending was done responsibly. And given that Capital One has ceased 
debiting interest and charges since May 2019 on both accounts I find that it need do nothing 
more, at this stage at least, to assist Mr H. I would also add that given Mr Hs management 
of both accounts and the various letters sent by Capital One, I find that Capital One has 
done nothing wrong in registering the information it has with credit reference agencies, 
including recording both accounts as being in default. Finally, and for the sake of completeness, I would add that regardless of what concerns Mr H 
night have about Capital Ones final response letter, including whether it meets the 
regulators definition of one, I cant see that these concerns have in themselves caused Mr H 
a loss or any detriment, for example led him not to refer his complaint to our service in time. 
Therefore I see no reason to make any award in this respect.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, although I would remind 
Capital One (Europe) plc of its obligations to continue, whilst Mr H is in financial difficulties, 
to treat him positively and sympathetically.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman