DRN-3588593
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy with the actions of Santander UK Plc (Santander) after she reported 
being a victim of fraud. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont go into too much 
detail here. However, in summary, Miss L was a victim of fraud - multiple transactions were 
made using her debit card details online. 
When Miss L noticed the transactions on her account, she immediately contacted 
Santander. As the transactions had not yet been processed, Santander advised Miss L to 
get in touch with the merchant who the transactions had been made to initially and it said it 
would be back in contact with her. Miss L received a refund of all the transactions from the 
merchant directly, on the same day they left her account. However, she is unhappy that 
Santander did not follow up on the fraud report. 
Miss L had also requested a new card and PIN and she was unhappy they were both 
received to her apartment building on the same day. Miss L called Santander to complain 
about this, stating that her new card and PIN should have been sent on different days as 
someone couldve obtained them both from the communal area in her apartment building 
and gained access to the funds in her account. 
Miss L was put through to a Santander call agent in Santanders complaints team but 
ultimately, the conversation broke down and was terminated. Unhappy with how this 
conversation went, Miss L made a further complaint about how she was treated during this 
telephone call alongside the other customer service concerns that I have set out above. 
Santander did not uphold Miss Ls complaint. Unhappy with Santanders response, Miss L 
brought her complaint to this service and one of our investigators looked into things. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She reviewed Santanders internal records and 
confirmed that Miss Ls new card and PIN had been sent on different days. So, she thought 
that the fact they arrived on the same day mustve been down to delays with the postal 
service, which it wouldnt be fair to hold Santander liable for. She also listened to a 
recording of the conversation that took place between Miss L and Santanders call agent. 
Having done so, she said she didnt think the call agent had been deliberately rude. So, she 
didnt ask Santander to pay Miss L compensation. 
Miss L didnt agree with the investigators findings. She reiterated that Santander shouldve 
sent her fraud documents after it said it would and she wasnt happy that she had to resolve 
the issue surrounding the disputed transactions herself and that no-one contacted her to 
make sure her account was safe. She said she had received her card and PIN on the same 
day and sending them out one day apart wasnt good enough. She also requested to be 
sent a recording of the conversation that took place between her and Santanders call agent 
so she could offer further comment. Having had the opportunity to listen to the call, Miss L 
raised the following:
The call-handler did not address her by her title on three separate occasions. She 
felt as though he wasnt bothered and was doing this to deliberately anger her.
Santanders call-handler wasnt able to provide her with any answers as to her 
questions about fraud. She had been told that he would be able to do so.
She was on the call for over an hour, but her complaint was not resolved.
The call-handler raised his voice to her and terminated the call.
As an agreement has not been reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided to not uphold this complaint and I will address each of Miss 
Ls points in turn:
I dont think it was unreasonable for Santander to have initially told Miss L to contact 
the online merchant that the fraudulent transactions had been paid to. The 
transactions were still showing as pending on Miss Ls Santander account and 
Santander couldnt raise a dispute about them until they had been processed. So, 
directing Miss L to the merchant in the first instance would likely mean the issue 
could be resolved more quickly. And I understand that it was, the merchant refunded 
the transactions straightaway which Santander would not have been able to do.  I 
appreciate that Miss L is unhappy with the lack of contact from Santander from this 
point onwards but there was no need for any further contact from Santander. The 
disputed transactions had been refunded by the merchant and there shouldnt have 
been any concerns about the security of her account. The card that had been used 
to make the transactions had been blocked and a new one ordered. 
Santander has been able to provide screenshots of its internal systems that show 
Miss Ls new card and PIN were sent on different days. I understand that they were 
ultimately received on the same day but as the card and PIN were sent separately, 
this isnt something I can hold Santander liable for. There is no obligation on 
Santander to send the card and PIN three days apart.  
I have listened to a copy of the recording of the conversation that took place 
between Miss L and Santanders call-handler and having done so, I am not 
persuaded that the call handler is being intentionally rude or obstructive and I am 
not of the opinion that he is doing things to deliberately anger Miss L either. I 
acknowledge that he does mis-pronounce her name slightly on more than one 
occasion but I also have to acknowledge that the call, during its later stages, 
becomes a little heated, and it sounds to me like in the moment, Miss Ls last name 
is pronounced slightly incorrectly. And I dont think this amounts to the call-handler 
deliberately trying to anger Miss L.
I understand that Miss L had been told the call-handler would be able to answer her 
questions about Santanders fraud processes but ultimately, she had been put 
through to a call-agent in Santanders complaints team and so he wasnt aware of 
the exact processes they would follow. He does explain this to Miss L and he asks if 
she would like to be passed through to someone who could offer her some further 
detail. He also does also explain to Miss L that its likely the reason she wasnt contacted again was because the transactions had been refunded so there was no 
reason for additional contact from Santander. And so, I dont think hes actions here 
were unreasonable. 
I understand that Miss L feels that she left the telephone conversation with her 
complaint points having not been resolved. Its clear, having listened to the call, that 
she is unhappy with the answers she had been given. But Miss L not being happy 
with the answers being provided does not mean that there had been no attempt to 
provide her with an explanation as to what had most likely happened. The call-
handler had explained that he had checked Santanders internal systems and her 
card and PIN had been sent on different days and so them arriving on the same day 
had been out of Santanders control. He said he could confirm this in writing for her 
but could not send her the actual screenshot evidence as this would involve him 
providing her with other customers details which were all on the same report. He 
had also made some attempt at explaining the fraud process and had asked if she 
would like to speak to someone in the fraud team/department directly who could 
offer further detail - which Miss L had declined. So, whilst I appreciate that Miss L 
remained unhappy with the explanation she had been offered, this doesnt mean an 
explanation wasnt given at all and there wasnt any further information that 
Santander could provide her with at the time. 
Finally, I understand that Miss L felt the call-handler to be rude. She has said he 
raised his voice to her and ultimately terminated the call. I acknowledge Miss Ls 
concerns here and I agree that the conversation could have gone better than it 
ultimately did. Its clear that, towards the end of the conversation, both parties are 
becoming frustrated. It seems to me that Santanders call-agent has told Miss L all 
of the information he has. Miss L is unhappy with the explanation but there isnt any 
further information he can offer. Both parties begin speaking over each other and I 
acknowledge that the call-handler does raise his voice slightly. But, by this point, the 
conversation does appear to be going around in circles and there is no new 
information to be offered. So, whilst I do acknowledge that the call was terminated 
and the call could have been handled better than it was, I must weigh this up 
against the call becoming unproductive  which it was by this point. And I dont 
agree that Santanders call agent was acting so unprofessionally that a 
compensation award is now required. 
So, for the reasons outlined above, I do not uphold this complaint and I wont be asking 
Santander to take any further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman