DRN-2240093
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S are unhappy about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) dealt 
with a claim under their home emergency policy, which was part of their home contents 
policy.
What happened
Mr S and Mrs S contacted RSA to make a claim under their home emergency policy when 
their boiler stopped working. An engineer said he couldnt do the work because a cupboard 
needed to be removed to provide access. Mr S then removed the cupboard and another 
engineer visited to repair the boiler. The engineer fitted new parts and switched the boiler 
back on, at which point it started to leak. The engineer was unable to fix the leak. Another 
engineer attended, who didnt know how to fix the boiler. RSA then sent another engineer, 
who said the heating assembly needed to be replaced. The engineer returned two weeks 
later to carry out the replacement. While the engineer was working, a bolt snapped and he 
then told Mr S and Mrs S that the entire boiler system needed to be replaced.
Mr S and Mrs S complained to RSA. RSA said that the claim had reached the home 
emergency policy limit and, as the repair was unsuccessful, the boiler was deemed beyond 
economic repair. RSA waived the costs that had gone over the policy limit, said it would 
review any further evidence provided by Mr S and Mrs S about the issue with the boiler and 
offered £50 compensation because they had felt it necessary to raise a complaint.
Mr S and Mrs S complained to this service. Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. 
She didnt find that RSA was responsible for the boiler being beyond economical repair. 
However, she did think that Mr S and Mrs S were inconvenienced by the way the claim had 
been dealt with. She said that RSA should pay a further £200 compensation.
As Mr S and Mrs S did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 7 September 2020. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
The main issue in this complaint is that following work carried out by RSA, Mr S and Mrs Ss 
boiler had to be replaced. The question is whether this was due to the actions of RSA.
As part of this service looking at this complaint, RSA reviewed photos and the claim history 
and said:
The report from the engineer is not 100% clear. However it looks like when
trying to remove the old heater it has disturbed/split the boss in which it sits. This would 
unfortunately make the heater beyond repair. This is an unfortunate event but it does 
sometimes happen.
On that basis, I am satisfied that, by RSAs own admission, the boiler was damaged due to 
the actions of its engineer and that this resulted in RSA deciding that it couldnt be fixed. 
I need to consider what should happen as a result of this. There was clearly a fault with the 
boiler, as this was why Mr S and Mrs S contacted RSA in the first place. The first engineer 
carried out a repair but this resulted in a leak. Im unable to say whether that was due to poor 
workmanship or whether the repair highlighted an existing issue. Nonetheless, I can 
understand that Mr S and Mrs S were unhappy that the first repair resulted in another issue. 
The second attempt to fix the boiler resulted in RSA deciding it was beyond economical 
repair due to it exceeding the policy limit. I note that this is actually different to what the 
more recent review by RSA showed, which is that the boiler was beyond repair. These are 
not the same thing. The boiler being beyond economic repair meant that the boiler wasnt 
worth what it would cost to repair it. However, it being beyond repair meant that it wasnt 
possible to fix it. 
Im also aware that RSA told this service that the boiler being broken was an unfortunate 
event but it does sometimes happen. I havent seen any evidence that RSA warned Mr S 
and Mrs S of this possibility before the engineer attempted to carry out the repair, so that 
they could make an informed decision about how they wanted to proceed. It seems that RSA 
knew that boilers sometimes broke while repairs were being carried out and then couldnt be 
fixed, but I have no reason to think that Mr S and Mrs S knew this. I can therefore 
understand that they were surprised and unhappy about what happened and that they had to 
buy a new boiler following the engineers visit.
So, I dont think it is fair for RSA to refuse to take any responsibility for the boiler having to 
be replaced by arguing that this sort of issue sometimes happens. If the boiler had only been 
beyond economic repair, Mr S and Mrs S could have decided whether they wanted to invest 
more money in order to maintain it, even if RSA was unwilling to cover the boiler under its 
home emergency policy. As part of that, they might have chosen to buy a new boiler. 
However, because the part was unexpectedly, although I assume unintentionally, broken by 
the RSA engineer, Mr S and Mrs S had no choice but to buy a new boiler.
Im also mindful though that I dont know if it would have been possible to fix the boiler if the 
part hadnt been broken. It isnt clear what the overall condition of the boiler was before RSA 
sent its engineers, although I accept that it had been working before the original fault 
occurred. However, the boiler hadnt been serviced for several years and it was quite an old 
model. This doesnt mean that the boiler had necessarily reached the end of its life, but I 
think it was more likely than not that it would have to be replaced at some point in the not too 
distant future anyway, even if it had been possible to fix it.
As a result, I currently think that RSA should pay 50% of the cost of replacing the boiler and 
having it fitted. This is because its engineer broke a part that, by its own admission, made it 
beyond repair. But, given the age of the boiler, its overall condition not being clear due to the 
lack of servicing and that it wasnt certain whether, if the part hadnt broken, it was going to 
be possible to repair the boiler anyway, I dont think that RSA should pay the full cost of 
replacing it. I understand that Mr S and Mrs S have already had the boiler replaced, so they 
would need to provide RSA with appropriate evidence of the boiler and fitting costs.
I also think that RSA should pay Mr S and Mrs S some compensation. They had a series of 
visits from engineers, including some who were unable to carry out any repair at all. This 
meant that they were without hot water for some time.  So thinking about all of the 
circumstances, Im currently of the view that RSA should pay Mr S and Mrs S £200 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused as a result of how their claim was 
handled. To be clear, this is £200 in total, so £150 in addition to the £50 that RSA already 
offered.I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 7 October 2020.
RSA replied and said it had nothing further to add.
Mr S and Mrs S accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in line with my provisional decision 
and for the reasons previously given.
Putting things right
RSA should pay 50% of the cost of replacing the boiler and £200 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that the 
complaint about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc is upheld. As a result, I require it to:
Pay 50% of the cost of replacing the boiler, subject to Mr S and Mrs S providing 
appropriate evidence of the costs.
Pay £200 compensation.
Pay 8% simple interest on the cost of replacing the boiler from the date of the invoice to 
the date the money is paid.
If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S and Mrs S how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr S and Mrs S a certificate showing this if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman