DRN-3874882
The complaint
Mr W complains that Commsave Credit Union (Commsave) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr W took out a series of loans with Commsave from January 2015 to October 2021. Some 
of these were regular unsecured loans, others were revolving credit arrangements where Mr 
W was allowed to borrow up to an agreed limit at any time, with regular repayments. To keep 
things simple, I will refer to all of these as loans.
  
Mr W says he couldnt afford the credit. He says he had lots of debt elsewhere and that if 
Commsave had done proper checks it had would have known the credit was unaffordable for 
him. 
Commsave says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Mr W and it didnt see 
anything which might make it think he couldnt afford the loans. 
Our adjudicator thought that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. Commsave didnt agree 
and pointed out the differences in the objectives of credit unions to those of a commercial 
lender and its exemption from the Consumer Credit Act. Commsave said the adjudicators 
decision had held it to standards it was not bound by. Despite this, Commsave explained 
that it did conduct checks and those were reasonable and proportionate to the lending and it 
was fair for it to make decisions on the information that was available to it. It also objected to 
the adjudicator suggesting that Commsave should have done checks on Mr Ws partners 
income. Commsave also didnt agree that because the adjudicator considered Mr Ws first 
loan to be unaffordable that all subsequent lending was therefore automatically unaffordable, 
too.
There was initially a question about whether Mr Ws complaint was made in time under the 
rules we have to apply, because some of the loans were made more than six years before 
Mr Ws complaint. Our adjudicator explained in her view that she considered that the 
complaint had been made in time in relation to all of the loans. Commsave did not object to 
this, so I have not considered the matter further. But as Commsave did not agree with the 
adjudicators view on the merits of this complaint, it has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mr Ws complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as our adjudicator. I will explain why I 
have reached this decision.
Commsave is a credit union. Credit unions offer services including savings account and 
lending. They are self-help non-profit making co-operatives whose members pool their 
savings to provide each other with credit at a lower interest rate than may be found in 
commercial lending. Their lending is not subject to the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (as 
amended) where the interest charged does not exceed the statutory cap, which in this case 
it doesnt. Credit unions are subject to Financial Conduct Authority regulation, and it should 
adhere to the rules and guidance found in the Credit Unions sourcebook (CREDS).  While it 
is not subject to the usual rules and guidance in the Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) 
for firms subject to the Consumer Credit Act, I have kept CONC in mind when considering 
what good industry practice would have looked like at the time of Mr Ws applications. 
With this in mind, Commsave still had a duty to lend responsibly. In practice this means that 
it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W could afford to repay 
what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, how 
much borrowing Mr W had elsewhere and Mr Ws income and expenditure. There may even 
come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that 
the borrowing was unaffordable.
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect lenders to 
consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the loan being applied for, as 
well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application.
Over the period in question, Mr W borrowed around £12,000. Not all of this borrowing took 
place at the same time as some of it was paid off during the period, and some of it was in the 
form of revolving credit which meant as Mr W paid some of it off, he was allowed to re-
borrow up to an agreed amount. This means Mr W may have borrowed considerably more 
than £12,000 over the period. In addition, part of the unique nature of credit unions is that 
about a third of any loan is retained in a savings account which is interest-bearing. This 
means that Mr W would only receive (and pay interest on) about two thirds of each loan and 
would only have to make repayments on that amount.
Our adjudicator thought that Commsave hadnt taken account of all the information it had 
about Mr Ws financial circumstance when it decided to lend to Mr W. Commsave showed us 
the results of its checks at the time, which were rather limited. For example, they didnt 
provide a picture of how much Mr W had borrowed from other lenders or how much he was 
paying towards those debts.
 
However, the information did show that there had been 12 credit searches made in the 
preceding 12 months, with eight of those being in the preceding three months. Several of 
these were for loan applications, including a payday loan and there was a search from a 
debt collection agency.
I appreciate that credit unions are designed in part to lend to people who may not otherwise 
be able to access reasonably priced lending, so it may not be unusual to see this kind of 
activity on a borrowers credit history. But in Mr Ws case his declared household income 
and expenditure (and therefore disposable income) were such that the relatively frequent 
searches for credit and the appearance of a payday loan and a debt collection agency  
especially the latter  ought to have alerted Commsave to the possibility Mr Ws financial 
circumstances may not have been as solid at the figures he provided suggested. Mr W was 
asking to borrow £800 for a holiday - this represented less than a third of his calculated 
monthly household disposable income. And he wanted to pay it off over nearly a year, which is a long time for a relatively small amount with a household income of that declared and 
assessed.
 
Its not possible to say with certainty what Commsave would have seen if it had done more 
checks, because I cant know what checks it would have chosen to do. But I think it would 
have been reasonable in these circumstances for Commsave to ask Mr W about his other 
borrowing commitments. 
Mr W has provided evidence to show that in the four months before this borrowing he had 
incurred two defaults on other lending. He had also taken out other loans after those 
defaults, including three in the two months prior to his application, two of which were in the 
four weeks prior to his application. I think this indicates that Mr W was not managing his 
finances well and that he likely wasnt in a position to repay further debt sustainably.
Commsave has argued that our adjudicator didnt then go on to detail each of Mr Ws later 
loans individually, intimating that his financial position may have changed for the better. But 
Commsave hasnt provided any evidence to suggest that Mr Ws financial circumstances 
had got better. And from what I have seen of his circumstances they in fact got worse.
For example, in the period from the first loan to December 2018 his indebtedness, even by 
Commsaves measures, increased. Mr W had taken over 35 loans during this time; 
sometimes together and sometimes in quick succession. He incurred arrears and entered 
payment arrangements on several of these. He also incurred a default and a County Court 
Judgement in this time. He didnt declare that CCJ on the next application he made after that 
and because Commsaves checks were so limited at that point it didnt appear on its checks 
either. Indeed, in 2017 and the beginning of 2018 Mr W applied for a number of loans with 
Commsave which were declined because there was less than three months between his 
applications with the credit union, however as soon as the three month period expired Mr W 
applied again and was provided with the loans with little significant difference in the checks 
Commsave made. A later offer of a loan in February 2018 was withdrawn when Commsave 
belatedly realised that Mr W had incurred a CCJ in 2017, although it did lend to him again 
later in the same year.
 
There was then a gap of about 2 and a half years between applications - perhaps long 
enough for Mr Ws circumstances to have improved. In May 2021 Mr W applied for a loan of 
£2,000 for a holiday. Commsaves checks again showed a default on Mr Ws credit file from 
2018 which was still in default. While Commsave has provided copies of some of Mr Ws 
bank statements which suggests it did further checks at the time, these bank statements 
post-date the application. I think they were acquired for a later loan Mr W applied for in 
October of the same year. 
I think the presence of the unsettled default on Mr Ws credit record, along with his long 
history of borrowing with Commsave and the size of the loan, ought to have prompted 
Commsave to do more checks. 
I cant know for sure what Commsave would have seen in May 2021 if it had done more 
checks, but I think its fair to rely on the bank statements provided for the October 2021 loan 
to get an idea of what Mr Ws general outgoings and financial circumstances might have 
been. 
From those statements I can see that Mr W was rarely in credit in his current account. His 
outgoings regularly exceeded his income. There were numerous small gambling 
transactions. While gambling is legal, it can also be a sign of potential financial problems. 
And I can see that if Mr W hadnt been gambling he would have been in less debt. I think if 
Commsave had taken proper account of the evidence available to it, it would have realised 
that Mr W was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay his borrowing. 
So, on the evidence available to me, I dont think Commsave ought to have lent to Mr W in 
the way that he did. I think the whole lending was unaffordable for Mr W and it was likely he 
wouldnt have been able to repay it all in a sustainable way. I think Mr W lost out as a result 
of this.  
Putting things right
Commsave should not have provided the lending to Mr W. To settle this complaint 
Commsave should do the following:
Add up the total amount of money Mr W received as a result of having been given 
the loans.
Subtract the repayments Mr W has made from this amount.
If this results in Mr W having paid more than he received, any overpayments must be 
refunded along with 8% simple interest* calculated from the date the overpayments 
were made to the date of settlement.
If any capital balance remains outstanding, Commsave should arrange an affordable 
and suitable payment plan with Mr W. If no such arrangement can be agreed, Mr W 
can return to this service to make a further complaint.
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ws credit file relating to this loan 
when he has cleared any remaining balance.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Commsave to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mr W a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I have decided that Commsave acted unfairly when it gave Mr W the loans. To put things 
right I direct Commsave UK Plc to pay compensation as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman