DRN-1697783
 
Complaint
Mr S, Mrs S and Miss S complain that Nationwide Building Society failed to action their 
instructions and prevented withdrawals from their account.
Background
Mr S, Mrs S and Miss S have a joint account with Nationwide. Miss S says that she visited a 
branch of Nationwide, in October 2018, to make a withdrawal from the account. She was told 
that there was a restriction marked on the account because Royal Mail had returned post to 
Nationwide. Miss S completed a change of address form and was able to complete the 
withdrawal. She heard nothing further from Nationwide about the matter.
A year later, in October 2019, Mr and Mrs S visited a branch of Nationwide to discuss their 
accounts. They were informed that they still held a joint account with Miss S. Miss S 
contacted Nationwide to discuss this. She told Nationwide that it had been instructed to 
change this account into her sole name. Nationwide checked its systems. It said there was 
no record of a request to transfer the account into her sole name. 
It also told her that it held a restriction on her account which meant that she couldnt make 
withdrawals from the account. She was told that it would take about a week to remove the 
restriction. Miss S says that she was buying a car at this time and because she couldnt 
make withdrawals from the account she had to borrow money from her family.  Miss S 
complained to Nationwide about the service she had received.
Nationwide investigated her complaint. It acknowledged that it should have removed the 
restriction on withdrawals at the same time as the change of address was received. It said it 
had no record that Miss S tried to make a withdrawal in October 2019. It also said it had no 
record of a request to change the account into Miss Ss sole name but that it would do that if 
it received a completed instruction. It apologised to Miss S for the service shed received and 
paid her £125 by way of compensation. 
Miss S was not satisfied with the response from Nationwide and so she complained to our 
service. As the account was a joint account Mr S and Mrs S were also joined in the 
complaint.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He didnt uphold the complaint. Whilst he agreed 
that the level of service couldve been better he said that Nationwide had apologised and 
had paid Miss S £125. He thought this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. He 
also said that there was no evidence that a request to change the account into Miss Ss sole 
name had been received by Nationwide.
Miss S did not agree with our investigator. Mrs S also said that shed sent a letter to 
Nationwide requesting that the account should be changed to a sole account and that Miss 
S, Mr S and Mrs S had all attended a branch of Nationwide and completed a removal of 
account holder form. Nationwide checked its records again and made enquiries at the branches that the account holders usually visited. It said that there was no record of it having 
received a request to transfer the account into Miss Ss sole name. Our investigator said that 
in these circumstances he remained of the view that Nationwide had acted fairly and 
reasonably.
The account holders disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Miss S has told us about Nationwides failure to remove the restriction 
on the account. Nationwide has acknowledged that this was an error on its part. The 
restriction should have been removed in October 2018. Nationwide paid Miss S £125 by way 
of compensation for its error. Miss S isnt satisfied with this. She says that she wasnt able to 
make a withdrawal in October 2019 because the restriction was still in place.
Ive thought about what Miss S has said. Whilst I can see that there was a restriction on the 
account I can also see that when Miss S visited the branch in October 2018 she was able to 
carry out a withdrawal. I also havent seen any evidence that Miss S did request a 
withdrawal in October 2019 or in the period since October 2018. So, although Miss S may 
have thought that she couldnt make a withdrawal I dont think that Nationwide refused to 
allow her to do so. The evidence Ive seen only shows a withdrawal from the account several 
weeks later, in December 2019. So, whilst I agree that Nationwide should have removed the 
restriction in October 2018, Im satisfied that £125 is fair and reasonable compensation for 
the error that it made.
I can see that Mr and Mrs S want the account to be transferred into Miss Ss sole name. 
Nationwide has made enquiries with the branches which the account holders usually visit but 
says it has no record of having received a request to do this. So without anything to suggest 
that an instruction like this was made, its difficult for me to say that, on balance, Nationwide 
should have done anything differently here.
Nationwide has also said that it will comply with an instruction to do this once it is received. I 
can understand that the account holders are dissatisfied that they now have to resubmit the 
form. I agree that this may be inconvenient but I dont think its unreasonable for Nationwide 
to ask them to do this in circumstances where it says it didnt receive the original documents. 
Nationwide has confirmed it will change the account into Miss Ss sole name once the newly 
completed form is received. I dont require it to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S, Mrs S and 
Miss S to accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman