DRN-3816441
The complaint
Miss K complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk, lent 
to her without carrying out the suitable checks and if it had it would have seen she could not 
afford the loans. 
Miss K also complains that MoneyBoat has been unsympathetic and unhelpful in pursuing 
her for the debt. 
What happened
Using MoneyBoats records, Miss K took two loans in the same month of September 2021. 
Loan 2 repaid loan 1. 
Loan Approved Amount Repayment 
and termRepaid 
1 14 September 2021 £400  4 x £135.74 20 September 
2021 
2 20 September 2021 £1,500 6 x £463.58 open
After Miss K had complained, MoneyBoat wrote to her with its final response letter (FRL) in 
which it explained the process it underwent before approving the loans. It considered it had 
carried out the right checks and did not uphold her complaint. 
MoneyBoat described the manner in which it tried to assist Miss K after she missed her first 
repayment in October 2021. At first no repayment plan could be agreed as MoneyBoat said 
that Miss K failed to provide it with information about her finances. In or around 
December 2021 a repayment plan of £50 a month was agreed to but in February 2022 it was 
told Miss K had lost her job. Miss K asked for further reduced payments. MoneyBoat needed 
details of any redundancy money or whether Miss K was on Universal Credit and some 
information about her using an income and expenditure form (I&E) sent to it before agreeing 
to that. It did not receive one.
MoneyBoat said it received three loan applications from Miss K at the same time it was 
waiting for her I&E form in order to arrange the reduced repayment plan. MoneyBoat has 
said that in those new loan applications she had declared that she was still working and had 
sufficient funds to cover the repayments. After that, Miss K made an offer to pay £1 a month 
but this was refused by MoneyBoat and the £50 a month was accepted but not paid. 
MoneyBoat then accepted £10 a month for one month followed by four months at £20 to be 
reviewed at the end of that period. Since then a default has been issued in October 2022. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and did not uphold either of the parts of 
Miss Ks complaint.
Miss K disagreed with this and referred to her credit file which, she says, ought to have led 
MoneyBoat to realise she was not able to afford the loans. Her points are summarised here:
- MoneyBoat approved the second loan for me six days after the first. Miss K says this 
demonstrates she was robbing Peter to pay Paul 
- Her credit file at loan 2 would have shown she had 8 defaults and lots of open credit
- She questions the level of interest for loan 2 and says its too high
-The FCA state that lenders should offer a suitable forbearance and this isnt the case 
with MoneyBoat. They have failed to help me and my vulnerable circumstance.
- Miss K says her repayments of £50 a month are not affordable right now and yet 
MoneyBoat has refused to accept her reduced payments offer
-I am simply asking for all implications from my credit file to be removed along with 
the interest so i [sic]can focus on repaying the actual amount and get my life back to 
some normality.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Miss K could afford to pay back the amount 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. MoneyBoat s checks could have considered a number 
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and 
Miss Ks income and expenditure. With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, less thorough checks might have been proportionate. But certain factors might 
suggest MoneyBoat should have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable 
for Miss K. These factors include:
- Miss K having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
- The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be mor 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- Miss K having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing 
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
- Miss K coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss K.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Miss K could sustainably repay the loan  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss K was able to 
repay his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Miss Ks complaint.Interest rate
Miss K has raised the high levels of interest. I have reviewed the two loan agreements and 
these do fall into the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) definition of high cost short term 
credit (HCST). And a cost cap was introduced in January 2015  FCA CONC 5A  and 
these two loans do not breach that cost cap. And so, there was nothing illegal about the level 
of interest. It was what this lending company offers and the one Miss K approached for a 
loan. 
Miss K would have been presented with the details and the loan agreements in which the 
interest rate and the amounts to pay were set out clearly. And so, I do not accept that Miss K 
was unaware of this.
And lenders are free to set their own commercial interest rates when offering loans and so 
that is a policy decision for them and not something the Financial Ombudsman Service gets 
involved with. As the loan agreements do not breach the cost cap then I do not uphold this 
part of Miss Ks compliant. 
Loan 1
As well as obtaining information from Miss K about her income and her expenditure. 
MoneyBoat set out the information Miss K had given it and the figures on which it had 
calculated her disposable income in its FRL. So, I do not duplicate that here. But it 
calculated that on an income of £2,400 her disposable income for loan 1 was £798. And so, 
the repayments of just under £136 a month for four months looked affordable. 
It also obtained a copy of her credit commitments in a credit search, the results dated 
14 September 2021 have been sent to us and I have reviewed them. The headline 
information was that she had 16 live accounts (which can include bank accounts and 
telephone communication contracts) and her total outstanding debt was £17,020. 
My summary of what that set of results revealed to MoneyBoat was that she had gone 
through a difficult  time in 2018 as there were several historic defaulted accounts around that 
time, some of which had zero balances now, or had been settled or Miss K was paying a 
small sum to pay them down. These defaulted accounts ranged from a bank current account 
through to Advance Against Income (AAIs) type accounts and an unsecured loan. 
Other accounts were credit cards, one of which was at a zero balance and the other was 
almost at its limit (low value at £200) and she was paying around £46 a month for that one. 
Her overdraft on one of her bank accounts was £1,500 and as at the time of the credit 
search it showed she was £8 over with a balance of £1,508. 
There was an account which was labelled as an AAI and Finance Housing and the regular 
payment appeared to be £280 and in arrears for the same sum of £280 but it had been this 
way for a year. 
An element Id consider a concern was that Miss K appeared to have taken a new loan in 
June 2021, just a few months before approaching MoneyBoat, and its outstanding balance 
was £5,789, with repayments of £241 each month and she had not paid that for several 
months. 
Other accounts were motor insurance, mail order and telecoms all of which were either up-
to-date, had zero balances or were closed. 
So, overall, the historic debt and defaults were not, of themselves, a reason for a lender 
such as MoneyBoat not to have lent when she approached it for Loan 1. She was a new 
customer, it was due to be for a short term and the capital sum was only £400. Lenders such 
as this are used to  and often approached by  customers who have a poor credit history. 
I think that MoneyBoat carried out proportionate checks for this loan 1 and it proceeded 
knowing the up-to-date position about Miss Ks income, expenditure and her credit situation. I do not uphold Miss Ks complaint about loan 1.
Loan 2 
I do not know the circumstances surrounding Miss Ks second approach to MoneyBoat just 
six days after Loan 1 was approved. Either way  loan 1 was absorbed into loan 2 which 
was for a more significant amount of £1,500 and for a longer term. 
MoneyBoat obtained her income and her expenditure and it was much the same as before. 
So, it had calculated that she had a disposable income of around £743 a month. It had 
increased her expenditure figure by £323 which have been to cover off some of the credit 
commitments she had as seen on the credit search it had carried out again on 20 September 
2021. Those results one week later would have been very similar if not identical to the first 
credit search carried out a week before. And I say the point about MoneyBoats increase of 
her expenditure figure because Miss K had declared only £100 for credit commitments, but 
as I have outlined earlier I think it was likely higher than that each month.
Still, having done that, the loan looked affordable to Miss K. 
This was due to be a short term loan as is the nature of these sorts of loans and as I have 
explained, often people with poor credit records are customers of lenders such as this. And 
Miss Ks credit history was largely historic which may not have been a concern to 
MoneyBoat for a short term loan such as this.
The loan costing £241 a month may well have been one of the reasons MoneyBoat 
increased its expenditure figure for Miss K for loan 2 by £323. 
Either way, I consider that the checks were proportionate and I do not think that I would have 
expected MoneyBoat to have done more.
I do not uphold Miss Ks complaint about the loans 2. 
Forbearance
I took time to outline in some detail in the what happened part of this decision the events 
explained to me about how the loan repayments have proceeded. 
Ive reviewed account notes sent to us by MoneyBoat and it seems that Miss K has paid very 
little towards the loan and it is seriously in arrears.
MoneyBoat does have to treat its customer fairly and is not meant to avoid coming to 
agreements on repayments when its being offered. But it also must check that Miss K is 
able to afford a repayment and yet despite it asking for Miss Ks I&E to assess this, no 
formal one has been sent. 
In April 2022, after several months of asking, I see that Miss K informed MoneyBoat that her 
company for whom she worked had gone into administration a few months earlier. This was 
after she had fallen ill and been on sick leave. She told MoneyBoat in an email  not on an 
I&E form - her income in February 2022 was £1,144, her outgoings were rent £360, council 
tax £140, gas and electric £300, fuel £100 and insurance £190. That added up to £1,090 
leaving her £54 a month. It accepted £10 a month for a short time followed by £20 a month 
for four months at that point. But the payments did not go through. 
Those account notes cease in May 2022. I have a record of payments and I can see that 
Miss K paid £20 on 20 June 2022. And a text screenshot Miss K has sent to us to say that 
she had got into rent arrears and her car had broken down and so in August 2022 she said 
she has had to get a car on finance. And I am happy to accept the £50 a month payment 
plan. But MoneyBoats texted reply was that with an outstanding balance of £2,760 it would 
not be able to accept the £50 and so Miss K was welcome to pay in £50 each month but the 
collections department would still proceed with its calls and emails. Miss K was warned she 
risked legal action and default. By this time MoneyBoat had received very little repayment and the loan account was ten 
months in arrears. MoneyBoat wanted to know how she was able to pay for the car finance 
and wanted information about her income to be able to take things forward. Understandably 
MoneyBoat needed to know what had changed from the email about her income and 
expenditure in February 2022 when in August 2022 she was able to take out car finance.  
So, I do not consider that unreasonable. 
A default notice was issued on 4 October 2022. In my view, the actions of MoneyBoat are 
consistent with the guidance issued by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). The 
ICO is the body created which deals with an individuals data, and it has released a 
document called Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at 
Credit Reference Agencies. It is entirely reasonably to rely on this, because in my view, it 
constitutes good industry practice.
Principle 3 is entitled If you offer or make a reduced payment, how it is reported will depend 
on whether it is agreed with the lender.
It goes on to say:
Should a temporary reduction in the payment amount be jointly agreed between you 
and your lender, this arrangement will be recorded at the CRAs.
and
If your lender agrees to give you a temporary arrangement, but you fail to make the 
agreed payment against the new terms, they may still file a default (see Principle 4 
below) as soon as a payment is missed, as long you were at least 3 months in 
arrears on the original agreement.
The ICO is clear, all the time that had Miss K arranged a formal repayment plan and then 
had stuck to her repayment plan a default may not have been issued or be recorded on her 
credit file. 
Turning to Principle 4, which is mentioned above  titled If you fall into arrears on your 
account, or you do not keep to the revised terms of an arrangement, a default may be 
recorded to show that the relationship has broken down.
The Principle then goes on to say;
As a general guide, this may occur when you are 3 months in arrears, and normally 
by the time you are 6 months in arrears. 
There are exceptions to this which may result in a default being recorded at a later 
stage, such as secured or long term loans e.g. mortgages, or if the product operates 
in a more flexible way e.g. current accounts, student loans, home credit. 
If an arrangement is agreed (see Principle 3 above), a default would not normally be 
registered unless the terms of that arrangement are broken.
Overall, I think that MoneyBoat has been fair and reasonable with its approach but Miss K 
has not kept to earlier repayment plans even the informal ones. The Financial Ombudsman 
Service must look, in an impartial way, to see if the lending business have done something 
wrong. It does not appear to have done. 
I am sorry to hear that Miss K cannot really afford the £50 repayment at the moment. 
It may be that debt advice is required at this point to assist Miss K in managing her debt 
commitments in a structured way. I note that MoneyBoat signposted her to those sort of debt 
advice charities in October 2021 after she had informed MoneyBoat she had gone off work 
sick. But I do not think that MoneyBoat has done anything wrong in the way it has 
approached Miss K for the debt.
I do not uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold her complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman