DRN-4112327
The complaint
Mr M complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Personal Finance lent 
to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr Ms complaint is about a loan provided by Novuna. The loan was advanced in July 2022 
and was for £10,000 repayable by 48 monthly repayments of £334.37.
Mr M complained that Novuna lent to him irresponsibly.
Novuna didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had done enough to check that Mr M could 
afford the repayments before it agreed to lend to him.
Mr M remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said he didnt think Novuna had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks and said that Novuna shouldve done more to obtain 
detailed information about Mr Ms income and expenditure. The investigator said that if 
reasonable and proportionate checks had been carried out, these wouldve shown that Mr M 
wasnt likely to be able to sustainably repay the loan.
Novuna didnt agree. It said it had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before 
agreeing to lend to Mr M.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Ms complaint.
Novuna needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to ensure that it didnt lend to Mr 
M irresponsibly. This means it shouldve carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mr M could repay the loan in a sustainable way. These checks could take 
into account a number of things, such as the loan amount, the repayments amount and Mr 
M's income and expenditure.
Mr M declared an income of £38,000 when he applied for the loan. Novuna validated this 
using data obtained from credit reference agencies and estimated Mr Ms net monthly 
income as £2,449.
Novuna carried out a credit search and saw that Mr M had existing credit commitments of 
around £13,300 with monthly credit repayments of around £668. Novuna used this 
information to assess whether Mr M could afford the loan. The loan repayments were £334 
per month. Novuna calculated that this would leave Mr M with around £1445 per month for 
all other expenses.
Ive thought about whether the checks carried out by Novuna were reasonable and 
proportionate. In doing so Ive had regard to the amount of the loan and the term over which 
it was being repaid, as well as the other relevant factors Ive mentioned.
The amount of the loan was substantial, and Mr M was already repaying a significant 
amount of existing credit. The repayments on this loan meant that Mr Ms total monthly credit 
repayments were over £1000, over 50% of his estimated net monthly income. In the 
circumstances, I think Novuna shouldve carried out further checks to verify Mr Ms income 
and expenditure. 
I cant be certain of what further checks Novuna would have carried out. So Ive looked at the 
bank statements provided by Mr M covering the period leading up to the loan. 
The statements show that Mr M was receiving average monthly income of £2707. They also 
show that Mr M was paying rent and household costs, and child maintenance payments.
Looking at all of Mr Ms regular expenditure, including credit repayments (but before taking 
the new loan repayments into account), Mr M had monthly disposable income of around 
£300. This wasnt enough to meet the new loan repayment of £334.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think the checks carried out by Novuna were reasonable 
and proportionate. If Novuna had have carried out reasonable and proportionate checks I 
think it wouldve concluded that Mr M wasnt likely to be able to sustainably repay the loan. 
Putting things right
Mr M wants the loan written off. I dont think its fair to ask Novuna to do this because Mr M 
has had the benefit of the money. Instead, I think Novuna should refund the interest and 
charges applied to the loan.
Novuna must:
Add up the total amount Mr M received as a result of being given the loan. Deduct the 
repayments made by Mr M.
If this results in MR M having paid more than he received, any overpayments should be 
refunded together with 8% simple interest calculated from the date the overpayments were 
made to the date of settlement.*
If any capital balance remains outstanding, Novuna must arrange an affordable payment 
plan with Mr M
*HMRC require Novuna to deduct tax from the refund of interest. Novuna must give Mr M a 
certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as 
Novuna Personal Finance must take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Emma DavyOmbudsman