DRN-2483181
The complaint
Mr S complains Crowdcube Capital Limited (Crowdcube) provided misleading information 
about an investment opportunity on its crowdfunding platform. He wants Crowdcube to 
refund his investment.
What happened
Mr S made an investment in a company (A) through Crowdcubes platform in 
February 2018 for £1,500. A specialised in the manufacturing of yachts and power boats. 
Towards the end of 2019, A became insolvent resulting in Mr S losing all the money hed 
invested. 
Mr S complained to Crowdcube. He said the insolvency had come about because of a long 
running dispute A had with one of its customers  the settlement resulted in A having to pay 
in excess of £1m. As the dispute pre-dated Crowdcubes promotion, Mr S thought 
Crowdcube ought to have known there was a threat of litigation, and that it ought to have 
disclosed this information to investors. Because it hadnt, Mr S said Crowdcube hadnt 
performed sufficient due diligence to ensure the pitch it promoted was fair, clear and not 
misleading. 
Crowdcube didnt agree. It said before approving the pitch for promotion, it had carried out a 
number of checks in line with its due diligence charter. Crowdcube had asked A to complete 
a legal review document which posed a number of questions, including whether the 
company was involved in or being threatened with litigation  to which A mentioned another 
lawsuit in which it had commenced proceedings against a separate company for breach of 
contract and outstanding debt.
One of our investigators looked into Mr S complaint but didnt think Crowdcube had done 
anything wrong. In summary, he said:
Crowdcubes terms and conditions said investors made their own decisions to invest, 
and Crowdcube didnt provide any recommendations or advice
Crowdcube werent required to perform prescribed amounts of due diligence, but he 
acknowledged it had specifically asked A to disclose threatened or active litigation 
and it was entitled to rely on the information it was provided with
if A had failed to disclose information to Crowdcube, we wouldnt find against it so 
long as the information wasnt publicly available 
and ultimately, from everything hed seen Crowdcube had carried out sufficient due 
diligence to satisfy itself that the information included in the pitch wasnt misleading
Mr S didnt agree. His second submission referred to details contained in the judgement 
against A and the particulars of another of his cases that has been considered by this 
service. He said that whilst both Crowdcube and investors were evidently misled, only 
Crowdcube profited from the situation, whilst investors lost out. So, by not upholding the 
complaint, this would send a message that there would be no consequence to Crowdcube or 
companies that were looking to raise funds through the platform if false information was 
provided. As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. However, before I explain further, Id like to note that I do recognise Mr S 
strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided detailed submissions to support the 
complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. But it may be helpful to explain that my 
role is to consider the evidence presented by him and Crowdcube, and reach what is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of this case. 
The complaint is about the information Crowdcube supplied to Mr S. Mr S initially said that 
Crowdcube hadnt carried out sufficient due diligence before it promoted the investment. He 
thought it ought to have known about a particular threat of litigation or live litigation that 
occurred in April 2018; around two months after the promotion was advertised. His position 
since then is that even if Crowdcube was misled, he believes it would be unfair for 
Crowdcube to profit from the promotion and it would send the message that there would be 
no consequence if incorrect information was provided by third party companies looking to 
fundraise.
Ill start by addressing Mr S first argument. Ive taken into account the wider obligations on 
Crowdcube set by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The FCA Principles for Business 
(PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) set out the overarching 
requirements which all authorised firms are required to comply with. 
The most relevant here are PRIN 2.1.1R (2) which says: A firm must conduct its business 
with due skill, care and diligence and COBS 4.2.1R (1) which says: A firm must ensure that 
a communication or a financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading.
Ive borne in mind that the FCA said the following in its July 2018 consultation paper on loan-
based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms:
It is our view that it will be unlikely that a platform could argue that it has met its obligations 
under Principle 2, Principle 6 (PRIN 2.1.1R) and the clients best interests rule (COBS 
2.1.1R), if it has not undertaken enough due diligence to satisfy itself on the essential 
information on which any communication or promotion is based.
Ive also considered the FCAs guidance on approving financial promotions from 
November 2019 which explained that firms should: analyse, and carry out due diligence 
regarding, the substance of a promotion before approving its content for communication by 
an unauthorised person. The extent and substance of the analysis and diligence needed to 
be able confirm that a promotion is fair, clear and not misleading will vary from case-to-case 
and will depend on the form and content of the promotion.
So before approving As promotional material, Crowdcube needed to satisfy itself that the 
material itself was fair, clear and not misleading and enabled Mr S to make an informed 
decision of the risks associated by investing in A. To satisfy itself, Crowdcube would need to 
carry out reasonable checks. What these reasonable checks involve, or indeed what they 
might be in any given case, is something which is very much left to each provider to 
determine and would vary according to the particular circumstances. But what is clear is that it wasnt the regulators intention to provide a set of tick boxes which needed to be 
completed for a promotion to be approved.
Crowdcubes due diligence charter explains that it relies upon information provided by every 
applicant company and its directors who are required to ensure all information provided is 
true and accurate in addition to third-party tools to conduct some due diligence. As a part 
of those checks, Crowdcube reviewed information available in the public domain such as 
Companies House records. None of the information it had sought contained information that 
would have alerted Crowdcube to a second and separate court claim. But Mr S disagrees. 
He believes there would or ought to have been some knowledge of the claim.
Ive looked over the available records including the information Mr S has referred to  the 
judgement issued against A as well as the media articles. The judgement outlines the 
claimant began action in April 2018  two months after Mr A invested  with the case being 
decided in December 2019. The articles are around a similar time with the latest being from 
around January 2020. The evidence indicates that Crowdcube wouldnt have been aware of 
any material information about this litigation that could have affected As solvency at the time 
of the pitch. In my view, through its own searches, the earliest record Crowdcube could have 
found of this dispute would have been December 2019. So, it follows that Crowdcubes 
communication with Mr S about this investment was fair, clear and not misleading.
Moving to Mr S second point, he doesnt think its fair Crowdcube retain the profit they 
earned on the arrangement of his investment given investors lost out. For me to agree, Id 
need to see some evidence that Crowdcube acted outside of the terms it agreed to at the 
outset or otherwise treated Mr S unfairly, and that this caused his losses. But I havent found 
this to be the case. Crowdcube charged a fee to investors and companies looking to raise 
investment. The fee was to cover the value of services Crowdcube provided and continued 
to provide whilst the investment ran. It wasnt dependent on the success for either A or their 
investors. So, to my mind, Im not persuaded that Crowdcube would need to return this fee 
to the investors.
Additionally, at no point did Crowdcube agree to bear the risk of the investment failing, for 
any given reason. Crowdcubes terms made clear that the nature of investing in investment-
based crowdfunding presented a real risk to lenders. It explained:
 8.2. The Investor acknowledges that Crowdcube approves each Pitch as a financial 
promotion but does not provide advice or any form of recommendation regarding the 
suitability or quality of the Investment 
8.3. The Investor acknowledges and accepts that the Website includes a forum which is an 
integral part of an Investees Pitch which is intended as a service to Investees to put them in 
contact with Investors, and thus that Crowdcubes investigation of the Investees and the 
content of their Pitches is limited, and accordingly Crowdcube makes no warranty or 
representation and assumes no liability in respect of the Investees or the content of their 
Pitches. The Investor must make his/her own assessment of the viability, accuracy and 
prospects of the Investees, their Pitches, and any relevant investment propositions and 
should consult his/her professional advisers should he/she require any assistance in making 
such an assessment or should the Investor require any services whatsoever in connection 
with Crowdcube. In particular, the attention of the Investors is drawn to the disclaimer, risk 
warning and regulatory notice on each Pitch.
Crowdcube also displayed the following risk warning on its platform, Investing in start-ups 
and early stage businesses involves risks, including illiquidity, lack of dividends, loss of 
investment and dilution, and it should be done only as part of a diversified portfolio. In my opinion, in clear language Crowdcube sufficiently highlighted the risks involved in 
investing via crowdfunding such that they could be easily understood. 
Of course, if it failed in its responsibilities or treated Mr S unfairly, and that caused a loss, it 
ought to compensate him. But here, I dont think it did. Mr S losses were caused by the 
failure of the firm he invested in, not by Crowdcube. As such, it wouldnt be fair for that risk to 
be transferred to Crowdcube.
Im satisfied Crowdcube did all it needed to verify the information provided about the 
company. If Mr S feels the company misled him and caused him a loss, then he may have 
rights as a shareholder he can seek to enforce against the company itself. But it wouldnt be 
fair or reasonable in these particular circumstances to hold Crowdcube responsible for his 
losses.
Lastly, Mr S claims future companies looking to raise investment may be emboldened to 
make false statements on their pitch. Whilst I have a lot of sympathy for his position and the 
losses he experienced, I should say that I can only consider the actions of Crowdcube and 
limit that to what has actually happened. Taking into account all the factors Ive explained 
above, Im not persuaded it would be fair to hold Crowdcube responsible for the failure of A, 
or Mr S losing out on his investment.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman