DRN-3806074
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that Tedaisy Underwriting Limited gave her unclear information about 
the renewal of her pet insurance policy.  
What happened
Mrs W shed always insured her pet. In August 2020 she received an email saying the policy 
would renew on 13 September 2020. The premium quoted was £141.04. As Mrs W was 
happy with the renewal terms, she didnt think she had to take any action.
In February 2021 Tedaisy contacted Mrs W by email regarding her contact details. 
When Mrs W tried to make a claim under the policy in Autumn 2021 for over £500, she was 
told that she hadnt renewed the policy in September 2020. Mrs W then realised that at the 
end of the renewal letter it said she needed to contact Tedaisy to pay the premium if the 
premium was paid annually. She hadnt done that.
Tedaisy thought Mrs W should have noticed that she hadnt been invited to renew the policy 
in August 2021 and that she hadnt paid a premium since 2019.
Mrs W brought a complaint to this service. Our Investigator recommended the complaint be 
upheld. He thought the renewal letter was misleading and that Tedaisy should pay Mrs W 
£200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to her by that. 
Mrs W accepted our Investigators view and said she would donate the compensation to an 
animal charity. As Tedaisy didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what happened, taking into account the relevant rules and whats fair and 
reasonable. ICOBS requires Tedaisy to communicate with its customers in a clear and fair 
way thats not misleading.
Ive seen the invitation to renew that was sent to Mrs W in August 2020. The heading said:
Important information about your Pet Insurance Renewal which will be renewed on 
13/09/2020.
Further down on the first page there was another statement that the policy will be renewed 
on 13/09/2020.
The letter asked Mrs W to check that the cover still met her needs.
At the end of the third page the letter said:
If your policy is an annual payment, please contact us to make payment.
I dont think it was sufficiently clear from this that Mrs W needed to take some action I.e. pay 
the premium if she wanted the policy to renew. Some policies renew automatically with 
payment taken by direct debit and Mrs W might have thought from reading the first page that 
her policy was one of those especially as it quoted a monthly payment as well as the annual 
premium. 
Theres no evidence of any further contact from Tedaisy to Mrs W until it asked her to check 
her contact details in February 2021. In that email it said If you have any queries regarding 
this or your policy, please contact us on . So Tedaisy didnt, for example, contact her in 
Autumn 2020 to make it clear to her that the policy had come to an end. I think it was 
reasonable for Mrs W to assume that her pet was still insured in February 2021 because that 
is the most likely reason for Tedaisy needing to ensure it had the correct contact details for 
her.
I think the unclear renewal letter and the subsequent email about contact details may well 
have lulled Mrs W into a false sense of security. I also think Tedaisy should have let Mrs W 
know she no longer had cover. 
However I do have to take account of the fact that Mrs W should have been aware that she 
hadnt received any policy documentation or paid any premiums since 2019. 
In the circumstances I think Tedaisy should compensate Mrs W for the trouble and upset 
caused to her by the unclear wording of its renewal letter. It would have been distressing for 
Mrs W to find that she wasnt insured after all when she came to make a claim and any 
future policy she takes out is unlikely to cover her pets pre-existing condition. I think the sum 
of £200 is fair and reasonable to compensate Mrs W for the trouble and upset caused by 
that. 
Putting things right
To put things right I think Tedaisy Underwriting Limited should pay Mrs W compensation of 
£200.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Tedaisy Underwriting 
Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman