DRN-3738889
The complaint
Mr S complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as MINI Financial 
Services (BMW) didnt apply the full deposit he paid to his agreement.
 
What happened
In January 2022 Mr S acquired a new car through a hire purchase agreement with BMW. Mr 
S signed the documents for the agreement online, and requested a copy be sent to him by 
email.  
The documents were sent to Mr S in late January 2022, and he contacted the dealership 
shortly afterward to query the deposit amount. Mr S told the dealership that hed paid a 
£3,000 deposit, but the agreement only showed a deposit of £2,650. He asked them to 
correct the figure, and he asked whether the correct deposit amount would mean his monthly 
payments would be less. 
The dealership responded to Mr S to explain that the deposit was correct, and Mr S 
complained to BMW in February 2022 as he didnt agree that it was. Mr S said he thought 
the dealership had used £350 toward a delivery fee, which the dealership had told him would 
be free. 
BMW sent Mr S their final response to his complaint in March 2022. They said the vehicle 
order form showed a total deposit of £2,650, as did the finance agreement that Mr S signed. 
They said a delivery charge wasnt part of the agreement, and he may need to discuss his 
concerns directly with the dealership. 
Unhappy with this, Mr S brought his complaint to this service for investigation. He said hed 
paid a total of £3,000 to the dealership, so £350 had gone missing. Mr S said the dealership 
had also not provided him with a mini bike which had been agreed as part of the deal. Mr S 
wanted the £350 to be refunded to him, the bike to be sent, and £3,000 compensation for the 
frustration and drawn-out process. 
Our investigator gave his view that Mr S signed the agreement which detailed the deposit as 
£2,650. BMW had received £2,650 from the dealership as the deposit for the agreement, 
and so he couldnt ask them to refund the £350 as they hadnt received it. He said Mr S may 
want to complain to the dealership about the money that he paid to them. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said BMW are ultimately responsible for what happened, and the 
dealership website says to complain to them, so they should refund the £350.
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it. 
Its important to say that although the dealership and BMW share similar names, they are 
separate companies. I can only consider a complaint against BMW about the hire purchase 
agreement, and not the actions of the dealership. 
Ive seen the order form that the dealership supplied to BMW for the agreement, and this 
sets out that the cash price of the car was £20,000. It details a payment received from Mr S 
of £250, a further payment due from Mr S of £2,400, and that the amount to be financed is 
£17,350. 
The hire purchase agreement sets out the total amount of credit as £17,350, and an 
advance payment of £2,650. 
Ive also seen evidence of the agreement ledger from BMW, which sets out the payments 
under the agreement, and this details a cash deposit of £2,650. 
Mr S has provided evidence of two payments he made to the dealership, one for £250 and 
one for £2,750. 
Mr S says he paid a total deposit of £3,000, and this should be reflected on the agreement, 
or the difference refunded. I dont dispute that Mr S made these payments to the dealership. 
But, based on the evidence, Im satisfied that BMW received a total of £2,650 from the 
dealership as the cash deposit for the agreement. 
Mr S received the agreement setting out the deposit amount, so Im satisfied that he had an 
opportunity to query this before signing and entering the agreement.
As Ive set out above, BMW are a separate company to the dealership, and so I cant direct 
them to refund a payment that they didnt receive. Mr S may wish to complaint directly to the 
dealership. If he remains unhappy with their response, he might be able to ask the Motor 
Ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
Mr S said the dealership agreed to send him a mini bike, but he hadnt received it. Its not 
clear if this has now been sent to Mr S, but it doesnt form part of the hire purchase 
agreement with BMW, and so Mr S may wish to include this in his complaint to the 
dealership if its yet to be delivered.  
Mr S has asked for £3,000 compensation for the frustration and drawn-out process. For the 
reasons set out above Im satisfied that BMW have correctly recorded the deposit amount 
that they received for the agreement and provided the correct information to Mr S about this. 
So, Im not asking them to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman