DRN-2343093
The complaint
Mr B complains that a caravan acquired with finance from Black Horse Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
 
What happened
In March 2018 Mr B was supplied with a used caravan and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with Black Horse. The agreement was for 120 months with monthly repayments 
of £198.86. At the point of supply the caravan was around 1  years old.
Following collection of the caravan, Mr B raised some concerns about its condition, including 
concerns about cleanliness, bed slats broken, heating tripped, awning didnt fit and no 
external socket or BBQ point.
The supplier arranged for the caravan to be cleaned and showed Mr B how to fit the awning 
correctly. It said the heating had been tested prior to the pint of supply and was running 
when Mr B collected the caravan. It reset the heating but said it wasnt possible to fit a reset 
button to the system and that if it happened again the caravan would have to be returned to 
the dealer to reset the system. As a gesture of goodwill, the supplier put a 12 month auto 
protect warranty in place to take effect when the parts warranty expired in January 2019.
Mr B contacted the supplier again in August 2019 and reported a faulty window seal and a 
crack in the skylight, leading to damp. The supplier refused to repair the skylight. It said the 
caravan was out of warranty and that Mr B hadnt had the caravan serviced in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the agreement. 
Mr B was unhappy with the suppliers response and complained to Black Horse. He said he 
didnt think the caravan was of satisfactory quality.
Black Horse agreed to an independent inspection. The inspection report concluded that the 
issues were due to wear and tear.
Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think there was enough evidence to show that the issues with the 
skylight were present at the point of supply and that based on the reports, the issues were 
more likely to be due to wear and tear.
Mr B didnt agree. He said the person who carried out the inspection had told him that the 
cracks in the skylight were due to the way the caravan had been put together at the 
manufacturing stage. Mr B said hed queried the inspection report when it didnt mention this 
but had been told that it had been reviewed by someone after it had been written. Mr B said 
his own report stated that damage of this kind shouldnt happen in a caravan of this age. Mr 
B acknowledged that hed missed services on the caravan but said this wasnt his fault as 
hed been going through a traumatic time.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this service 
can consider complaints relating to it. Black Horse is the supplier of the goods under this 
agreement and it is responsible for a complaint about quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the 
goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory is what a reasonable person would regard as 
acceptable, taking into account factors such as the age of the goods at the point of supply 
and how long after supply the fault materialised.
In this case, the caravan was used at the point of supply. So, its reasonable to expect it to 
have a degree of wear and tear, and to be of a lower standard than a brand-new caravan.
I can see that Mr B initially experienced some issues with the cleanliness of the caravan, 
with an awning that didnt fit properly and with missing outdoor electric and BBQ points. 
Based on what Ive seen, these issues have been resolved and I wont be commenting on 
them further. Instead, Ill focus on those issues which continue to cause concern for Mr B, 
these being the crack in the skylight and the invalidated warranty.
An independent inspection can help to determine whether goods are of satisfactory quality. 
In this case, an independent inspection was carried out in March 2020. A further inspection 
was arranged by Mr B following the referral of the complaint to this service.
Ive looked at both reports. The first report says that the issue with the skylight is due to wear 
and tear and not unusual for a caravan of this age. I appreciate that Mr B disagrees with the 
report. He says he was told something different at the inspection and remains of the view 
that the fault is due to the way the caravan has been put together. Ive taken account of what 
Mr B has said. However, theres no evidence to suggest that the cracked skylight is a 
manufacturing defect, and theres no evidence that the inspector said to Mr B that the 
damage was a manufacturing defect, rather than wear and tear as he states in the report. 
Because of this, Im unable to say that the first report supports a finding that the caravan is 
of unsatisfactory quality.
The second report says that the crack in the skylight is as a result of stresses and strains 
that occur during towing. The inspector didnt think this kind of damage should occur in a 4 
years old caravan but said it was likely due to road conditions. I appreciate that Mr B has 
said he hasnt used the caravan very much, but even if thats the case, this doesnt mean 
that road conditions havent been a factor as the report suggests.
Based on what Ive read in the reports, Im unable to say that the skylight was cracked at the 
point of supply, or that it has cracked as a result of a manufacturing fault. Its more likely to 
be due to wear and tear
In relation to the warranty, and the requirements for servicing the caravan, Ive reviewed the 
available information and I can see that the supplier advised Mr B of the servicing date at the 
point of supply, and again when it responded to the first complaint. In order to keep the 
warranty valid, Mr B was required to have the caravan serviced at the required interval. I 
cant see that hes done this. Mr B has explained the reasons why he didnt have the 
caravan serviced, and whilst I sympathise with him, Im unable to say that Black Horse has 
acted unfairly in relation to the warranty.
Im aware that Mr B has raised some concerns about the part exchange value of the caravan 
now. This isnt something which was included in Mr Bs initial complaint and Black Horse hasnt had the opportunity to investigate and respond. Mr B will therefore need to raise a 
new complaint about this particular point.
In conclusion, and based on what Ive seen, Im unable to say that the caravan is of 
unsatisfactory quality. So I wont be asking Black Horse to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman