DRN-2862119
The complaint
Mrs C complains about a guaranteed income bond, sold by Police Mutual Assurance Society 
Limited (trading as Police Mutual).
What happened
In November 2017, Mrs C invested £25,000 in a guaranteed income bond, sold by Police 
Mutual. The sum invested was guaranteed to be returned at the fifth-year anniversary. This 
was a non-advised sale and the sales process took place by phone.
Mrs C withdrew the funds and closed the investment in August 2020, receiving £24,291.70. 
Mr T, on behalf of Mr C, complains that the product was misrepresented and mis-sold, in 
that: it was misleading to call the product a guaranteed bond especially as the guaranteed 
sum was only open for thirty days from the five-year anniversary date, the charges payable 
to fund managers were not clear from the projections and no information was provided about 
past performance of the bond. Finally, it was morally wrong to sell the product to Mrs C, who 
was suffering from a health condition at the time. 
Police Mutual say the product was a non-advised stocks and shares investment. Police 
Mutual provided information about the product and it was for Mrs C to decide whether to 
proceed; they did not make a recommendation to invest. This was a medium to long-term 
investment and whilst the sum invested was guaranteed at the five-year anniversary, 
investors risked getting back less than they invested if funds were withdrawn before this 
date. Mrs C and her husband spoke to the adviser at the time and the key features of the 
product were explained over the phone. Projections were set out in the key features 
documents and Mrs C had the option to cancel the policy within thirty days. Mrs C gave clear 
instruction to withdraw the funds in 2020, before the five-year point and was told that she 
would be withdrawing less than originally invested.
Our investigator considered the complaint. He concluded Police Mutual hadnt done anything 
wrong.  He thought Police Mutual hadnt provided advice about the product and the 
information they did provide, both in writing and during the sales call, was clear, fair and not 
misleading. Our investigator agreed that the terms and conditions did not explain that the 
guaranteed sum was open for thirty days after the five-year anniversary. But he thought this 
was adequate time to decide whether to withdraw the funds. Further, there was nothing to 
show that Mrs C would have made a different decision if she had known about the thirty-day 
timeframe. Our investigator was satisfied that Police Mutual had provided projections in line 
with the rules set by the Financial Conduct Authority. Further, they had set out the potential 
impact of charges. Our investigator confirmed that there was no regulatory requirement to 
provide information about past performance.
Mr T, on behalf of Mrs C, disagrees with the view. He feels strongly that the bond was 
misrepresented as being guaranteed given the window to withdraw was so short, only being 
open for thirty days after the five-year anniversary date.
The matter has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im mindful that memories fade with time, so Ive considered the information available to 
Mrs C at the point of sale, namely, in the sales call and Ive read the key features document. 
Ive also listened to the withdrawal call. 
It isnt disputed that Mrs C has a health condition, but theres nothing to show that she didnt 
have capacity to make decisions at the time the bond was taken out.
Having reviewed the sale process, Im satisfied that Police Mutual didnt advise Mrs C to 
take out the bond. Its evident from the time that Mrs Cs husband called Police Mutual 
directly about bonds and Police Mutual provided information directly to Mrs C about the 
product. So, whilst Police Mutual didnt have to assess whether they bond was suitable for 
Mrs Cs needs, they were required to provide clear, fair and not misleading information about 
it.
During the call, the adviser talked through the product and explained that the sum invested 
would be guaranteed at the five-year anniversary date. On at least two occasions, she 
explained that Mrs C might get back less than she invested if she withdrew before the five-
year point. Mrs C would also have received a key features document. That document 
explained that investors were guaranteed to get back what they paid in but only at the five-
year guarantee points. Less might be received with an earlier withdrawal. Projections were 
provided for a ten-year investment period with gross returns of 1.5%, 4.5% and 7.5%. It was 
explained that costs would be paid to external fund managers. The cost of charges was 
shown in a table, followed by a series of projections at years 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 10 factoring in 
the impact of those charges.
On balance, I consider that clear, fair and not misleading information was provided about 
how the guarantee worked and the risk of receiving less than the amount invested with an 
early withdrawal was made clear. I dont agree that lack of information about a thirty-day 
acceptance period at the five-year point meant that the guarantee wasnt legitimate. That 
wasnt an unreasonable period of time in which to make a decision and it was clear that the 
guarantee only operated at the five-year points and not in between. Theres nothing to show 
that Mrs C would have made a different decision at the time. It was very clear from the call 
that the purpose of the investment was to safeguard the sum invested over the next five 
years. And Ive also borne in mind that the thirty-day period didnt cause her to lose out, 
Mrs C received back less than she had paid in because she withdrew the funds early. 
The key features document explained the impact of charges on the estimated returns and 
neither did Mrs C, or anyone acting on her behalf, raise concerns about this at the time. And 
as our investigator has explained there was no requirement for Police Mutual to provide 
information about past information. And in any event, that information wouldnt have given a 
guarantee about future performance. 
I recognise it would have been disappointing for Mrs C to receive back less than she paid 
into the bond, but Im satisfied that clear, fair and not misleading information was given about 
this risk, so I cant fairly say that Police Mutual did anything wrong. Ive also noted Mr Ts 
comments that Mrs C did require access to her funds at this time.My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs C, but for the reasons given, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman