DRN-3968435
The complaint
Mr L complains about the handling and decision to decline cover for a claim he made on a 
legal expenses insurance policy provided by Amtrust Europe Limited.
The administration of Mr Ls claim, and his complaint, was dealt with by a representative on 
Amtrusts behalf. Where I refer to Amtrust in this decision, this includes this representative.
What happened
Mr L holds legal expenses insurance with Amtrust, as an extension to a home insurance 
policy. Hes held cover with Amtrust on a continual basis since 2018. Prior to this, he held 
legal expenses insurance with another insurer, who Ill refer to as D.
Mr L was dismissed from his job in 2020. At that time, hed started employment tribunal 
proceedings against his employer, alleging among other things, discrimination and lack of 
whistle blowing protections. He said the incidents which had caused him to start the 
proceedings started in 2015. Mr L had submitted a claim to D in relation to those 
proceedings, which D covered.
Mr L sought to make a further claim, in order to start proceedings against his employer for 
unfair dismissal. D said that because hed been dismissed in 2020, the claim should be 
submitted to Amtrust.
Amtrust initially declined cover for the claim as it said the prospects of Mr L succeeding in his 
unfair dismissal proceedings was less than 50%. After further information was provided, it 
concluded Mr Ls claim did have reasonable prospects of success but the matters which had 
led to his dismissal had started in 2015. A condition of the policy required the incident which 
gave rise to the claim to occur during the period when Amtrust was providing insurance. 
Amtrust suggested the claim should be submitted to D as it had been insuring Mr L in 2015.
D said it considered the incident which gave rise to the claim to have been when Mr L was 
dismissed, and so the claim should be considered by Amtrust. Mr L complained to Amtrust 
when it maintained its decision to decline cover for the claim.
Mr L referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator thought Amtrust had acted 
reasonably. Mr L didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He points to a 
colleague, Mr A, who was dismissed at the same time as him, for the same reasons and who 
had also initiated employment tribunal proceedings relating to whistle blowing and 
discrimination. Mr A holds insurance with D and Mr L says hes made a successful second 
claim for his costs relating to the employment tribunal.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two, linked points I think its important to address before outlining my findings in 
relation to Mr Ls claim with Amtrust. These are in relation to D, and its actions.
Firstly, Mr L made a claim with D for the costs relating to his first claim. Ds position is that 
the second claim should be made with Amtrust, as it insured Mr L in 2020, when he was 
dismissed. It isnt for me to say whether or not D acted fairly. Im only considering whether 
Amtrusts actions were reasonable. Im aware Mr L made a complaint to D, and referred that 
complaint to our service. Our investigator thought it was fair for both claims to be considered 
as arising from the same events, and so only one indemnity limit would be applied.
Similarly, I cant comment on Ds response to Mr As claims. Mr Ls told us D accepted a 
second claim in order for the unfair dismissal to be pursued. Im not party to the decisions 
made by D on those claims, and it has no relevance to my considerations about Amtrust, 
and whether it has fairly declined cover for Mr Ls claim. Simply because another insurer has 
accepted cover for a similar claim, theres no obligation on Amtrust to also provide cover. 
Amtrust initially declined to cover Mr Ls claim because it said that a solicitors assessment of 
the claim was that it didnt have reasonable prospects of success. In common with many 
legal expenses insurance policy, Mr Ls policy with Amtrust requires that theres a greater 
than 51% chance of a claim being successful in order for it to be covered. These conditions 
arent generally considered to be unfair as its unreasonable to ask an insurer to fund legal 
proceedings which are unlikely to be successful.
Our position with assessments around the prospects of success of a claim is that we 
generally say its reasonable for an insurer to rely on these, unless there are obvious factual 
errors, which would be apparent to a layperson. I havent been made aware of any 
suggestion that the advice given to Amtrust contained such errors. I also think the 
assessment gave reasons, explanations and justifications for the conclusions reached. Im 
satisfied Amtrust could fairly rely on the initial assessments that Mr Ls claim didnt enjoy 
reasonable prospects of success.
However, Im aware that after further information was provided, solicitors did conclude Mr Ls 
claim had reasonable prospects of success. That doesnt mean the first assessment was 
wrong, or Amtrust acted unreasonably by relying on it. It seems to me the further information 
hadnt been available to the solicitor reviewing the claim at the time of the original 
assessment, and it was the additional information which changed the solicitors opinion.
It was after the final assessment that the main element of this complaint arose. This is the 
question of when the matters which give rise to the claim occurred. This is relevant because 
of the policys terms and conditions which say:
The insurance covers costs as detailed under the separate sections of cover, less any 
excess up to the maximum amount payable where:
(a) The insured incident takes place in the insured period and within the territorial limits 
and
(b) The legal action takes place within the territorial limits
The relevant part of this condition is the insured incident, which is defined as The incident 
or the first of a series of incidents which may lead to a claim under this insurance. Only one 
insured incident shall be deemed to have arisen from all causes of actions, incidents or 
events that are related by cause or time.
It's agreed that Amtrust started providing cover to Mr L in 2018. What I need to decide is 
whether the insured incident, in accordance with the definition above, for the claim hes 
made with Amtrust was before or after 2018. Amtrust says that Mr Ls claim for unfair dismissal has its roots in matters which began in 
2015. For the purposes of my decision, I dont need, or intend, to go into detail about what 
happened but there are two particulars of claim prepared by Mr Ls legal representatives for 
the proceedings. These detail conduct towards Mr L starting in 2015 through to his dismissal 
in 2020. 
Mr L was dismissed in 2020 following a sickness related capability hearing. Hed been 
unable to work for health reasons since 2019 and, according to his employer, it wasnt 
considered likely hed return to work. Mr L disputes that as he says he was willing and 
wanted to return to work, but that reasonable adjustments were required. He says he was 
victimised by his employer, discriminated against because of his race and disability, and 
wasnt provided proper whistleblowing protections.
The particulars of claim detail the reasons why its considered Mr L was unfairly dismissed. 
Two separate arguments appear to be advanced. The first is that the employers reason for 
dismissing Mr L was in fact his making of whistle blowing allegations against colleagues. The 
second is that the employer refused or failed to make reasonable adjustments in order to 
allow Mr L to safely return to work. The particulars of claim also detail why Mr L considers 
he's been subject to victimisation, racial and disability discrimination and a failure to make 
reasonable adjustments.
The first argument would, I think, undoubtedly mean that the claim would be unsuccessful. 
The conduct and allegations which led to Mr Ls whistle blowing, and first tribunal 
proceedings, had been ongoing since 2015. Hed sent whistle blowing disclosures in 2017, 
and before that had raised concerns about the conduct of colleagues. All those matters were 
related and started before Mr Ls cover with Amtrust began in 2018. The same logic means 
that the claims in respect of victimisation, whistleblowing and racial discrimination would be 
unsuccessful. The evidence available to me is that the conduct relating to those allegations 
has been ongoing since 2015.
In respect of Mr Ls ill health, and the reasonable adjustments and disability discrimination 
claim, its true to say that occupational health reports detailing adjustments which might be 
needed or processes that might need to be started in order for Mr L to return to work didnt 
start until 2019. Mr Ls long term absence (from which he didnt return before being 
dismissed) started in 2019. However, theres also evidence that Mr Ls illness was work 
related and hed had episodes of related ill health back in 2015. 
From the evidence available to me, particularly that put forward by Mr L's own legal 
representatives in support of his claim, it seems to me Amtrust can reasonably say theres a 
direct link between the employers alleged conduct from 2015 onwards and Mr Ls ill health. 
A fair conclusion from the particulars of claim is that the conduct of his employer and 
colleagues, starting in 2015 with regular incidents through to his dismissal in 2020, was all 
connected and was a significant factor in Mr Ls ill health. For that reason, I think it was 
reasonable for Amtrust to conclude that the series of incidents which gave rise to the claim 
started in 2015. As this was before Amtrust insured Mr L, and the policy specifically states 
that the incident has to occur during the period of cover, then I think Amtrust has acted 
reasonably when it declined cover for Mr Ls claim.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint. Amtrust Europe Limited has fairly declined 
cover for Mr Ls claim.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman