DRN-1488454
The complaint
Mr A complains that Acorn Insurance & Financial Services Ltd told him that, due to an open 
claim, he wouldnt get a refund of premium when he asked to cancel his commercial motor 
insurance. He wants a part refund of his premium.
What happened
Mr A took out a taxi policy through Acorn. He shortly afterwards had an accident and wanted 
to change the taxi policy to one for social, domestic and personal (SDP) use only. But Acorn 
said he couldnt do this. It said he could cancel the policy, but he wouldnt receive a refund 
because of the open claim. 
The claim was eventually settled as non-fault. And so Mr A thought he should receive a 
refund for the difference between the taxi and SDP policy from when he asked for the 
cancellation. But Acorn said he wasnt due a refund as the policy had run for the full year. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Acorns 
terms and conditions said that it would retain the premiums until the claim was settled or 
closed. The policy lapsed before the claim was closed, so he thought Acorn could retain the 
premiums. 
He also thought it couldnt have simply changed the taxi policy to private SDP as the 
underwriter wouldnt allow this change of usage. So Mr A would have had to then pay two 
sets of premiums for two policies for the same car. 
Mr A replied that he wanted his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr A felt frustrated that he had to pay his premium for a taxi policy 
when he wasnt using his car as such. I can see from Acorns records that he called it twice 
during the policy year asking for a cancellation. And hes told us that hes been calling it 
regularly since then as he expected a refund. But he was told that the he wouldnt receive 
any refund of premium.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the brokers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Mr As policy terms and conditions say that when a claim is made:
"We will retain the whole Premium whilst the claim is in the process of being settled. The 
claim will be settled for the purpose of this section when a final settlement is made by Us or 
when We receive notification that a claim by You or a third party will not be pursued further. 
If settled as a fault claim and We have incurred costs as a result then no refund of premium 
will be given."
When Mr A asked to cancel his policy, the claim was still open. So I think Acorn was entitled 
by the policys terms and conditions to then retain his premium. 
Acorn could have cancelled the policy, but it would still have retained the premium while the 
claim remained open. And Mr A would then have had to take out cover elsewhere and pay 
for two policies for one car. I dont think this would be fair or reasonable. And I can see from 
the records that Mr A said he couldnt afford to do this without the refund. 
Acorn has provided evidence that the underwriter doesnt allow change of usage from taxi to 
SDP cover, so a change to an SDP policy wouldnt have been possible. So I cant say that 
Acorn gave Mr A incorrect advice or that this disadvantaged him. 
The claim was eventually settled as non-fault. But this was long after the policy year and, in 
the meantime, Mr A hadnt renewed through Acorn. So Mr A had the benefit of cover for a 
year, albeit with more cover than he needed. 
So I agree with the investigator that Acorn acted fairly and reasonably, and in keeping with 
the policys terms and conditions, when it gave advice to Mr A about cancelling his policy. So 
I cant say that Acorn did anything wrong or needs to give Mr A any refund of his premium.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman