DRN-2884310
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained that Progressive Money Limited lent to them irresponsibly.
Theyve also complained that Progressive Money didnt treat them fairly when it continued to
charge interest on the loan after they entered a debt management plan.
  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision about this matter in May 2021 which I summarise below.
Mr and Mrs B were given a loan of £10,000 by Progressive Money in August 2018.
The loan was due to be repaid in around 39 monthly instalments of about £460. The total
amount payable, including interest was just over £17,962. Mr and Mrs B had difficulties
repaying the loan and they entered a debt management plan. I understand the loan is still
outstanding.
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks that 
Progressive Money needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers 
income and expenditure. The loan was arranged through a credit intermediary but as the 
lender, Progressive Money needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to 
Mr and Mrs B irresponsibly.
Progressive Money held telephone calls with Mr and Mrs B and asked for information about
their income. It also requested payslips to verify their respective salaries. Progressive Money
acquired a credit report for Mrs B and reviewed bank statements from both Mr and Mrs B.
I thought in the circumstances it would have been proportionate for Progressive Money to 
have done more to check Mr and Mrs Bs regular expenditure, but in any event, on balance, I 
didnt think the lender made a fair lending decision on this occasion.
Mrs B initially applied for a single loan of £5000 for a monthly repayment of around £200 but
it seems that she didnt meet the lending criteria, and so Mr B was added to the loan. The
customer account notes an entry which says need to requoteas better credit
score now joint and need to get consent from both custs to discuss credit and tight on
affordability, CB @6.30pm to add Mr onto application.
In the event it became a joint application for £10,000 with just over £5,000 being used to
consolidate some existing debt and the balance being paid in cash to Mr and Mrs B.
Mr and Mrs Bs joint income included their salaries and respective pensions. On the face of
it, they had sufficient joint income to be able to afford the loan from Progressive Money.
But the lender was aware from the credit check it had acquired that Mrs B had 13 active
accounts with a total balance in excess of £44,000 including loans of around £27,000,
revolving credit of over £16,000 and a 97% balance to limit ratio. It seemed to me that the 
customer account notes also suggested that the extent of her credit commitments was of 
some concern to the lender and that Mr B had to be joined to the loan in order for the 
application to succeed. And Progressive Money was aware that Mr and Mrs B had a 
substantial bridging loan which they had recently extended on their mortgage.
I thought Progressive Money focussed its calculation of whether the loan was affordable for 
Mr and Mrs B on a pounds and pence basis. But as I explained, the lender was
required to establish whether the borrowers could sustainably meet their loan repayments 
not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence
calculation. The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness. The customer
should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments;
as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender
should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to
make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments
without borrowing further.
Mrs B had fairly recently taken payday loans, spent up to her limit on several credit cards,
had made a number of minimum payments to her creditors in the previous 12 months, 
extended a bridging loan and yet they still needed to borrow further. I thought it would have 
been reasonable for Progressive Money to conclude that despite their joint income, these
consumers were already struggling to manage their finances which appeared to be steadily
worsening.
Just over £5,000 of the loan was used to consolidate some of Mr and Mrs B existing debt 
from four creditors. The monthly repayment to Progressive Money was marginally less than 
the monthly amount being paid to service these four creditors. But I thought Progressive 
Money ought to have been aware from the information it had gathered that Mrs B in 
particular was already finding it difficult to manage her existing debt levels. Given
the level of outstanding debt, and the number of creditors, I thought Progressive Money 
ought reasonably to have been aware that this partial debt consolidation was unlikely to help 
Mr and Mrs B make sufficient inroads into their existing debt and that lending £10,000 would
most likely increase their indebtedness overall to unsustainable levels.
Taking matters as a whole, I thought on balance that Progressive Money ought reasonably 
to have realised that Mr and Mrs B were finding it very difficult to get out from under their 
debt problems, and that it was unlikely that they would be able to sustainably repay their 
loan over the extended loan term. In these particular circumstances, I thought Progressive 
Money should reasonably have concluded that it was not appropriate to lend to them.
Mr and Mrs B also complained that they asked Progressive Money to stop charging
them interest when they entered a debt management plan. But they say that interest has
continued to be charged and this means their outstanding debt is increasing, despite regular
payments. Mr and Mrs B thinks this is unfair. In my experience some lenders do decide to
freeze interest when consumers run into financial difficulties. But Progressive Money is not
under an obligation to freeze interest on the loan. It does however have an obligation to treat
Mr and Mrs B positively and sympathetically and I said I would expect Progressive Money to 
try and agree a repayment plan that is affordable for Mr and Mrs B and enables them to 
repay the loan over a reasonable period of time.
Taking everything into account, I didnt think Progressive Money should have agreed to 
provide the loan to Mr and Mrs B. So I said I was intending to uphold their complaint.
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence. Mr and Mrs B said they 
had nothing further to add. I havent seen any response from Progressive Money and the 
deadline for any further comments has now passed.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given I have not received any new information or further comments that change my mind 
about this matter, I confirm the conclusions that I reached in my provisional decision and I 
uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
  
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr and Mrs B to repay the principal amount that they 
borrowed, because they have had the benefit of that lending. But they have paid interest and 
charges on lending that shouldnt have been provided to them.
Progressive Money should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the lending and treat all the payments Mr 
and Mrs B made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr and Mrs Bs loan account results in them having effectively made 
payments above the original capital borrowed, then Progressive Money should 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled*.
If reworking the account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then Progressive 
Money should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr and Mrs B, bearing 
in mind its obligation to treat them positively and sympathetically in these 
discussions.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr and Mrs Bs credit file in relation to 
the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Progressive Money to deduct tax from this interest 
Progressive Money should give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted, if they ask for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Progressive Money Limited 
to put things right as set out above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 July 2021.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman