DRN-1301883
 
The complaint
Miss D complains that Nationwide Building Society told her a transaction had been declined 
when it had not.
What happened
Miss D bought 4 tickets for a concert with a company I will call "V" on 20 October 2018. She 
says she the received a telephone call from Nationwide about the purchase and passed the 
security questions but was told the transaction had been declined. Miss D says she checked 
her account and could see that the money hadn't been taken from her account and so 
bought tickets from a different company for the same concert. But later found out the first 
transaction had gone through and she was left with 4 concert tickets she couldn't re-sell. 
Miss D says this has cost her about £1,200 and meant her account was overdrawn.
Nationwide says it's security systems flagged the transaction as suspicious and so made 
automated contact with Miss D. It says it was up to Miss D to check if the transaction had 
been successful and that the payment had been forced through by V. It also says Miss D 
raised a further complaint about a missing £700 which she says was deposited at a branch 
but it needs further information to investigate that.
Nationwide then gave us further information about this complaint and now says V requested 
the money twice a second apart. It says the first transaction did go through but it blocked a 
second transaction for the same amount of money. Nationwide says it believes V did that in 
an attempt to avoid its security systems.
Miss D had already brought her complaint to us and our investigator didn't uphold it. The 
investigator thought V had made two attempts for payment and V had sent Miss D an e-mail 
before Nationwide spoke to her telling her the  tickets had been bought which she ought to 
have checked.
Miss D doesn't accept that view and says the transaction was not shown on her online 
banking and doesn't accept that V was to blame for what took place. She says 
Nationwide told her the transaction had been declined and would like evidence V asked for 
the money twice. Miss D accepts V e-mailed her but says she didn't pick up that e-mail until 
later. She would like Nationwide to pay the money she has lost of just over £1,250.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator. I realise that Miss D will be disappointed by my decision and 
I appreciate how strongly she feels about what's taken place.
I have looked at Nationwide's records as well as the e-mail V sent Miss D. I'm satisfied that 
V made two attempts for payment on 20 October 2018 but with slightly different details. I can see that the attempts were a second apart and for the same amount of money. The first 
transaction was successful but I can see that Nationwide's security systems blocked the 
second attempt. I don't think that was a mistake and think that let to the automated call 
between the parties in which Miss D was told the transaction had been declined.
I think that had Nationwide blocked the only transaction and told Miss D that it had been 
declined but later processed it then I would have agreed with Miss D that Nationwide had 
acted unfairly. I also don't think Nationwide's final response letter was helpful as it suggested 
V had " forced through" the payment. And its clear that Nationwide hadn't looked carefully 
into the circumstances of this complaint as it ought to have noticed what had taken place at 
the time it issued its final response letter.
But I think on balance the problem here was caused by V and its attempt to make two 
payment attempts using the slightly different details. I don't know why it did that or if it was 
an attempt to avoid Nationwide's security systems. I appreciate Miss D says that she doesn't 
think V was responsible for what took place. But I'm satisfied that its second attempt for 
payment meant Nationwide placed the security block on the second transaction and 
correctly told Miss D that it had been declined.
I appreciate that Miss D then checked her account online before deciding to buy the tickets 
elsewhere. But I don't think it likely a payment would have been shown at that stage and I 
think that Miss D ought to have checked her e-mail account as I can see that V confirmed 
the successful purchase of the tickets some time before she bought the second set. I 
appreciate that Miss D says she didn't pick up that e-mail. But that is not something I can 
fairly hold Nationwide responsible for as this was an online purchase and the only 
information about the success of the purchase at that time was likely to come via e-mail. I 
think  it may have taken a few days for the transaction to appear on Miss D's account
I can see that Miss D has complained to Nationwide about a missing deposit. I don't think 
that was part of Miss D's original complaint to us. But in any event it's not something I can 
look into as I think  Nationwide has made clear that it hasn't received enough information 
from Miss D to investigate.
Overall I don't think Nationwide was responsible for what took place and I have made clear 
that I think V's attempts for the payment led to what took place. I accept that Nationwide 
didn't explain that to Miss D in its final response but I don't think that mistake justifies any 
compensation. For those reasons I can't fairly order Nationwide to pay Miss D the 
compensation she would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman