DRN-3662466
The complaint
Mr C complains that the fees Countrywide Assured Plc deducted from his home purchase 
plan in 2020-21 were quite extraordinary and that he would never have agreed to them.
What happened
In early 2021, Mr C received an annual statement for his home purchase plan. Mr C 
complained to Countrywide that he hadnt agreed to the specific level of deductions it had 
taken from his plan. Countrywide provided a final response to Mr C explaining the various 
charges and referred him to the illustration provided at the time of the sale, along with the 
key features. Countrywide didnt uphold the complaint and said its actuaries had checked the 
cost and found them to be correct and said it would provide Mr C details of the premiums 
and charges deducted over the policy term to date. 
Mr C brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought Countrywide had disclosed the 
specific charges it had made to the plan, as it was now required to do, and that it had 
checked the charges with its actuarial team, and they were correct. Mr C asked that an 
Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Countrywide consented to the Financial Ombudsman Service considering the charges it 
applied for the 2020/2021 year. I want to make it clear that Ive considered the comments Mr 
C provided in response to the thoughts of the Investigator. I may not address each comment 
individually, but I will address the comments I consider relate to Mr Cs complaint. I 
understand Mr C will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons as the 
Investigator, Ive decided that Countrywide hasnt done anything significantly wrong, and I 
will now explain why.
Countrywide provided Mr C with an illustration at the time of the sale explaining what the 
deductions to the plan would be. These included the cost of cover for the death and critical 
illness benefits, premium protection benefit, disability benefit and charges. Mr C says that 
specific figures werent provided, but the illustration did explain what the effect of the 
deductions could be over 25 years.
Mr C says that if hed known the charges and deductions would be so high, he wouldnt have 
taken out the plan. Countrywide says its annual statements now include a breakdown of 
each specific charge and deduction applied for the year  rather than a total sum of charges 
and deductions for the year. This is something I would expect to see now although 
Countrywide hasnt always been required to provide this. Indeed, when Mr C took out the 
plan in 1998, Countrywide was expected to provide an illustration of the potential charges 
and deductions, and the effect these could have on Mr Cs plan. This included the cost of 
cover for the death and critical illness benefits, premium protection benefit, disability benefit 
and charges.
Mr C believes that the charges and deductions made by Countrywide in 2020/2021 were 
quite extraordinary. This is the crux of his complaint, but Im satisfied that Countrywide is 
entitled to apply these charges and deductions. Mr C reasonably knew deductions would be 
made for the cost the death and critical illness benefits, premium protection benefit, disability 
benefit and charges  such as a monthly policy charge and an annual management charge 
based on the investment element of the plan. But, as Mr C got older, the cost of providing life 
and critical illness cover increased and Countrywide is entitled to base its cost of cover on its 
mortality rates at the time. 
Mr C says that he wouldnt have taken out the plan if hed known the charges and 
deductions would be so high, and that he can now obtain cheaper life cover within the 
marketplace. That may be the case, but I think its unfair and unreasonable to expect 
Countrywide to have known exactly what the mortality rates would be over a 25-year period, 
but it did explain what the projected cost the effect of these deductions could be. Its not the 
role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to check and re-calculate the figures provided by 
Countrywides actuaries. Mr Cs plan also has an element of investment and the value of the 
fund hes invested in will vary. This too will affect the cost of life cover as, if the value of the 
fund falls, Countrywide has to ensure the minimum death sum assured will be paid if Mr C 
passed  this means that the cost of cover will vary from time to time, based on the fund 
performance. 
My final decision
Taking all of the circumstances of this complaint into account, Ive decided that Countrywide 
Assured Plc hasnt done anything significantly wrong, and I havent upheld Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman