DRN-1757366
 
The complaint
Mr K has complained about a loan he took from Valour Finance Limited trading as 
Savvy.co.uk. Mr K says Savvy lent to him irresponsibly.   
What happened
Mr K was given a loan of £325.00 by Savvy in April 2019. The loan was repayable in 12 
monthly instalments of about £54.00 per month.   I understand Mr K has not been able to 
repay the loan and has entered into a debt management plan. 
One of our adjudicators investigated Mr Ks complaint. He didn't think Savvy had been wrong 
to provide Mr K with the loan.  Mr K didn't agree with the adjudicators assessment, and so 
the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision about the matter.
Mr K also raised a Subject Access Request (SAR) with Savvy. For the avoidance of doubt, 
my decision only deals with Mr Ks complaint that Savvy lent to him irresponsibly. I am not 
making any findings in relation to Mr Ks SAR but I have taken account of all the information 
he has sent us as a result of the SAR when reaching my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Savvy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. This 
means that it had to carry out proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr K could repay the 
loan sustainably. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as 
the loan amount, the repayment amounts and Mr Ks income and expenditure. But there was 
no set list of checks Savvy had to do.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But I've also considered if there were any other factors that 
might indicate that Savvy should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish whether 
continued lending was sustainable for Mr K.
Such factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loan, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loan (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,  
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what it means for Mr Ks complaint.
Savvy has told us it carried out some checks before lending to Mr K. It asked him for details 
of his income and normal monthly expenditure and carried out a credit check. I have listened 
to the recorded telephone calls Mr K had with Savvy as part of his loan application process. 
Mr K gave Savvy information about his income and expenditure and he also answered some 
queries that Savvy had about some of the loans that were showing on his credit report. 
From what Ive seen, I think the checks Savvy did before agreeing to lend to Mr K were 
reasonable and proportionate.  The amounts that Mr K needed to repay each month were 
relatively modest compared with the monthly income he had declared to Savvy. Ive seen the 
information gathered by the lender at the time and I dont think there was anything which 
should have caused Savvy any additional concerns about Mr Ks financial position when he 
applied for the loan. Or that should have led it to reasonably conclude that his loan 
application should be declined.
Mr K has told us he thinks Savvy should have carried out better checks, such as asking to 
see his bank statements. And that if it had done so, he says that the lender would have 
discovered that he had other debts and that the loan was unaffordable for him. 
But given what Mr K had told Savvy about his circumstances, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate for the lender, at this early stage of the lending relationship, to ask Mr K for the 
amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before 
agreeing the loan. I think it was reasonable for Savvy to make its lending decision based on 
the information Mr K had provided and what it found in its checks. I dont think greater 
checks were appropriate at the time. And I dont think Mr Ks lending had reached the point 
where I think Savvy ought to have been independently verifying the information he was 
providing about his finances by, for example, asking to see copies of his bank statements. 
I appreciate that Mr K says his financial situation was much worse, and that he was in 
serious debt with a lot of other creditors. But this doesnt appear to be something he shared 
with Savvy at that time, or something that what I consider to be proportionate checks would 
have uncovered. I am sorry that Mr K is struggling with financial problems, but I cant fairly 
conclude that Savvy did something wrong when it provided the loan to him.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against Valour 
Finance Limited trading as Savvy.co.uk
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman