DRN-1374184
The complaint
Mrs W complains that PRA Group (UK) Limited purchased a debt from her credit card 
provider, who Ill call A when she hadnt given her permission for the debt to be sold. She 
said that she neither saw nor signed the terms and conditions A relied on to sell the debt, 
making subsequent enforcement of the debt unfair.
What happened
Mrs W said that in 2002 she took out a credit card with A with a £7,000 credit limit. She said 
that after receiving the terms and conditions in January 2003, she ticked no against a box 
and didnt sign data protection consent for transference of data, but signed the main 
document. At a later date Mrs W says she took out further credit and that she was told that a 
further agreement would need to be signed, as the existing agreement only covered the 
original £7,000. Mrs W said that she didnt receive or signed a new credit agreement, and 
said that A had made PRA Group aware of this. 
In May 2018 Mrs W entered into a debt management plan (DMP) via a third-party 
organisation, and with As agreement made monthly payments of £12.93. Then in July 2018 
PRA Group wrote to Mrs W to say they had purchased the debt - and that future payments 
should be made to them. Mrs W was sent two notices of assignment of the debt, detailing an 
outstanding balance of £18653.04. Mrs W continued to make the DMP payments to PRA 
Group. In August 2018 she asked PRA Group to send her a record of her agreeing to the 
debt being sold by A.
Mrs W subsequently complained about the delay in answering her enquiry, and said that 
after being told that she wouldnt receive calls or letters while PRA Group investigated her 
concerns  that she had. She wrote again making a formal complaint as she believed that 
PRA Group had failed to carry out due diligence when purchasing the debt. And that was 
unhappy with the service she received from PRA Group as they had failed to supply her with 
the documents she requested within a reasonable time. Mrs W also said that she was 
unhappy that the notice of assignment was incorrectly worded and, although PRA Group 
sent a correctly worded copy since, she didnt accept this change. 
PRA Group responded to Mrs W advising that they were the legal owner of the debt and that 
they had purchased it in good faith. They that while they didnt have the signed agreement 
that Mrs W had requested, they had relied on the original document with a defined credit 
limit of £7000 as the legal foundation to enforce the debt. PRA Group said they were sorry 
for the delays in providing the documents, and for a letter that had been sent out while the 
account had been placed on hold. 
Mrs W didnt agree with the response from PRA Group saying that she believed the debt 
shouldnt have been sold and that it wasnt enforceable - and came to us. Our investigator 
gave his view that the complaint shouldnt be upheld, concluding the evidence supported the 
reasons PRA Group had given in its final response letter. Mrs W didnt agree with the 
investigators view and asked that her complaint be given to an ombudsman to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for similar reasons.
PRA Groups purchase of the debt
Having seen the original credit agreement, and while I can see Mrs W wrote NO against a 
box for payment protection and didnt sign data protection consent for transference of data  
she signed the main document. So, accept that Mrs W is bound by the terms and conditions 
of the original Credit Agreement. 
Terms and conditions: 18C We may transfer our rights or duties under this agreement or 
for any other person to carry out our rights or duties under this agreement. If we do this, it 
will not reduce your rights or increase your duties unless you agree otherwise. You may not 
transfer any of your rights or duties under this agreement.
I can see that Mrs W didnt agree that 18C of the terms and conditions allowed MBNA to sell 
the debt - and that her view was that they were only able to transfer it for collection. I dont 
agree, and believe it was reasonable for PRA Group to have relied on this to show that A 
were entitled to sell the debt. 
There are two types of assignment that a creditor can make - legal and equitable. Both fall 
under the Law of Property Act 1925, and require the creditor to notify the consumer of the 
change in writing. This doesnt require the debtors agreement. I understand that PRA Group 
entered a legal assignment, giving them the power to enforce the debt. They made Mrs W 
aware of this by sending the notice of assignment.
While I accept that the first letter contained an error by not referring to A in paragraph three, 
I'm satisfied that the error didnt take away from the information provided. PRA Group had 
purchased the debt from A and any future payment would need to be made to PRA Group. 
While Mrs W may not accept the notice of assignment, her acceptance is not required as its 
only to tell the consumer that the debt has been sold, who to, and how to pay. 
Need for second credit agreement
Mrs W doesnt dispute that she opened the original account and took on the original and 
further credit. She has said that she doesnt agree that additional credit should be paid as 
she didnt see or sign a further credit agreement.
The further debt arose from the same account both opened and operated by Mrs W. This 
wouldnt usually require a new credit agreement, so Im satisfied it was reasonable for PRA 
Group to believe that the entire debt was covered by the original credit agreement, and that 
A was entitled to sell it. Mrs W has said that she didnt see or sign the new credit agreement 
that she believes was relied upon when selling the debt. But if there was no new credit 
agreement, then the question becomes one of whether the steps taken are in line with the 
original agreement.I dont know whether Mrs W has sought to take this up with A. But for the avoidance of any 
doubt, this isn't something I can fairly hold PRA Group responsible for. Based on what I have 
seen, I dont believe that PRA Group did anything wrong by taking reasonable steps to 
recover the debt that they purchased in good faith. Mrs W can, of course, obtain legal advice 
on how a court might view the enforceability of the debt, should she wish to do so.   
Customer service from the PRA Group                                                                  
While I understand the frustration caused to Mrs W while waiting for the documents shed 
asked for. As the delays were beyond the control of PRA Group - it wouldnt be fair to expect 
them to compensate for this. 
I have also considered that PRA Group sent Mrs W emails each month giving regular 
updates while they waited for A to provide the requested documents and feel that PRA 
Group acted reasonably by keeping Mrs W updated. When Mrs W escalated her concerns in 
September 2018, PRA Group responded in days explaining the reason for the delays. Then 
when she complained in March 2019, their final response was sent in April 2019 within the 
time scales set out for regulated businesses.
I accept from a letter sent by the PRA Group that the account was placed on hold. While on 
8 August 2018 Mrs W was told she wouldn't receive any letters or calls, a letter had been 
posted 3 August. That was before this was agreed, so while I can understand why Mrs W 
would feel the agreement wasnt kept to, I dont think the 3 August letter is evidence of this. 
Im satisfied PRA Group did stop sending Mrs W letters - as promised. I therefore believe 
their decision to apologise, rather than compensate, was fair.
Broadly speaking, in line with long standing industry good practice, including section 7.3 of 
the Consumer Credit Sourcebook, I would expect PRA Group to have treated Mrs W with 
forbearance and due consideration in periods where they should reasonably be aware that 
she was experiencing financial difficulties. I believe that PRA Group have done so by not 
adding interest to the debt, accepting payment of the amount previously agreed with A 
through the DMP, and placing the account on hold while they investigated Mrs Ws concerns
My final decision
I understand this will be disappointing, but for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs 
Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Sarah Watts
Ombudsman