DRN-3894848
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S feel Amtrust Europe Limited has unfairly declined a claim made on their New 
Home Guarantee Insurance.
What happened
In January 2022, Mr and Mrs S notified Amtrust of damage to their property and asked that it 
cover the cost of the repair under their New Home Guarantee Policy. There was cracking to 
the external render of the property walls and on reviewing their policy wording, they believed 
the policy provided cover for this.
Amtrust said it would only cover the damage if it could be concluded that it formed part of the 
Waterproof Envelope for the home. If it was unable to conclude this, the damage would not 
be considered major damage due to a defect of design, workmanship or materials of the 
Structure.
Amtrust used its technical surveyor to assess the damage remotely. They said the render on 
the property was not necessary for the property to be watertight. Because it didnt form part 
of the watertight envelope, it didnt agree the render forms part of the structure and didnt 
think it needed to accept the claim for damage. 
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the outcome and provided details from the local contractor who 
rectified the damage to the render. The contractor provided their opinion, based on the 
physical assessment of the property. They felt the render was poor with it being loose and 
easily removed, which highlighted an issue in itself. They also provided pictures from the 
repair and said there was visible cracks in the mortar for the block brickwork that sat behind 
the render. They felt this would have compromised the watertight envelope for the property. 
In effect they believed the render was masking issues with the blockwork beneath and was 
helping to maintain the watertight seal. 
Our investigator looked at their complaint and felt Amtrust needed to do more. She said that 
on review of the information provided, she agreed there was visible gaps in the brickwork 
and the render was likely providing a layer of protection. She felt it was  reasonable to say 
this could be acting as the waterproof envelope. Because of this she felt it met the policy 
definition of Structure and it was fair to expect Amtrust to accept the claim.
She asked Amtrust to accept the claim and refund Mr and Mrs S the cost of the repair works 
completed together with 8% simple interest added.
Mr and Mrs S agreed with the assessment. 
Amtrust said it didnt agree. It provided a copy of the report previously submitted which set 
out the technical surveyors assessment of the property.  It said it had reviewed the pictures 
provided and couldnt identify the gaps referred to and in the absence of any kind of expert 
report, it didnt agree it was fair to accept the claim.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in December 2022. I explained that I wasnt 
planning on upholding the complaint as I wasnt persuaded from the information provided, 
that the visible cracks to the block brickwork beneath the render were impacting its 
watertight seal. Because of this, I didnt think they formed part of Structure or Housing Unit to 
meet the definition of what is covered under the policy. Ive copied what I said below:
The crux of this complaint is whether the policy terms have been applied fairly. The policy 
provides cover for Major Damage and it defines this as:
Destruction of or physical damage to any portion of the Housing Unit for which a 
Certificate of Insurance has been issued by the Underwriter.
To understand whether the damage caused to Mr and Mrs Ss property is covered, the 
definition of the housing unit and structure need to be understood. This is set out under 
section 25 of the policy terms and conditions and says the following:
The following elements shall comprise of the Structure of the Housing Unit
any existing finishing surface (including rendering) necessary for the water-tightness of the 
external envelope;
Amtrust has provided a report completed by its Technical Surveyor. Mr and Mrs S have said 
no inspection of the damage was completed and this report was completed as a desk 
assessment, based on the photos and information provided. The surveyor didnt think the 
render had an impact on the water tightness of the property. This was based on the 
construction, location, and the building standards for the area. 
In contrast to this, Mr and Mrs S have provided an assessment of the quality of the render by 
a local contractor and photos taken after the loose render was removed ahead of being re-
done as part of the remedial work they instructed. The contractor explained in simple terms 
that they didnt think the render was of great quality with it being loose in places and easy to 
remove. But the he didnt give any comments on whether it was providing a watertight 
protection for the property. 
I dont think it is in dispute that the render was poor and easily removed. What needs to be 
determined is whether I think it is fair to rely on the photos taken when the work was 
completed and what Mr and Mrs S say this demonstrated, in reference to the quality of the 
brickwork beneath the render. Is this sufficient to show that it was crucial to the watertight 
envelope of the property.
Amtrust has said it has reviewed the photo provided and it doesnt agree this demonstrates 
there was gaps or cracks in the wall. I think from review, it is clear there is a number of 
gaps/cracks in the blockwork mortar. And there is a significant amount of fresh cement 
added to this in the photo showing where this required repointing ahead of the wall render 
being reapplied. 
However, I dont think it is fair to say on the information provided that the blockwork wall that 
sits beneath the render was defective to the point that it was not creating an effective 
watertight envelope for the property. Mr and Mrs S made no claim or reference to water 
ingress inside the property, this was despite a number of visible cracks in the render as well 
as a large section of this having already come away when the claim was raised. And I think it 
has to be accepted, that even if the render was loose and coming away easily, it is likely its 
removal may have a caused some damage to the wall beneath.
So I think the evidence, although indicating clear signs of gaps and cracks in the blockwork 
mortar, doesnt confirm it wasnt still creating a watertight seal. And if the blockwork beneath the render was still creating a watertight seal (as the technical surveyor report details it 
should by design), it follows that Amtrust has not made an unfair claim decision when 
declining Mr and Mrs S claim.
I understand the repair works have already been completed and it may be that there is little 
else Mr and Mrs S can provide in support of the damage to the blockwork beneath being 
such, that it relied on the render to be in place to create the watertight seal on the property. 
But based on the information Ive been provided so far; Im not persuaded this was the case. 
Amtrust responded to say it accepted the provisional decision and had nothing further to 
add. 
Mr and Mrs S responded and explained they were disappointed that the outcome had 
changed from that reached by our investigator but had no new information to provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the information on this complaint again. Having done so and with no new 
information provided by either side, I see no reason to depart from the provisional decision 
set out above.
I dont think it has been demonstrated that the render applied to Mr and Mrs Ss property 
was relied on to create the watertight seal to it. In the absence of this, the policy terms do not 
provide cover for the render and it follows that Amtrust has made a fair claim decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman