DRN-2961659
The complaint
 Mr S is unhappy with the lack of help and support he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc
when he got in contact to explain that he was experiencing financial difficulties as a result of
the pandemic.
What happened
Mr S contacted HSBC in late March 2020  after the lockdown had been introduced, to
explain that his income was already being impacted by the lockdown. He asked HSBC if he
could put his borrowing onto a payment holiday.
HSBC explained it was currently reviewing its policy about the payment holidays with the
regulator - the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), as a result of the pandemic. So, it said it
couldnt offer a payment holiday until the new process had been agreed. But it offered Mr S
60 days breathing space. This meant that Mr S wasnt required to make any payments
within the 60 days but he had to call HSBC towards the end of the 60 days so the situation
could be reviewed. Mr S accepted the offer.
Mr S subsequently received correspondence confirming that HSBC was now offering
customers  whose income was impacted by the pandemic, a three-month payment holiday
which wouldnt impact their credit file. He says he called in receipt of this to ask how this
affected his breathing space arrangement. He says he was told that because hed previously
been in contact with HSBC about his circumstances since the pandemic had started, his
arrangement would be moved to a payment holiday.
But he later found out this hadnt happened. He was told his account was in collections and
adverse information had been recorded on his credit file. He was told to apply for a payment
holiday on-line, but his application was declined as his account was two payments in arears.
So, Mr S complained to HSBC.
HSBC said that when Mr S first contacted it, the FCA Covid relief guidance hadnt been
confirmed, so it was unable to offer a payment holiday at that time. Hence, it offered Mr S
the breathing space for 60 days. But it says Mr S was made aware that while payments
werent required during this period, the missed payments would be recorded on his credit
file.
HSBC also said it had no record of a call Mr S mentioned being made where he was told his
breathing space arrangement would be transferred to a payment holiday. So, it didnt agree
it had given Mr S incorrect information. But it agrees that Mr S did call in mid-May 2020
when he was told to apply for a payment holiday on-line. And the application was declined
as he was in arrears.
Ultimately, HSBC agreed a payment holiday (as the Covid relief guidance had been
amended - extending payment holidays to up to six months), but HSBC didnt include the
April and May payments.
Mr S remains unhappy that his credit file has been impacted by the missed payments in April
and May 2020. Hes also said that to avoid any further problems he asked HSBC to
reactivate his direct debit for the June payment. And that he was told to also set up a
standing order in case the direct debit wasnt reactivated in time. As a result, both payments
were taken. While one payment was refunded, Mr S said this didnt help his financial
situation. So, he referred his complaint to this service.
One of investigators considered Mr Ss complaint but she didnt uphold it. She agreed that
the FCA Covid guidance hadnt been announced when Mr S first contacted HSBC. So, she
didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong when it offered Mr S 60-days breathing space.
And she was satisfied that Mr S was told the impact this would have on his credit file. But
she wasnt persuaded that Mr S had been told that his breathing space would be moved to a
payment holiday, and she didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong when it declined the
application as by this time Mr S had already missed two payments.
Mr S didnt accept this. He pointed out that HSBC did subsequently agree to a payment
holiday in line with the FCA Covid guidance, so he maintains HSBC original payment holiday
decision was wrong. He asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
What I provisionally decided  and why
By way of a provisional decision dated 29 July 2021, I set out the reasons why I intended to 
uphold Mr S complaint. The following is an extract from my provision findings set out in the 
provisional decision: 
On 9 April 2020 the regulator  The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), finalised guidance
for temporary relief for customers impacted by the pandemic. This included firms being
expected to offer a temporary payment freeze on loans and credit cards for up to three
months. This was later extended for a further three months (6 months total) after which firms
were expected to consider individual arrangements with customers based on their individual
circumstances in line with normal guidance involving financial difficulties. While the guidance
wasnt formalised until 9 April 2020, I think the FCA would have been in contact with firms
like HSBC and it would have been aware before 9 April of the general expectations of the
guidance.
But I accept that HSBC wouldnt have been able to offer Mr S something that didnt exist
when he contacted it in March 2020. So, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong by offering
Mr S 60-day breathing space at this point. Ive listened to the call recording of the
conversation between Mr S and HSBC in March and Im satisfied Mr S was told of the
impact missed payments would have on his credit file.
There is a dispute about whether Mr S called HSBC in April 2020. HSBC has provided its
call recording log and the customer notes it records when there is contact with a consumer.
And Im satisfied there is no record that a call was made. But this doesnt mean Mr S didnt
call  it simply means that the call wasnt recorded, and a customer note wasnt added to the 
system. But without such a record its difficult for me to say whether Mr S was given wrong 
information about his breathing space arrangement being transferred to a payment holiday.
But I dont think I need to make a specific finding on this as its not in dispute that Mr S did
contact HSBC in early May 2020. I acknowledge that by this time Mr S had already missed
two payments. But Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr S had missed any payments beforeMarch 2020. And given the missed payment occurred after the pandemic had started and
after the government had placed the UK in lockdown, I think its most likely that Mr S
financial circumstances were impacted by the pandemic.
The FCA guidance says: Where a customer is already experiencing or reasonably expects 
to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of circumstances relating to 
coronavirus, and wishes to receive a payment deferral, a firm should grant the customer a 
payment deferral for 3 months unless the firm determines (acting reasonably) that it is 
obviously not in the customers interests to do so.
In light of this, and as Mr S contacted HSBC within a month of the FCA guidance coming into
force, I think it would have been reasonable for HSBC to have considered Mr S missed
payments within the FCA scheme. Had HSBC done so, HSBC wouldnt have recorded any
adverse data recorded on his credit file as this was part of the guidance. And HSBC wouldnt
have placed his account in collections.
So, I think that HSBC should remove any adverse data recorded on Mr S credit file from
when the first payment was missed following his call on 27 March 2020 to when the
subsequent payment holiday that was agreed ended. Any collection activity relating to the
missed payment so also be stopped.
In summary, HSBC should put Mr S account in the position it would have been had a Covid
payment holiday been in place since 27 March 2020.
Ive gone on to think about the distress and inconvenience of this matter had on Mr S. In
doing so, Ive taken into account that the initial 60-day breathing space was a reasonable
offer in March 2020 and that Ive been unable to determine that Mr S was given incorrect
information in April 2020. But as set out above, I think by May 2020, HSBC should have
offered Mr S a payment holiday which included the previous two missed payments. As this
didnt happen and Mr S had to continue to pursue the matter. And it seems there was some
issues around two payments being taken in early June 2020, I think HSBC should pay Mr S
£150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced.
Both Mr S and HSBC responded to accept my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional findings and havent provided any further 
information for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusion reached in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision dated 29 July 2021 (set out 
above), I uphold this complaint and instruct HSBC Bank UK Plc to:
remove any adverse data recorded on Mr S credit file from 27 March 2020 until the
payment holiday subsequently agreed ended;
stop any collection activity in relation to the two missed payments in April and May
2020;
Continued.
Continued.
ensure Mr S account in the position it would have been in if these payments hadbeen included in a payment holiday;
pay Mr S £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman