DRN-3229196
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain about the building survey carried out on their home by Barclays Bank 
UK Plc. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs F purchased their property in 2007 with a mortgage from Barclays. Barclays 
arranged a buildings valuation survey to be carried out. 
A number of years later Mr and Mrs F had cause to make a claim on their home insurance 
policy for damage to their garage caused by subsidence. The insurer declined the claim on 
the grounds of poor workmanship as it was of the view that the foundations werent of 
sufficient depth. Mr and Mrs F complained to the insurer about its decision to decline the 
claim as they said they were unable to afford the repair. They also complained to Barclays 
about the fact the issue with the foundations wasnt picked up by the third-party surveyor itd 
instructed to carry out the valuation survey at the time of purchase. Mr and Mrs F said they 
wanted Barclays to cover the cost of repairing their garage and compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience theyd been caused. 
Barclays looked into Mr and Mrs Fs complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. It 
said the surveyor it appointed was instructed to value the property to ascertain if it was 
suitable for secure lending purposes and nothing else. Barclays said the surveyor wasnt 
there to check for any defects at the property or report on any issues. It said a separate 
survey wouldve been required by Mr and Mrs F if theyd wanted to know about such 
matters. Barclays didnt think itd made an error so didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
Unhappy with the outcome of Barclays investigation, Mr and Mrs F complained to this 
service. They said theyd paid for an extensive survey at the time of purchase and that the 
defects with their garage shouldve been spotted. 
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Fs complaint but didnt recommend that it was 
upheld. She said the purpose of the survey was so that Barclays could ensure that the 
property was suitable for secure lending. She said that if they had wanted to have the 
foundations of the property checked theyd have needed to have instructed a specialist 
building surveyor of their own. Mr and Mrs F disagreed with our investigators findings and 
asked for their complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that it mustve been very worrying for Mr and Mrs F to discover their garage was 
experiencing subsidence damage and that their insurer wouldnt meet their claim. And I 
know that they felt that when purchasing their property they paid for an extensive survey 
which, they feel, shouldve been capable of identifying the defects with their garage. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs F paid for a Level 2 Home File report which contained the 
following sections: 
General Property Information
Valuation & Insurance Reinstatement Cost
Level 2 Condition Statement
Energy Rating Certificate
Maintenance Advice
security Advice
Fire Safety Advice
Home File Conditions of Engagement
Glossary of Terms
A level 2 homebuyer property survey provides a visual inspection of areas that are 
reasonably accessible (to the surveyor). The survey looks for serious problems that are 
readily evident and which could affect the propertys value; it doesnt go into detail about the 
structural integrity of the property. A level 3 survey is what is known as a full structural 
survey which entails an in-depth inspection of the condition of the property to provide tailored 
advice on any issues that the building or grounds may have and provide guidance for the 
repairs and maintenance that will be required. 
Unfortunately for Mr and Mrs F, the survey they selected wasnt one that looked into the 
structural integrity of the house they were buying. Their reports principal purpose was so 
Barclays could be sure that the property was suitable for it to lend against; that can be seen 
by the sections Ive listed above. There is no section of the report that covers the structural 
condition of the property. The report follows a set format which is straightforward and easy to 
follow but isnt tailored to individual cases. 
As the purpose of the report wasnt to identify any structural defects I cant reasonably find 
that Barclays has made an error; that wouldnt be fair. Regrettably for Mr and Mrs F, it 
follows that this is a complaint that Im unable to uphold. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to accept or reject my decision 
before 17 February 2022. 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman