DRN-2576402
The complaint
Mrs and Mr M say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2000. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. Nationwide disagree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive considered what Nationwide has said, but Ive still decided to uphold Mrs and Mr Ms 
complaint. This is because I think its unlikely Nationwide gave Mrs and Mr M clear enough 
information about the policy, in particular the costs compared to levels of benefits, including 
the limitations on benefits. 
The maximum payment for any one claim was 12 months and, if Mrs and Mr M had realised 
that, I dont think theyd have thought the cost of the PPI to be worth it.  Mr M, in addition to 
his paid income, had recently started receiving a secure pension income (worth about four 
times the monthly cost of the mortgage).  I dont know what Mrs and Mr Ms overall essential 
outgoings were at the time, but its likely theyd have thought they could survive on a 
combination of the pension, earnings by whichever of Mrs and Mr M were continuing to 
work, and (to some degree) other sources of help. 
I dont think they would have bought the policy if they had fully understood what they were 
paying for. 
Putting things right
Nationwide should put Mrs and Mr M in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
this PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Nationwide 
should:
Pay Mrs and Mr M the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs and Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide Building Society to take off tax from this 
interest. Nationwide must give Mrs and Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs and Mr Ms complaint. 
I require Nationwide Building Society to pay Mrs and Mr M compensation in accordance with 
the calculation of redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 March 2021. 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman