DRN-2402371
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy about Amtrust Europe Limiteds decision to decline her claim for her lost 
mobile phone under her gadget insurance policy.
What happened
Ms R said that when she bought the policy, she thought she could claim for one item up to 
the overall policy limit of £2,500. Ms R bought a new phone and added it to her gadget policy 
for the maximum individual item amount allowed of £1,500. The new phone wasnt listed as 
an option to add to the policy, so Ms R added it as an unlisted option.
Unfortunately, Ms R either lost the phone or it was stolen, so she made a claim. Amtrust 
asked for statements of what happened, blacklist details for the phone, proof of purchase, ID 
proof, photographs, a police report and for Ms R to pay the policy excess before it would 
deal with the claim. Ms R found this intrusive and a lot of effort. Initially Amtrust provided 
details that showed it was accepting the claim and that Ms R would soon be in receipt of a 
replacement phone. But several weeks into the claim Amtrust declined it stating that the 
value of the phone was above the maximum allowed by the policy and so no cover applied 
to the item. Ms R brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the policy was clear about the £1,500 
individual item limit. Our investigator noted Amtrust had pointed out when adding an item, 
the system wouldnt let items be added for more than £1,500 individually. In this case she 
said Amtrust had acted reasonably. Our investigator said Amtrust was originally going to pay 
the claim, did request a lot of detail, and there were delays in declining the claim. So, she felt 
the offer of £100 compensation for the loss of expectation was reasonable.
Ms R didnt accept this and asked for her complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Within the policy details theres reference to What isnt insured. And specifically, the policy 
goes on to state any gadget with a purchase price over £1,500. To safeguard customers 
regarding this limit Amtrust confirmed that nothing can be added to the policy for an 
individual amount any higher than £1,500. I think such a limit is fairly standard for policies of 
this type and details were included on the policy schedule and the Important Policy 
Information Document. So, I think Amtrust were clear about this policy requirement and 
acted fairly when it applied the exclusion because of it.
Its also clear that Ms R chose to add the item anyway even though the phone wasnt on the 
list linked to the policy and was clearly over the maximum limit. Ms R had to manually put in 
the information and select the value to apply. The option to check was open to Ms R but she 
added the item and valued the item at the set policy limit rather than its true value. This was 
Ms Rs choice and I dont think I can hold Amtrust responsible for that. I think Amtrust 
suggested it would be willing to refund the premiums for the phone while it was on cover and 
I think it should do that if it hasnt already.
I can understand Ms Rs disappointment at the claim not being settled after she provided so 
much information. I take her point about the request for photographs feeling intrusive. But I 
think the information requests were reasonable. I do accept as Ms R has pointed out that 
there was a lot for her to do. But I think the items Amtrust requested are fairly standard 
across the insurance industry for such claims and circumstances. So, I think Ms R mightve 
been in a similar situation with any insurer. I can understand that the amount of time and 
effort she put in wouldve upset her when the claim was declined. It appears all the 
information was gathered electronically. Amtrust said everything from Ms R is saved on 
password protected files so theres no access issues around her details. I think this is 
reassuring. If Ms R wants Amtrust to take further action on this she needs to let Amtrust 
know what that action should be.
Its clear that initially the reason Amtrust accepted the claim was due to the value Ms R had 
placed on the phone when she added it to her policy. It was only when checking for a 
replacement that Amtrust discovered the phone was worth considerably more than the 
individual policy limit of £1,500. Amtrust did apologise for this, confirmed it would pick this up 
with staff and offered £100 for the loss of expectation. I think thats reasonable.
Overall, I think Amtrust made a fair compensation offer. It did take longer than it shouldve 
done to decline the claim. But its given reasons, apologised and offered £100 compensation 
that I think is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against Amtrust Europe Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman