DRN-3521536
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mishandled a claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In October 2020 Mrs M purchased a three-foot bed having seen a picture of it on a retailers 
website. She had phoned the retailer and placed the order, paying for the bed via a credit 
card she has with Lloyds. The bed was later delivered by the retailer to Mrs Ms home.
Mrs M says that she didnt use the bed for about a month or so after it was delivered and 
when she did, she found it was too high for her due to physical health problems she suffers 
with. She says she found the bed wasnt safe for her to use as she needed assistance to get 
on the bed and that using it had made her health condition worse. Mrs M says the bed 
wasnt suitable for her needs.
Mrs M says she contacted the retailer to discuss the problem, but they were unhelpful. She 
therefore decided to make a claim for the cost of the bed under section 75 on the grounds 
that the bed wasnt as described due to its height.
Lloyds responded to Mrs Ms claim and said it wouldnt be taking it further. It said the retailer 
had informed Lloyds that no complaint had been received by it from Mrs M and that it should 
have an opportunity to inspect the bed and repair any issues. Lloyds told Mrs M to contact 
the retailer.
Mrs M was unhappy at Lloyds response, and complained to this service that Lloyds hadnt 
carried out a full review of her section 75 claim as it should have done.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. He said there hadnt 
been a breach of contract as the retailer had delivered what had been ordered and there 
wasnt a fault with the bed as the issue was its height. 
Our investigator went on to say he didnt think there had been a misrepresentation as to the 
beds height as this detail wasnt shown on the website. And there was no evidence Mrs M 
had made enquiries about its height or been misled about the beds dimensions by the 
retailer.
Mrs M disagreed with our investigators view. She said that the height of the bed was double 
what would be expected and the retailer should have ensured consumers who purchased it 
were aware of that.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue for me to consider here was whether Lloyds had handled Mrs Ms claim for 
reimbursement of the cost of the bed fairly. Mrs Ms claim was based on the bed not 
being as described.
The general effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that if a consumer 
has paid for goods or services with a credit agreement, such as a credit card, and they 
have a claim against the supplier of those goods or services for misrepresentation or 
breach of contract, they are given a like claim against the credit provider which here is 
Lloyds.
Ive seen that Lloyds appears to have looked at Mrs Ms claim as though it was a 
potential breach of contract. The retailer told Lloyds it wasnt aware of any complaint by 
Mrs M about the bed and that it should have a right to inspect it and repair any issues. 
However, Mrs M had told Lloyds that the retailer had been rude and unhelpful to her 
when she had made the section 75 claim. Lloyds dont seem to have queried this 
contradiction and in its final response letter advised Mrs M to make contact with the 
retailer which wasnt very helpful.
So, I dont think Lloyds handled Mrs Ms section 75 correctly but looking at all the 
evidence I dont think this has actually caused Mrs M any financial detriment and I will 
explain why.
Mrs M ordered the bed having seen it on the website. I havent seen any evidence that 
the bed that was ordered wasnt the one that was delivered. And although Mrs Ms 
complaint about the bed is about its height, which was unsuitable for her, this isnt a fault 
with the bed. This isnt an issue that can be repaired. Im satisfied that there hasnt been 
a breach of contract here.
However, Mrs M says that the bed is much higher than usual and that this is a feature 
which the retailer should ensure is known by consumers. She says due to her health 
conditions its unsafe for her to use. However, bed heights do vary, and I think that if a 
beds height is something which is important to a consumer then its reasonable to think 
that the onus would be on them to ensure the product is suitable for their needs rather 
than on the retailer to check. I havent seen any evidence that the retailer would have 
been aware of Mrs Ms physical needs. Nor have I seen any evidence that Mrs M asked 
about the height of the bed or was given information about it that was incorrect. The 
beds height wasnt described on the website.
Ive seen Mrs M explained she didnt use the bed until around the Christmas period, 
which was about one month after its delivery. But I think the beds height would have 
been clear when it had been assembled. Mrs M didnt raise her complaint with Lloyds 
until July 2021 which was around nine months later. I appreciate she says she had 
approached the retailer without success, but I still think it would be fair to say Mrs M had 
use of the bed for a period of some months before raising that it wasnt suitable. 
For me to be satisfied there had been a misrepresentation about the bed, there needs to 
be evidence that the retailer had made a false statement of fact and that this false 
statement induced Mrs M to enter into the contract. While I accept the bed is higher than 
Mrs M had expected I cant reasonably say that the retailer advertised it in such a way 
that its height was misrepresented to her.  I havent seen that there was a discussion 
between Mrs M and retailer about what she needed from the bed in respect of its height.
So, although I appreciate Mrs M feels she has been let down by the retailer because the 
beds height made it unsuitable for her, I cant reasonably say that there has been either 
a breach of contract or misrepresentation. This means that Mrs Ms section 75 claim wouldnt have been successful even if Lloyds had investigated it further. The outcome 
would have been the same.
Although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mrs M, for the reasons given Im 
not upholding her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman