DRN-3273536
The complaint
Miss O complains about a hire purchase agreement taken out with Blue Motor Finance Ltd 
(BMF), which she says she didnt agree to.
What happened
In January 2018, Miss O says her ex-partner, who Ill call A, checked with BMF to see if they 
could use finance to buy a used car. Miss O says she was aware that A had started the 
application in her name only, but didnt think he had completed it.
A few days later, Miss O says she discovered that A had successfully applied for a hire 
purchase agreement with BMF in her name, to get a second hand car. She says A 
reassured her that he would make the monthly payments towards the agreement. So, a few 
months later, she changed the direct debit details for the repayments to come from his bank 
account.
Over the next two years, some of the repayments were missed, prompting BMF to contact 
Miss O and ask for debit card payments to make up the arrears. Throughout this time, 
Miss O says A accrued several parking fines, connected to the car, which went unpaid.
In February 2020, the hire purchase agreement fell further into arrears and BMF sent Miss O 
a default notice, which asked for the remainder owed under the loan to be repaid. Miss O 
replied to say that she didnt have the car and asked for the agreement to be transferred into 
As name.
By June 2020, BMF had terminated the agreement, as the arrears hadnt been repaid. 
Miss O complained to BMF and told them the finance was taken out by A without her 
knowledge. She also said that due to a pre-existing car finance agreement, the loan taken 
out in January 2018 was unaffordable.
In their final response to her complaint, BMF said Miss O was responsible for the arrears on 
the account. They said Miss O used her driving licence as identification, when the 
application was made. And that all the paperwork for the loan was sent to Miss Os email 
address, where it was electronically signed by her. BMF also said Miss O had known about 
the agreement, because she called to make the changes to the direct debit in May 2018.
Miss O didnt accept BMFs response to her complaint and brought her case to us. One of 
our investigators looked into everything and found that BMF had treated Miss O fairly. She 
concluded that Miss O was aware of the application and had an understanding with A, that 
he would make the repayments. 
The investigator found the loan to be affordable, after looking at Miss Os income and 
expenditure from the time. And that her concerns arose, once A had stopped making any 
repayments towards the agreement. 
Additionally, the investigator acknowledged Miss Os very difficult personal circumstances. 
She said BMF had offered to consider writing off the remainder of the loan, if Miss O was 
able to tell them where they could recover the car from. Overall, the investigator said that 
offer was fair.
Miss O didnt agree and said the loan with BMF wasnt affordable. She also said she could 
prove she didnt collect the car from the dealership. Miss O sent another copy of the 
agreement and other paperwork to us, but this didnt change the investigators conclusions. 
So, Miss Os case has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This case is about an application for a hire purchase agreement, which is a regulated 
financial product. As such, we are able to consider complaints about it.
The application for the agreement
Miss O has explained that she became aware that her partner at the time, A, had made 
enquiries in her name about the possibility of getting finance to help them buy a car. She 
says it wasnt until A had collected the car from the dealer, that she knew the enquires had 
actually progressed to a successful application.
BMF have shown us that the hire purchase agreement was sent to Miss Os email address 
and was electronically signed by the person who opened the documents. BMF have also 
shown us where Miss Os driving licence was used as identification, as well the searches 
performed on the electoral role for her address and date of birth.
Ive also considered the contact history between Miss O and BMF, since the agreement was 
signed in January 2018. Having done so, Ive listened to several calls where Miss O 
acknowledges the hire purchase agreement and talks about the day to day administration of 
it. I think the calls with BMF support their stance that Miss O had arrangement with A, in that 
he would take up the repayments, when she contacted BMF to change the direct debit 
details in May 2018.
I think the contact records show that Miss O told BMF about a change in her circumstances 
around two years after the agreement was taken out. The records show that in February 
2020, Miss O asked BMF to transfer the agreement into As name, because she didnt have 
possession of the car.
Having considered everything, I think Miss O was aware of the application for the hire 
purchase agreement, before it was agreed by BMF. I think the paperwork was sent to the 
email address Miss O uses and her identification was used to enter the contract with BMF. 
On balance, I think Miss O had an arrangement with A about the repayments under the 
agreement. And that Miss O showed her acceptance of that arrangement, with reference to 
the communication she had with BMF, over a significant period of time. So, I think Miss O 
entered into the hire purchase agreement with BMF.
That said, I do empathise with the very difficult personal circumstances Miss O has 
described. I can see that when her relationship with A changed, she became very concerned 
and distressed about his use of the car, the impact on her financial standing and for her 
safety and wellbeing.
Ive also considered where Miss O says she didnt collect the car from the dealer. Its her view that an acquaintance of A, who was employed by the dealer, helped make that happen. 
BMF have explained that the dealer says they wouldnt allow anyone other than the person 
named on the hire purchase agreement, to take a car away from them.
Based upon all the evidence available, on balance Im not persuaded the dealer allowed a 
third party, other than Miss O, to collect the car. I acknowledge that Miss O may have tried to 
speak to the employee of the dealership shortly afterwards. But after looking at everything, 
Im not persuaded a concern was raised to say the agreement was taken out without 
Miss Os knowledge or authorisation.
In all the circumstances, I think BMF treated Miss O fairly when the hire purchase agreement 
was put into place to allow her to get the car.
The affordability of the loan
The relevant regulations and guidance for BMF to have followed are included in the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). BMF was entering a 
regulated credit agreement and it was required to take reasonable steps to be satisfied 
Miss O would be able to make repayments sustainably without having to resort to further 
finance. 
Checks had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. In 
general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a number 
of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of Miss O. For 
example, her financial history, any foreseeable changes in future circumstances, and any 
indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. The amount, type, length of borrowing and 
cost of the credit Miss O applied for would also be considered. 
In light of this, I think the greater the potential risk to Miss O of not being able to repay the 
credit in a sustainable way, the more thorough a reasonable and proportionate check ought 
to have been carried out by BMF.
The records provided to us by BMF show they carried out their own credit worthiness and 
affordability score, with a widely used credit reference agency. The check with the agency 
shows that in January 2018, Miss O had six active accounts to which she had a 
responsibility to make monthly repayments. 
None of the accounts were in default and I can see that all of the accounts were within their 
credit limits, some with a zero balance. And that repayments were being maintained by 
Miss O. Also, I can see that one of Miss Os financial commitments came to an end in 
October 2017, meaning a substantial monthly repayment was no longer required from that 
point on.
Furthermore, from looking at Miss Os current account statements from the time, I can see 
the income she received was significantly more than her repayments to her lines of credit 
and her priority living costs. I can also see that Miss Os income was able to absorb the 
future monthly repayment to BMF.
Miss O says her financial position worsened at the start of 2018 and has sent us proof that 
her credit score was categorised as poor by a credit reference agency. I accept Miss Os 
personal circumstances changed after the agreement was put into place. But, at the time of 
the application I think BMF carried out the appropriate checks to demonstrate the loan was 
sustainable. 
I also accept what Miss O says about her credit score. But, a credit score generally acts as an indicator to a lender or a borrower, rather than the sole factor to ultimately decide whether 
or not to lend funds.
Ive also thought about Miss Os view that already having a hire purchase agreement in 
place, should have prompted BMF to decline the application. While I acknowledge Miss Os 
opinion here, I think it was more relevant of BMF to consider the overall impact of the new 
loan, on Miss Os income and expenditure. I dont think an existing hire purchase agreement 
is in itself, a reason for a lender to decline an application.
After taking everything into consideration, I think BMF completed proportional checks to see 
if the loan and the repayments were sustainable. So, I think BMF treated Miss O fairly here.
The remaining balance of the loan
Ive concluded that Im persuaded Miss O was aware of and agreed to the loan with BMF. 
So, it follows that she remains responsible for the repayments due under the agreement. 
I acknowledge though, that she had an arrangement with A, where the repayments would 
come from an account in his name, within a few months of the start of the contract. And that 
A is no longer making those repayments.
Miss O says this responsibility places a severe strain on her ability to meet her other 
commitments. BMF have a responsibility to treat Miss Os financial circumstances with 
forbearance and due consideration. 
This means BMF should look at any balance outstanding under the hire purchase agreement 
and work with Miss O to find a fair and suitable repayment arrangement.
BMF have offered to reduce the arrears of the agreement, once they have recovered the car 
and have arranged for it to be sold. This may still leave a balance, which BMF say they will 
consider writing off. This means BMF may choose not to pursue Miss O for any further 
repayment.
I accept that Miss O has concerns, should she agree to assist BMF in the recovery of the 
car, since she says its not in her possession. Miss O has told us about some of the very 
difficult personal circumstances she is currently facing. 
I think BMF have made it clear that they dont want to add to Miss Os concerns. So, I remind 
them to carefully consider what Miss O has told them, should Miss O assist with the recovery 
of the car.
But, having considered everything, I think BMFs suggestion is fair and reasonable as it will 
allow her to reduce the arrears owed under the agreement and then enter into discussions 
about any remaining balance. 
In doing that, I hope it will help Miss O to bring about an end to whats happened and that 
she can move forward safely.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Os complaint  in the sense that I dont to 
require Blue Motor Finance Ltd to take any further action to settle this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman