DRN-4229758
Complaint
Miss C is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) closed her account.
Background
In May 2021, Nationwide took the decision to close Miss Cs account with immediate effect. 
Miss C was unhappy with this and complained however Nationwide didnt uphold the 
complaint. As Miss C remained dissatisfied, Miss C referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Cs concerns. She didnt think that Nationwide had 
done anything wrong or treated Miss C unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Miss C disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our adjudicator explained to Miss C, a financial institution is generally under no obligation 
to continue offering an account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. I know that Miss C 
is unhappy that Nationwide closed her accounts. However, each bank has its own criteria 
and risk assessment for deciding whether to open (or close) accounts and providing a 
customer with an account is a commercial decision that a bank is entitled to take. 
So Im satisfied that Nationwide had sufficient grounds to close Miss Cs account and as 
such its decision to do so wasnt unfair in the circumstances. I realise that Nationwides 
decision will have been very disappointing to Miss C. And I can appreciate why the closure 
of her account will have caused her inconvenience. But despite this, Im simply not in a 
position to be able to tell Nationwide it should have continued offering Miss C an account in 
circumstances where it legitimately decided it no longer wishes to bank with her. 
Equally, while Miss C is unhappy that that her account was closed without notice, Ive 
reviewed Nationwides actions and Im satisfied that it acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of her account when taking the action it did. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Nationwide has acted unfairly 
or unreasonably towards Miss C and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will 
be very disappointing for Miss C. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that shell appreciate why Nationwide was entitled to close her accounts in the way that 
it did. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman