DRN-1728213
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the way UK Insurance (UKI) has handled his car insurance claim 
following his car being stolen. 
What happened
In December 2019, Mr Cs car was stolen and it was reported to the police. The person 
driving Mr Cs car hit a third party vehicle and caused damage. The matter was reported to 
UKI and they agreed to look into the claim. The car was recovered and returned to Mr C and 
he later cancelled the policy in December 2019.
UKI told the insurer of the third party that Mr Cs car had been stolen therefore he wasnt the 
person driving and he didnt cause the damage. UKI and the third party insurer 
communicated with each other as they sought to investigate and settle the claim. As liability 
is still yet to been determined, the claim has remained open.
Mr C is unhappy and said its unfair the claim is being recorded against him. He said UKI 
and the third party insurer are not doing enough to pursue the person responsible for the 
accident and settle the claim. He said its having an impact on his protected no claims 
discount (NCD) and its likely to increase his insurance premiums in the future. Mr C wants 
the claim resolved and to be compensated by UKI. 
Mr C complained to UKI. They said based on the terms of the policy, although the car was 
stolen, they must consider any claim if damage had been caused to a third partys property 
by his car. They said while the identity of the person who stole his car is still being 
investigated, the claim must stay open as to such time it would be appropriate to close it. 
They said if the person responsible was identified, they would settle the third partys claim in 
full but they wouldnt do so if they remained unidentified. Equally if the third party insurer 
didnt contact them for six months, they would consider closing the claim. However UKI 
recognised they shouldve logged Mr Cs complaint earlier and provided a response. By way 
of apology they paid him £50 compensation.
Mr C remained unhappy and said they hadnt considered the impact of the claim on his 
NCD. UKI insurance later added because the claim remained open they had correctly 
recorded it on his NCD document. However, they said if the claim is later closed and the 
claim status changes, the NCD document could be amended.
UKI said Mr C had the maximum nine years NCD and it hadnt been reduced due to this 
open claim because its his first one. Should Mr C have another claim on the policy, they 
said the NCD would reduce to three years. They also said the NCD protection doesnt 
protect the overall price of the policy and premiums may increase following an accident or 
claim, even if Mr C wasnt at fault.
Unhappy with their response, Mr C referred the complaint to our service. The investigator 
recommended it shouldnt be upheld. They felt UKI had acted fairly and in line with the terms 
of the policy. Mr C disagreed. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
At this point, I must highlight that it isnt my role or that of this service to determine liability or 
who is at fault. Instead, I must consider whether UKI has acted fairly and reasonably when 
investigating Mr Cs claim. 
Claim liability
The terms of the policy say, UKI are entitled to take over and carry out the negotiation,
defence or settlement of any claim. This is a common term in insurance policies. 
The terms also say:
We will cover you for your legal liability to other people arising from an accident which
involves your car and:
 you kill or injure someone;
 you damage someone elses property
This means UKI are responsible for looking into a claim involving Mr Cs car which caused 
damage to a third party vehicle. 
When settling a claim, insurers will record it as a fault, non-fault. However I think its worth 
explaining that a fault claim doesnt necessarily mean the policyholder was to blame for the 
accident or damage caused. Instead, it means the insurer has been unable to recover all 
their costs from a third party. In this case, the third party insurer is attempting to recover its 
losses from UKI, which is why the claim remains open.
UKI has told the third party insurer that Mr Cs car was stolen and he wasnt the driver at the 
time of the accident therefore he didnt cause the damage. As they are contesting liability I 
would expect UKI to take this course of action. When dealing with claims involving liability, it 
isnt uncommon for this to take several months and perhaps longer to resolve. This is 
because not only do insurers communicate and negotiate with each other but there may be 
other parties involved which may cause delays. For example in this case, UKI claim notes 
show they have been requesting and chasing the third party insurer as to whether they have 
received the police report and if the person responsible has been identified. 
As liability is yet to be determined and the claim is yet to be settled, I think its reasonable for 
the open claim to be recorded as fault, which is what UKI has done.  This is common 
practice in the insurance sector so I cant say UKI have done anything wrong by recording it 
this way.
In cases of stolen cars/unauthorised drivers and the person responsible is identified, the 
relevant law which applies is the Road Traffic Act 1988 (RTA). Based on circumstances of 
this case, the RTA requires UKI to consider the claim as if the policy was valid and whoever 
was driving was insured on it. However they wont be required to do so if the person isnt 
identified. As this is a requirement by law, it is fair that UKI follows this and I would expect 
them to explain this to Mr C, which I can see theyve done. 
I understand the situation is frustrating for Mr C especially as the claim still remains 
unresolved. Having seen UKI claim notes, Im satisfied theyve been in regular contact with the third party insurer from the outset of the claim so Im satisfied they havent caused any 
unnecessary delays and they are trying to progress it. 
No claims discount (NCD)
Mr C said he is concerned the open claim is affecting his protected NCD and its recorded on 
his NCD document. UKI said although the open claim has affected the protection of the 
NCD, it hasnt reduced it because this is his first claim. For the reasons explained above, I 
believe its reasonable for UKI to record the open claim on the NCD document, again this is 
common practice amongst insurers. Im also satisfied the claim hasnt reduced the number 
of NCD years as per the terms of the policy.  
Once the claim is closed and depending on whether it is closed as fault or non-fault, I would 
expect UKI to amend the NCD document appropriately. They said they would do so which is 
reasonable and I have no reason to doubt this wont happen. 
Increased premium 
Mr C thinks its unfair that the open claim will increase his renewal premium and UKI should 
compensate him for this.
It isnt my role to determine how much an insurer should charge for the cover it provides, this 
is a commercial decision that our service wouldnt generally interfere with providing it would 
apply to all consumers. When calculating the premium, insurers assess the level of risk and 
the likelihood of a claim based on a number of factors. For example, the type of car, where 
its kept, the policyholders age and driving history, etc. It isnt solely based on past or open 
claims but this would be taken into consideration by insurers, regardless of who is to blame 
for a claim or whether the car was stolen.
Mr C hasnt provided evidence to show he has been charged a higher premium as a result of 
the open claim so I cant say he has suffered a loss. But in any event as explained above, 
when determining the price of a premium, potential insurers will consider this claim whether 
its recorded as fault or non-fault along with many other factors too. So although Mr Cs NCD 
was protected, I must stress this was a discount applied to the premium, it doesnt protect 
the price of a policy in the future. The premium may rise even if a third party is held 
completely at fault for the claim. Therefore it wouldnt be fair to ask UKI to compensate Mr C 
for this.
UKIs records show Mr C cancelled the policy in December 2019. They said they cant 
consider whether any refund of premiums are due because of the open claim. Given the 
circumstances, I believe this is fair.
SummaryI understand my decision will disappoint Mr C and I appreciate the situation is frustrating 
especially as the claim remains unresolved. But for the reasons explained above, Im 
satisfied UKI are dealing with the claim fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms of the 
policy. They have also paid £50 compensation for the delay in responding to his complaint 
and given the circumstances, I believe this was fair. Therefore I wont be asking UKI to do 
anything further however I would expect them to provide regular updates to Mr C about the 
progress of his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman