DRN-4418145
The complaint
Mrs R and Mr R complain Kensington Mortgage Company Limited declined their application 
to add Mr R to Mrs Rs mortgage and about the time their application took.
What happened
Mrs R has a capital and interest repayment mortgage with Kensington Mortgage Company 
Limited that started in 2008 and is secured over her residential property. Mr R has been 
paying towards the mortgage for many years. Because of concerns about Mrs Rs health, 
they felt it would be prudent to add Mr R to the mortgage.
Mrs R and Mr R submitted a transfer of equity (TOE) application to Kensington in around late 
September 2022. Kensington made many requests for information, which Mrs R and Mr R 
felt were unreasonable. And in April 2023 they declined the application. Mrs R and Mr R 
complained Kensington had done so unfairly and about the time things had taken. 
Kensington explained the application had been declined since it didnt meet their lending 
policy that required the contractual monthly payments (CMP) under the mortgage to be 
made in full and on time for a minimum period of 12 months; theyd considered the 
application despite that, knowing the circumstances that had led to the CMP not being paid; 
the application was looked at by multiple areas of their business; but in the end theyd been 
unable to accept it because of the risk it presented.
Kensington said a successful TOE application could typically take six to twelve months to 
complete. They said their general turnaround times were between five and ten days, and 
where an underwriter review was needed, they could be between ten to fifteen days. They 
acknowledged that in Mrs R and Mr Rs case things had sometimes taken longer. 
Kensington apologised for the level of service theyd provided and offered Mrs R and Mr R 
£150 to compensate them for the delay and having to contact them for updates.
Since they didnt accept Kensingtons response, Mrs R and Mr R brought their complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator came to the view Kensington hadnt 
declined the application unfairly and that the compensation theyd offered for the service 
theyd provided was fair in all the circumstances. Since Mrs R and Mr R didnt agree, their 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I may not mention everything the parties have told us. No discourtesy is intended by that. It 
simply reflects the informal nature of the service we provide. Ill focus on what I think is key 
in coming to my decision.
I appreciate the circumstances in which Mrs R and Mr R made the application and I can 
understand Kensingtons decision was disappointing. However, for reasons that are broadly 
the same as our investigators, I dont uphold this complaint, as Ill explain.
There was no contractual right under the mortgage that meant Kensington should agree to 
add Mr R to the mortgage. Under the relevant mortgage rules, Kensington could have set 
aside the requirement to carry out an affordability assessment. And we wouldnt have 
considered it fair if Kensington had declined the application based on affordability if it had 
been in Mrs R and Mr Rs best interests for the application to go ahead. But Kensington 
came to a commercial decision based on whether they were prepared to accept the risk they 
felt the application presented for them.
Ive noted all the reasons Mrs R has given as to why there is no risk to Kensington to the 
TOE taking place such as the low loan to value ratio and that adding another borrower to the 
mortgage would make it more affordable. But Kensington are entitled to take commercial 
decisions about their lending, and we wouldnt generally interfere with them, provided they 
give any applications fair and reasonable consideration. From the information theyve 
provided, Im satisfied Kensington gave the application fair consideration at underwriter level 
and beyond. 
The decision Kensington made was in line with their lending criteria for assessing TOE 
applications. They included that they wouldnt usually approve an application where the 
borrower hadnt been making their full CMP for 12 months. Although Mrs R had been paying 
the mortgage from overpayments shed made in the past, that hadnt been agreed with 
Kensington. And the amount by which her account was in credit was going down. As a 
result, she fell outside Kensingtons lending criteria for TOE applications. Kensington did 
consider whether they could make an exception in Mrs Rs case given the information shed 
provided about her health. But they werent prepared to because of the other issues theyd 
found.
Kensington were aware of several credit commitments Mrs R and Mr R had recently taken 
out. Mrs Rs explained the reasons for that and that she and Mr R were able to manage their 
borrowing. But I can understand why the level of borrowing and number of agreements 
would have caused Kensington concern about their circumstances and ability to pay the 
mortgage in the future when looked at as part of their overall finances.
Kensington discovered that a company in which Mrs R had been a director had gone into 
liquidation. They were concerned that hadnt been disclosed to them. I take Mrs Rs point 
that at the time of her application the company still existed, and that the question put to her 
initially was about her personal finances, not those of any company she was involved in. But 
I can understand why Kensington felt the information was relevant to the application given 
other information they had about her financial circumstances. 
Bearing everything in mind, I think Kensington fairly considered Mrs R and Mr Rs application 
and acted reasonably in declining the application. 
I can understand it was disappointing and frustrating for Mrs R and Mr R when their 
application was turned down after several months during which theyd provided a great deal 
of information and documentation. Overall, the time it took to decide on the application was 
broadly within Kensingtons usual timescales. But they acknowledged they hadnt always 
dealt with things as quickly as they should have done and offered Mrs R and Mr R £150 
compensation to put things right. I think that was fair in the circumstances given Mrs R and 
Mr R had to contact them for updates. I can understand that will have been inconvenient and 
stressful when they were trying to make changes to the mortgage in light of Mrs Rs health 
concerns. I appreciate Mrs R and Mr R incurred legal fees in relation to the application. But 
since I dont think Kensington were wrong to decline the application, it wouldnt be fair to ask 
them to pay those costs. I understand Mrs R and Mr R will be disappointed. But, bearing everything in mind, I dont 
uphold their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman