DRN-3613345
The complaint
Mr B and his father, Mr B, complain that Nationwide Building Society wont refund numerous 
unauthorised payments made from their account. 
For ease of reference, Ive referred only to Mr B throughout my decision. 
What happened
Mr B contacted Nationwide in March 2022 to dispute a number of payments that had taken 
place on his account that he says he didnt make. Nationwide declined to refund this alleged 
loss, as it considered the payments were all authorised.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding there was a lack of evidence to 
show Mr Bs account security had been compromised. Also, Mr B hadnt provided a logical 
explanation for how these payments were made possible without his consent. 
Mr B disagrees with this assessment. He maintains it wasnt him that made these 
transactions, as he would never send money to someone he didnt know. Because the 
parties are not in agreement, the complaint has been escalated to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I empathise with the detriment Mr B says this matter has caused him, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by our investigator. I say so for the following reasons:
I have to bear in mind that Mr Bs version of events has been inconsistent, particularly 
regarding who carried out the disputed transactions. For the most part, his position is 
that he didnt make these payments. As such, Ive considered my findings on the basis of 
Mr Bs claim that he didnt agree for these payments to leave his account and be paid to 
someone else.  
The starting position under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) is that Mr B 
is liable for payments he has authorised. Pursuant to the PSRs, authorisation depends 
on whether the payment transactions were authenticated correctly and whether Mr B 
consented to them.
Its common ground Mr Bs banking credentials were used to make the payments. To 
that end, Im satisfied the transactions were authenticated. Accordingly, Ive gone on to 
consider whether he gave his consent for the payments to be made. 
The PSRs state how consent is given  it must be in the form and in accordance with the 
procedure agreed between Mr B and Nationwide. In simpler terms, consent happens 
when Mr B uses the steps prescribed by Nationwide to make a transaction. Its also 
possible for someone else to act on his behalf and use these agreed steps.
Nationwide has submitted a host of technical information to support that the payments 
were performed with Mr Bs consent. Such as, evidence to demonstrate that the 
transactions being contended were made using the same devices as the ones that Mr B 
used for account movements before (that were not raised as fraudulent). Theres also no 
question that Mr B made numerous account debits and credits during this same period, 
proving that he had ample access to the very online banking facilities used to make 
these disputed transactions. 
Whats more, its evident the registered device Mr B had at the time was associated with 
at least one of the payees that was created, which he claims was where his money was 
lost. We know there are several steps involved when setting up this type of instruction. 
Including, differing levels of security information and passcodes needed for someone to 
have been able to satisfy Nationwides security precautions. Amongst other measures, 
this meant the use of Mr Bs fingerprint to login to his mobile device  a biometric method 
which is regarded as very secure given its extremely difficult to successfully replicate. 
Suffice to say, the evidence presented by Nationwide strongly affirms its position. On the 
other hand, Mr B has been unable to provide a plausible explanation for how someone 
other than him could have accessed his account facilities without his consent. For me to 
accept his side of things and uphold the complaint, I would need to place considerable 
evidential weight on Mr Bs testimony. But in fairness, his statement is slightly vague and 
self-contradictory regarding what are critical elements to a case of this kind. 
I must follow the evidence and, ultimately, Mr B hasnt persuasively proven his case 
despite having been given a fair chance to do so. I therefore cannot safely conclude that 
these payments were unauthorised. It follows that it would not be fair or reasonable to 
hold Nationwide liable for the financial loss being claimed for.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman