DRN-2564393
The complaint
Mrs K complained that the settlement offered by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) 
under her home insurance policy for damage caused by a water leak was unfair.
What happened
Mrs K had a water leak which resulted in damage, which included her flooring and some 
units in her kitchen. She made a claim on her policy to RSA who appointed its contractors to 
assess the claim. Initially, Mrs K was offered a settlement to repair the damage to the floor, 
but another contractor was later sent out by RSA to assess the rest of the damage. In the 
meantime, Mrs K had her own independent contractor quote for all the works.
Following a full assessment, RSA agreed that an insured event had occurred and made a 
settlement to Mrs K. It offered Mrs K two options, for its contractors to rectify all the damage 
to her kitchen or to provide a cash settlement in line with the terms of her policy, which 
amounted to an offer of £5,109.12 less the policy excess.
Mrs K wasnt happy with the settlement. Her own independent contractor had quoted 
£14,650 for the works, so she didnt think the settlement from RSA was fair. RSA said its 
settlement complied with the terms of the policy. In its professional opinion it said the 
settlement would put Mrs K in the position she was in before the insured event. It explained 
its policy terms limited any cash settlement to the amount it would cost RSA to pay its own 
contractors to complete the works. RSA also said some of the kitchen units werent 
damaged and so these werent covered by the policy. However, as part of the settlement it 
offered Mrs K a 50% contribution towards replacing these items.
Mrs K has asked RSA to pay her £14,650 for her own contractor to do the works, as well as 
£1,000 in compensation. Mrs K said the delays had an impact on a vulnerable member of 
the household and she also didnt think some of the questions that RSAs contractors asked 
her were reasonable in assessing her claim.  
Our investigator recommended not to uphold the complaint as he thought RSA had offered a 
fair settlement and had dealt with the claim reasonably. He said RSA had more than 
complied with the terms of the policy. Mrs K didnt accept this view and asked for the case to 
be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA has accepted that an insured event took place, so I will look at whether it has offered a 
fair settlement to Mrs K for her claim. To determine whether RSA has been fair, I have 
looked at their assessment of the damage and reviewed whether its settlement has complied 
with the terms and conditions of the policy.
It is normal for insurers to appoint contractors to assess the damage. I havent got a problem 
with the process RSA followed, it has added a level of independence from a third party. I 
think their approach is reasonable, although I would have liked them to have carried out the 
full assessment of the damage on the first visit. I have reviewed the report produced by the 
appointed contractor and its thorough and supported by photographic evidence. I have also 
seen their estimates for rectifying the damage. Having considered the evidence, its my view 
that RSA has completed a fair assessment of the damage.
I have looked to see if RSA has settled this damage in line with the policy. The policy states, 
Where we can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier, but we agree to pay 
our customer a cash settlement, then payment will normally not exceed the amount we 
would have paid our preferred supplier.
RSA offered to do the work using its preferred supplier and it has offered Mrs K a cash 
settlement equivalent to what it would have paid its preferred contractor if it had done the 
work. As RSA has offered a settlement that is compliant with the terms of the policy, I cant 
say it has been unfair on this matter.
I have also considered whether I think RSAs 50% contribution towards undamaged kitchen 
units is fair. Again, I have reviewed the policy. It states, We will not pay for: Replacing or 
changing undamaged parts of your buildings which belong to a set or suite or which
have a common design or use, such as a bathroom suite or fitted kitchen units, when the 
damage. Under the policy, RSA dont have to pay anything towards the undamaged units, 
so I think it has been very reasonable in contributing towards the cost of these units. It 
seems to me that it has been fair and in doing so it has provided a good customer service.
In summary looking at the settlement, I dont think RSA have been unfair, so I cant uphold 
this aspect of the complaint.
Mrs K did complain about some of the questions that were asked by RSAs appointed 
contractor in assessing the claim. I have reviewed the nature of these questions and in my 
opinion the contractor was reasonable in his approach to understand the circumstances of 
the claim and to check the claim was compliant with the terms of the policy. Therefore, I 
dont uphold this aspect of the complaint.
Finally, I have considered the overall customer service offered by RSA, especially as Mrs K 
has mentioned the impact of the claim on a vulnerable member of the household. The claim 
was interrupted by Covid and I think Mrs K understood this and was patient in waiting for the 
damage assessment to be carried out. RSA did try to accelerate the claim by asking Mrs K 
to send photographic evidence into their claims team, but due to the nature of the damage, 
Mrs K was unable to do this. However, I think RSA were fair in exploring options.
There were two visits required to assess the damage at the property Given the 
circumstances, I think RSA were reasonable on insisting on the second visit to ensure it 
properly validated the damage. So, I cant say RSA has offered a poor customer service and 
I cant uphold this aspect of the complaint. I think it has been both fair and reasonable. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc to do anything more. Mrs K can still accept one of the settlement options 
provided by RSA. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman