DRN-2628797
The complaint
Mrs G has complained about the cash settlement shes received from The National Farmers 
Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (the NFU) for a claim she made for damage caused 
by a fire, to her house and contents. Mrs G says she hasnt received a fair and reasonable 
settlement and hasnt been reimbursed for all of the costs she has incurred. Shes also 
complained that the NFU hasnt provided her with details of their calculations or copies of 
invoices from their sub-contractors. 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision, partially upholding this complaint on 5 February 2021. I 
asked the parties to let me have any final comments or evidence to consider, by 19 February 
2021. Both parties have now responded. This is what I said in my provisional decision:
What happened
Theres been a number of experts and businesses involved in this complaint who acted on 
behalf of the NFU. To avoid confusion, Ill refer to the NFU by name in this decision, even 
when referring to the actions of its agents and contractors. The NFU has also been 
represented in this complaint by their solicitors who Ill refer to as the NFUs representatives. 
Mrs G is represented in her complaint by her loss assessor, Mr E, who Ill refer to as Mrs Gs 
representative. 
On 8 January 2016, Mrs Gs house and contents were damaged by an electrical fire at the 
property. At the time of the fire there were three adults and two dogs residing at the property. 
Mrs G made a claim under her policy for the losses shed suffered as a result of the fire. The 
NFU accepted liability to repair the property, but Mrs G chose to rebuild the house, so the 
NFU paid her a cash settlement of £75,600.00 (including VAT), to cover the cost of repair, 
which she could apply towards the cost of rebuilding.
With regard to the contents, the NFU paid the total sum of £19,640.72 for contents and plants 
that had been damaged beyond economic repair.
And in relation to alternative accommodation and disturbance allowance, the NFU paid a total 
sum of £41,695.40 to settle this part of the claim, broken down as follows:
£34,425.40 for hotel costs to 2 September 2016
£7,110.00 for disturbance allowance (237 days @£30 (for three persons each 
day))
£160.00 for kennel costs
Mrs G believes that approximately £370,000 is due to her for her buildings and contents, so 
complains that the NFU hasnt fairly settled her claim. Shes also unhappy about the way the 
NFU has handled her claim. 
After receiving her complaint, the NFU issued their final response to Mrs G on 7 June 2019, 
not upholding her complaint about the level of service shed received from them. They agreed 
the loss adjuster could have responded to her queries sooner than they did, at times, but 
didnt feel this had a detrimental impact on the outcome of her claim. They provided copies of 
the loss adjusters communications with her representative in response to her complaint that 
the information shed provided to them had been ignored. And they said they felt the claim 
had been fairly settled and all outstanding payments had been made in full and final 
settlement of the claim. 
With regard to Mrs Gs contents claim, the NFU said the items that were cleaned, had been 
restored to pre-incident condition and the contents which the NFU declined to cover werent 
contaminated or damaged in any way as a result of the fire. They also explained that they 
werent obliged to provide Mrs G with a copy of the invoices for cleaning. The NFU disputed 
Mrs Gs claim that their loss adjusters had refused to engage with her representative and felt 
everything had been addressed, so there were no outstanding matters to correspond on. 
They also disagreed that theyd failed to treat Mrs G fairly as a customer. 
Our investigator considered all the points made by Mrs G in relation to her claim, and issued 
her view on 29 May 2020, partially upholding her complaint. She concluded that the NFU 
should pay Mrs G £1,500 for the distress and inconvenience caused to her by their poor 
communication, and due to the way the alternative accommodation was handled. Our 
investigator considered Mrs Gs complaint points under a number of separate headings, 
within her view. I shall take the same approach in this decision. So, rather than recounting the 
details of each element of Mrs Gs complaint here, I will provide a brief summary of the issue, 
in the What Ive provisionally decided - and why? section below, and I will give my 
provisional decision on each of the complaint points, in turn.
The NFU accepted our investigators view but Mrs G did not. She made some additional 
comments in response to the view and requested an ombudsmans decision on her 
complaint. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mrs G that although I havent addressed each and every point shes 
raised, Ive carefully considered all of the available evidence in making my provisional 
decision and have focused on the key issues that have a bearing on the outcome Ive arrived 
at. For clarity, Ive addressed these issues under the following headings: Concerns regarding 
contamination; Settlement of claim for damage to the building; Settlement of claim for damage 
to contents; Alternative Accommodation; and Compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Concerns regarding contamination
Ive started by considering Mrs Gs concerns regarding the contamination of the building and 
contents, because it is the key issue in dispute between Mrs G and the NFU over what 
constitutes a fair settlement of her claim.
It appears from the evidence available, that Mrs G made the decision to rebuild the property, 
rather than repair it, because of her concerns about the building being contaminated and the 
potential impact on the health of the occupiers. Similarly, Mrs G only accepted a few items 
back from storage after the fire, because she was concerned the items were contaminated 
and felt that their presence in the house would have an adverse effect on the occupiers.  
Mrs G provided a report prepared by her son, who was studying for a PhD, which 
summarised findings from scientific papers about the potential for harmful toxins to remain in 
various materials, following a fire, and the possible impact this could have on the health of the 
occupiers. On the basis of his report, Mrs G felt that the only way to manage the potential risk 
to their health, posed by the toxins, was to rebuild the property and dispose of the contents. 
She therefore believes the NFU should pay the costs shes incurred in rebuilding the property. 
She also believes the NFU should reimburse her for all of the contents she disposed of, 
following the fire, as set out in her own list of contents.  Given the very real concerns Mrs G had about the property and contents being contaminated, 
the NFU arranged for an expert report to be carried out in regard to contamination following 
the fire. The expert report concluded there wasnt any indication that the house had been 
contaminated as a result of the fire.
After considering both reports, our investigator felt the experts report was more persuasive 
and concluded it was unlikely the house had been contaminated by the fire. 
Ive carefully considered Mrs Gs report and the expert report provided by the NFU. The two 
reports do agree on some of the key issues, including the fact that following a fire, there will 
be some evidence of hazardous substances present in the air and on surfaces in the 
property, which, in certain concentrations, could cause harm to health. However, the NFUs 
expert concluded it was unlikely there would be sufficient concentration of those substances, 
in the building or contents, following remediation using specialist techniques to cause such 
harm. Mrs Gs son disagreed.
The NFUs representatives made the following two additional points, following a review of the 
two reports. They said:
If Mrs Gs sons findings were correct, it would seem to suggest that whenever there 
is fire damage to a property, the property would have to be demolished due to 
dangerous toxins released  which as a matter of common sense cant be correct; 
and
as theres no evidence to show the property has been dangerously contaminated by 
gases released by the fire, there is therefore no justification for the demolition and 
rebuild of the property.
Where the evidence is inconsistent or contradictory, as it is here, I make my decision based 
on the balance of probabilities, that is, what I think is more likely than not, the case. And 
having carefully considered Mrs Gs report, and the report provided by the NFU, I find the 
NFUs expert report to be more persuasive. I will explain why.
Mrs Gs son is clearly a well-educated individual, who has carried out research on hazardous 
substances formed during a fire, and different products available to remediate property thats 
been affected by fire. However, the NFUs expert is a Chartered Chemist, a fire investigator, 
and a member of his firms contamination assessment team, with years of experience in 
investigating and reporting on contamination following fire damage to buildings and contents. 
Although the NFUs expert didnt attend the property, he based his report on photographs of 
the property taken two days after the fire which showed the extent of the fire and smoke 
damage within the property. While I accept that Mrs Gs son resided at the property, his report 
doesnt provide the same analysis of the damage and resulting likely contamination of the 
various rooms. The NFUs expert commented on the photos and the location of the visible 
smoke contamination being confined to the kitchen and to a low level, in the attic space 
above. He said that the photographs show no visible smoke deposits in the main corridor from 
the kitchen towards the front of the house or in any of the rooms routed from it. 
The NFUs expert said that it was likely that in the kitchen, all of the contamination was on the 
visible surfaces which could be cleaned, or the surface materials could be removed. If there 
remained a presence of any harmful substances in the property, following the remediation 
practices that are usually adopted in repairing buildings and contents damaged by fire, the 
NFUs expert concluded that the level of substance would likely have been reduced to 
harmless background levels. He explained in some detail the specialist scientific techniques 
used by remediation firms to check for contamination and to effectively remediate buildings 
and contents following a fire.
Finally, the NFUs expert agreed with Mrs Gs son that in sufficient concentrations, many of 
the substances produced during a fire, are harmful to health. However, he said that very low 
concentrations of components of smoke, often below the limits of detection by smell, are not 
expected to have a harmful effect on human health (which he explained was supported by the 
World Health Organisations air safety guidelines). He observed that Mrs Gs sons report made no mention of there being acceptable limits of those substances, and concluded his 
views and proposals were unrealistic. 
In conclusion, the NFUs expert said there was no evidence to suggest any meaningful 
contamination of the main structure. He said he would expect typical remediation practices to 
have removed smoke contaminants down to background levels, (i.e. that wouldnt affect 
human health). 
Ive gone into some detail on the question of whether the property and contents were 
contaminated, because, whether the NFU have fairly settled Mrs Gs claim, depends on 
whether Im satisfied the property was contaminated to the extent that it needed to be 
demolished and rebuilt, and the contents disposed of. In obtaining an expert opinion on this 
question of the likely contamination of the property, the NFU has taken the necessary steps 
we would expect them to take in these circumstances.
Having carefully considered all of the available evidence regarding the contamination of the 
property and contents, Im currently of the view that its more likely than not, the building 
wasnt sufficiently contaminated by the fire so as to justify the demolition and rebuild of the 
property, and there was no need for all of the contents in the house and garden to be 
disposed of.
Settlement of claim for damage to the building
The NFU has provided a copy of the schedule of works which initially estimated the costs for 
the repair of the building to be £53,997.50. The NFU offered £75,600.00 which they said also 
covered the asbestos testing and clearing of asbestos from the property. They also provided 
a certificate to show that no asbestos was detected at the time of the inspection. Our 
investigator said the roof wasnt damaged in the fire, aside from in the loft space, and as 
Mrs G decided to repair the property herself, the offer the NFU made of £75,600.00 was fair in 
the circumstances. She didnt think it was fair to ask the NFU to cover the costs Mrs G had 
incurred in re-building the house. 
Mrs G disagreed and told us that shed decided to rebuild after researching proven scientific 
papers on smoke / fire damage and the realisation that there is a more serious risk to their 
health if refurbishment isnt done as soon as possible (and this was already more than six 
months after the fire had occurred).
She also said that when her builders started to strip out the interior of the property, the NFUs 
surveyor didnt attend the property. She says that if they had, they would have been able to 
see further damage that wasnt seen in the partial surveys, such as the wood rot in the roof, 
the joists underneath the wooden floorboards and in the floorboards themselves. However, 
the NFU said that, following a further meeting at the property with Mrs Gs builder, the initial 
cash settlement amount was increased by approximately £10,000 to take account of all of the 
issues relevant to the repair of the building.
Mrs G prepared a schedule of costs in relation to rebuilding the property which included the 
building regulation fees, architects fees, planning application fees and building costs, totalling 
approximately £200,000. Although I have considered those costs, Id only consider making an 
award of that amount if Id concluded that the NFU was liable for the cost of rebuilding the 
property  which I havent done.
The NFUs evidence, in relation to agreeing a cash settlement amount for the repair of the 
building, is largely contained within the interim reports that were completed during the period 
of the claim.
In the third interim report, completed in August 2016, the loss adjuster said that costings were 
obtained from the surveyor and Mrs Gs preferred builder at the beginning of April 2016. On 
the basis that her contractor was going to do the work they sought to arrange a meeting at the 
property when Mrs G told them she was awaiting the grant of planning permission to rebuild 
the property. A further site meeting was arranged with the NFUs surveyor and loss adjuster and Mrs G, her daughter and her builder. The interim report says that Mrs Gs contractor and 
the surveyor agreed that the toxicity issues would be eliminated during the course of the 
reinstatement works, and explained this to Mrs G. The loss adjuster reviewed the repair 
schedule with the builder and agreed a number of additional items, which Mrs Gs builder 
subsequently provided additional costs for their consideration. They agreed an additional 
figure of just over £10,000 with the builder for the additional items. In the fourth interim report 
completed in October 2016, the loss adjuster said that proposals for the cash settlement of 
£75,600 (including VAT) were sent to Mrs Gs solicitors on 2 September 2016. They said that 
on 29 September 2016, her solicitor confirmed she had started work on the reconstruction of 
the house and wouldnt accept the cash offer. However, it was paid to her on 
11 November 2016.
In the fifth interim report completed in November 2016, the loss adjuster said the cost of the 
building repairs had been fully scheduled between their surveyor and costed by Mrs Gs 
builder. The work was valued at £75,600 (including VAT). 
Ive already provisionally concluded that the NFU isnt liable for rebuilding the property, based 
on Mrs Gs contamination concerns. So, Im satisfied that Mrs Gs claim for damage to her 
building can be fairly settled by the NFU making a cash settlement for the cost of repair. What 
remains for me to decide is whether the cash settlement offer of £75,600 (including VAT) is 
adequate to discharge the NFUs liability for the building part of the claim.
The policy terms and conditions provide cover for damage caused to the buildings by fire and 
say that the NFU will settle claims by paying the cost of repairing or replacing the buildings. In 
doing so, they will pay for damage to the buildings up to the limit of £307,742, and if the 
insured doesnt repair the building, the NFU will pay the loss in market value or the cost of 
repair or replacement, whichever is the less. The amount they pay will include costs for 
clearing the site and professional fees.
Ive carefully considered the steps the NFU has taken in arriving at their settlement figure. I 
note theyve had at least two site visits to the property to discuss the schedule of repair works 
with Mrs G and her builder, and during the second visit, increased the total by £10,000, 
following discussions with her builder. The NFU interim reports record that Mrs Gs builder 
agreed the settlement amount would be sufficient to cover the necessary repairs to the 
property, if Mrs G had decided to repair rather than rebuild the house.
In the circumstances I think the NFU has taken reasonable steps to arrive at a settlement 
figure that would likely have met the cost of repairing the damage to Mrs Gs house caused by 
the fire. So, Im not currently minded to require the NFU to do anything further in relation to 
settling Mrs Gs building claim.
Settlement of claim for damage to contents 
Mrs G has also complained about the cash settlement £19,640.72 the NFU has paid her for 
damage caused to her contents. Mrs G prepared a detailed schedule of contents she 
estimated to be valued in excess of £250,000. She felt that the inventory sheets completed by 
the NFUs agent were incomplete and she also felt that none of the contents had been 
properly cleaned or restored. When she went to view the contents in March 2019 she said 
that the storage container smelt of smoke which caused her to cough. She felt the contents 
had all been contaminated by the smoke, so requested that the NFUs contractor dispose of a 
number of the contents, and after inspecting the remaining contents, she proceeded to 
dispose of them herself.  
Our investigator considered Mrs Gs concerns but explained that she didnt think it was fair to 
ask the NFU to make provision in the cash settlement for contents that werent affected by the 
fire and were disposed of by Mrs G because she felt they were contaminated. Our 
investigator concluded the NFUs offer was fair in the circumstances. She also concluded that 
the NFUs decision to not carry out PAT testing on the electrical items which were put in 
storage was reasonable given the proximity of the items to the fire.Mrs G says they werent reimbursed for the food they had to dump from the fridge / freezer 
and their neighbour wasnt compensated for the electricity they let her use to keep the freezer 
going overnight. Mrs G estimated the total value of the food that she disposed of from her 
fridge, freezer and kitchen to be £1,400. She provided the NFU with three detailed pages of 
contents in support of this element of her claim. In response to a question raised by our 
investigator as to whether this part of the claim had been settled, the NFU confirmed in an 
email to us dated 22 May 2020, that those costs werent met as part of the settlement. The 
NFUs contractor listed and removed the contents from the property over a period of three 
months. Ive reviewed the many pages of inventory that were completed during that time. 
Following their review of that inventory, the NFU paid Mrs G an initial settlement of £8,237 for 
contents that were deemed beyond economic repair (BER). 
Mrs G expressed concern regarding contamination of the contents, which Ive addressed in 
the earlier part of this decision. In March 2018, her representative submitted a revised 
contents claim in the sum of £251,910.65. The NFU instructed their loss adjuster to complete 
a detailed validation exercise on the BER list and validated the BER contents list in the sum of 
£19,640.72.  
Ive reviewed the 23-page schedule of contents prepared by Mrs G, the complete inventory 
prepared by the NFUs contractors when removing the contents from the property on a 
number of dates, and the eight-page schedule prepared by the loss adjuster, to loss adjust 
the BER contents.
Both Mrs G and the NFU agree that some of the contents were rendered beyond economic 
repair as a result of the fire. However, the total value of contents claimed for by Mrs G 
amounts to £251,910.65. Whereas, the total amount due under the contents claim calculated 
by the loss adjuster, on the basis of adjusted costs, is £19,640.72. So, the question I need to 
answer is whether the settlement paid by the NFU for the damaged contents discharges their 
liability under the policy and is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. The policy provides 
cover for damage to household goods, personal belongings and valuables, caused by fire or 
smoke with a limit of indemnity of £44,731 for general contents, and a further £14,910 for 
valuables. The terms provide the NFU will agree to settle claims by paying the cost of 
repairing or replacing the contents and will reduce the benefit to allow for wear and tear if the 
claim involves clothing. The terms say the NFU may at their option, replace contents or 
arrange for repairs to be carried out. 
Under the heading, Additional insurance the policy also provides cover for the cost of storing 
the insureds furniture, if the insured cant reside in their home because of damage, to a total 
sum of 25% of the insured replacement cost for contents.
Cover for food in a fridge or freezer in the home which couldnt be used because of a change 
in temperature or contamination by fumes from the fridge or freezer is also provided by the 
policy, which says such claims will be settled by paying the cost of replacing the food.
Mrs Gs policy schedule also confirmed that cover would be provided for the following specific 
items, up to the limit set out alongside:
Toshiba laptop:  £3000
Dell Inspiron 6000 laptop: £1,167
Although I appreciate the trouble Mrs G has gone to, in preparing such a detailed schedule of 
contents, the policy only covers the cost of repair or replacement of contents damaged by the 
fire and smoke. The policy is also clear that the option of repairing or replacing the contents, 
can only be exercised by the NFU. 
I understand that Mrs G decided to dispose of all of her contents because she believed they 
were contaminated. However, as Ive already concluded the expert evidence provided by the 
NFU persuades me that many of the contents could have been (and in fact were) refurbished 
and repaired, I dont agree that the NFU are responsible to pay the total amount claimed by Mrs G. I also note that Mrs Gs claim is far in excess of the limit of indemnity provided under 
the policy of £44,731.00 for general contents. 
The adjusted BER schedule included all of the items included in the inventory prepared by the 
contractor, then alongside those items a column setting out the costs provided by Mrs G was 
added, and a column with revised costs where the loss adjuster was able to source a similar 
item for a lesser cost was also included. The loss adjuster totalled the BER contents based on 
either Mrs Gs cost or their revised cost and came to a total of £19,640.72, which after 
deducting the sums already paid to Mrs G, left a balance of £8,903.72 due to her.
Having reviewed the adjusted BER schedule, Im satisfied that the NFU has taken the steps I 
would expect them to take, to fairly and reasonably settle Mrs Gs claim for her contents. I 
would also add that the NFU paid approximately £18,000 for the removal, restoration, storage 
and return of contents to Mrs G, under this head of claim
Ill next address Mrs Gs claim for food she had to dispose of from her fridge and freezer.
In their email to us of 22 May 2020, the NFU confirmed that payment for food in the fridge 
freezer wasnt included in the contents settlement. Mrs G has estimated the value of the food 
that had to be disposed of in the fridge, freezer and kitchen to be £1,400. Shes provided 
three pages of lists which detail the contents of the freezer, fridge and kitchen that had to be 
disposed of, and she has suggested values for some of the items.
However, having carefully reviewed the policy terms and conditions, I can see that the cover 
for deterioration of contents of fridge or freezer is limited to deterioration caused by the failure 
of the fridge/freezer, which wasnt the case here. So, I wont be asking the NFU to make any 
additional payment to Mrs G in relation to the food that she disposed of following the fire.
Ive also mentioned the policy includes additional limits for two specific laptops. In an email to 
our investigator dated 22 May 2020, the NFU said no payment was made in respect of the 
specified Toshiba laptop as Mrs Gs son removed that from the property. However, they said 
payment was made in respect of the Dell laptop. Having reviewed the adjusted BER schedule 
I cant identify an entry for a Dell laptop. In response to this provisional decision I would ask 
that the NFU confirm whether they have received and paid out for a claim in relation to this 
laptop. If they havent, and Mrs G is still able to show the laptop was BER, and can provide a 
receipt for replacement of that laptop, then the NFU should consider her claim for that, under 
the policys terms and conditions (which includes a limit of indemnity of £1,167). 
Mrs G also asked the NFU to fund PAT testing of the electrical items that had been kept in 
storage. The NFU declined to do so on the basis that the items had been inspected before 
they went into storage at which time the technician didnt consider there was a requirement to 
carry out PAT testing. As I understand these items have now been disposed of, I dont think 
its necessary to make a finding on this element of Mrs Gs complaint. 
Mrs G also claimed for damage to her driveway and pond that she believes was caused by 
the fire, or contamination by the fire. The NFU explained that the definition of Buildings in the 
policy doesnt extend to include landscaping ponds, or livestock. They agreed that damage to 
contents in the garden and plants was covered up to a limit of £2,000, which they included in 
the adjusted BER settlement amount. The NFU also explained that the repair of damage to 
the driveway was included in the cash settlement agreed by Mrs Gs builder, for the buildings. 
Having carefully considered the available evidence in relation to the driveway and pond, Im 
not intending to require the NFU to do anything further to settle this element of Mrs Gs claim. 
Alternative Accommodation
Mrs G has made three separate complaints about the way the NFU has handled her claim 
regarding the provision of alternative accommodation during the period she was unable to 
reside at the property. Mrs G has claimed £70,279.00 for alternative accommodation which 
includes 371 nights hotel accommodation (£36,729.00), 371 days food allowance of £30 per 
person (£33,390.00), and dog kennelling for two weeks (£160).
Period of cover for hotel stays to 2 September 2016The NFU paid £34,425.40 for hotel costs to 2 September 2016 and £160 for two weeks 
kennels costs. Mrs G says it wasnt fair that the NFU only paid for their hotel accommodation 
until 2 September 2016. She explained that shed had to cover the costs of alternative 
accommodation from 2 September 2016 to 16 February 2017 when they were able to move 
into the rebuilt property.
The policy terms and conditions provide additional insurance, in relation to buildings cover, for 
the reasonable costs agreed by the NFU of similar accommodation for the insured, their 
family and their domestic pets. The policy provides cover for costs incurred until the home is 
fit to live in. The most they will pay is 25% of the insured rebuilding cost of the buildings or up 
to £75,000.00 whichever is greater. So, the first question I need to decide is whether the 
NFUs decision to cover the costs of the hotel stay for the period to 2 September 2016 was 
fair.
The NFU said that by covering the cost of accommodation to 2 September 2016, they had 
agreed to cover an additional three months accommodation costs which they considered 
would be reasonable to reflect the repair duration, if the revised building repair had been 
implemented. The NFU said repairs would likely have been completed to the property by July 
2016 if Mrs G had chosen to repair the property in accordance with the contractors 
quotations. 
However, I do need to bear in mind that in the fifth interim report the loss adjuster observed 
that due to delays in planning permission being granted, the scope and costs of the repairs 
were only finally agreed with Mrs Gs contractor and their surveyor on 20 July 2016. Allowing 
for 12 to 14 weeks for the repairs to be carried out after that date would result in a revised 
completion date for the repairs of 20 October 2016. 
I accept the NFUs argument that the planning permission was only required because Mrs G 
wished to rebuild the property, and had that not been required, the delay would likely not have 
arisen. However, on the other hand it seems to me that the NFU allowed Mrs G the additional 
time to make her decision about repairing or reinstating (after receiving the planning 
permission decision), and I note the funds werent paid for the building claim until November 
2016. So, I accept that Mrs Gs decision to rebuild the property did lead to a delay while the 
planning permission application was considered but I also think the NFU accepted some 
further delay may arise due to that and were accommodating of that. I think its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances for the NFU to pay Mrs Gs hotel costs for an additional 
24 days (being half of the period from 2 September to 20 October 2016) totalling £3,486. 
(Ive arrived at this figure by taking the total cost of the hotel accommodation £34,425.40, 
dividing it by 237 days, which gives an average daily rate of £145.25, then multiplying the 
daily rate by 24). 
Disturbance allowance
Mrs G has complained that the NFU only paid £10 per person, per day, for food allowance, 
which she said wouldnt even have paid for breakfast. 
However, the NFU explained that the contribution wasnt intended to meet the full living costs 
associated with living in a hotel. They also explained that the £10 contribution was agreed for 
the period of 237 days which was the time expected to repair the property. The NFU said that 
although theyd made every effort to locate suitable accommodation for Mrs G, she wasnt 
satisfied with any of the numerous options presented. Theyd sought to be generous in 
agreeing a £10 per day allowance which otherwise wouldnt have been required because 
Mrs G would have had the facilities to prepare food in suitable alternative accommodation.
The policy terms dont include any requirement for the NFU to pay a disturbance allowance to 
Mrs G. However, we generally consider it fair and reasonable for an insurer to cover any 
reasonable additional costs incurred by someone being out of their home. Had Mrs G and her 
family been in a property with cooking facilities, they wouldnt have incurred additional costs 
to what they would have always had at home. NFU has paid Mrs G £10 per day per adult, for the anticipated additional costs, incurred as a result of being without certain facilities. This 
amount is in line with our general approach.
For me to award a higher amount, I would need to be persuaded higher additional costs were 
incurred during the period in question; and incurred reasonably. I understand that Mrs G 
provided copies of menus to the NFU in support of her claim, but no receipts were provided. 
In summary, Ive not seen anything that persuades me the £10 daily allowance (£30 for three 
people) ought to be increased.
The NFU paid Mrs G a total of £7,110 disturbance allowance for the period from 9 January 
2016 to 2 September 2016 (£30 for three people, for 237 days). However, as Ive concluded it 
was fair and reasonable for the NFU to cover hotel costs for an additional 24 days, I think its 
fair and reasonable for the NFU to pay Mrs G disturbance allowance for the same period 
(which Ive calculated to be a further £720 (24 days x £30)).
Distress and inconvenience caused by the NFUs handling of the alternative accommodation 
part of the claim
Mrs G is unhappy that she had to live with a friend for four nights before being offered 
alternative accommodation. She says that even when they were provided with hotel 
accommodation, it didnt meet their needs because the adults didnt have permanent rooms 
or even separate rooms on some occasions.
The NFU said theyd agreed to meet the more expensive costs of a hotel rather than 
temporary long-term accommodation because Mrs G wasnt satisfied with any alternative 
accommodation offered to her. They understood that Mrs G had agreed a discounted rate 
with the hotel directly, and as part of the agreed discount rate she was required to wait for 
available rooms. 
In early February 2016 Mrs G said she requested rented accommodation that could 
accommodate three adults and two dogs in the local area as she needed to be within a mile 
or two of her mother, whom she cared for. She says the NFU made her feel as if she was an 
inconvenience.
Mrs Gs requirements also included needing a bungalow due to her health condition, and she 
asked to be close to the train station as she had to regularly take her son to the train. The 
NFU said that because Mrs Gs requirements were quite specific, and limited to a small 
geographical area, it wasnt easy to locate a rental for her. They had found one holiday let 
which seemed promising, but when Mrs G went to the property she found it to be unsuitable 
for a number of reasons and returned to the hotel. 
Mrs G told us that up to the beginning of March 2016, the hotel rooms were only booked for 
two weeks at a time, then they had to check out and wait for more rooms to be authorised. 
Due to the worry of whether a bed would be available to them, Mrs G says she started to 
provisionally book ahead three rooms as she felt she couldnt rely on the NFU to plan ahead 
for them.
Mrs G also told us that they had to move rooms every few days and on some days were only 
told in the morning that they had to move to accommodate full paying guests. Her son had to 
go to London during the week, so she had to keep his belongings in carrier bags in order to 
be able to grab them and go. As a result, they all felt stressed and couldnt make a home in 
their hotel room. Mrs G also told us that her daughter was only allocated a room in the 
evening if a room was available, otherwise they had to share a room, which added friction 
between them because they didnt have their own space to relax in and were forever under 
each others feet. Mrs G recalls one or two occasions they all slept in a disabled room 
complete with one single bed and a couple of camp beds alongside the dogs beds because 
the hotel was overbooked. She told us that they were living out of eight Sainsburys bags 
which was an easy method of transportation with the dog beds as they didnt know when they 
would be moved. She said some of the rooms they slept in were damp and infested with ants. 
She also said they were surviving on one meal a day at their own expense.Our investigator felt the insurer ought to have considered Mrs Gs circumstances and booked 
hotel rooms in advance. She felt that having to move rooms frequently and carry their 
belongings in plastic bags for the seven months was unacceptable and would have caused 
them significant distress. She felt the NFU could have come to a better arrangement or paid 
for the rooms in advance to reduce the inconvenience caused to Mrs G and her family. Our 
investigator awarded compensation to Mrs G for the distress and inconvenience shed 
suffered. The NFU agreed to pay the compensation recommended by our investigator.
So, the parties agree some compensation ought to be paid for this distress and 
inconvenience. What remains for me to decide is whether the amount of compensation 
recommended by our investigator is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Having considered all of the available evidence, I can see that this was a very difficult time for 
Mrs G and her family. I can also see that the NFU went to some lengths to try and locate a 
rental property that suited Mrs Gs needs, but her specific requirements made this quite 
challenging. Overall, I think it was a reasonable compromise for the NFU to pay for Mrs G and 
her family to be accommodated by the hotel. However, I do agree with our investigator that 
the arrangements could have been less disruptive for Mrs G and her family. If the NFU had 
been able to find them permanent rooms, they could have felt more settled during the seven-
month period. Taking everything into consideration, Im currently of the view that the 
compensation recommended by our investigator is fair in the circumstances, in respect of 
compensating Mrs G for the distress and inconvenience shes suffered as a result of the way 
the NFU handled this part of her claim.
Compensation for distress and inconvenience
Mrs G has made the following additional complaints about the way the NFU has handled her 
complaint. She says:
The loss adjuster should have informed the council and utility companies of the fire so 
that their charges would cease  instead she had to do this;
The NFU didnt communicate clearly with her, or respond to her requests for 
information, which meant she had to pay for a loss assessor and solicitors to help her 
with the claim;
The NFU hasnt provided copies of the invoices relevant to her contents claim;
Shes suffered unacceptable delays in the way her claim has been progressed, and in 
the re-imbursement of monies to her by the NFU;
Her health and the health of her son and daughter has suffered as a result of the way 
the NFU handled her claim, and her dogs passed away in 2018; and
The NFU agreed to pay £1,000 for her sons counselling sessions but hasnt done so.
Ive briefly considered each of these concerns under the headings below.
Council tax and utility bills
Mrs G believes the loss adjuster should have informed the council and utility companies of the 
fire and arrange for those bills to be stopped. She said that the loss adjuster didnt respond to 
her request for a letter confirming the fire had occurred, so she had to continue paying council 
tax and paying for utilities after they were no longer residing at the property. Mrs G also told 
us that the evaluation officer at the council condemned the property on 22 August 2016, so 
she was able to get a full refund back on her council tax. But she felt the loss adjuster should 
have sorted out this issue which took her months to resolve.
The NFU confirmed that their loss adjuster wasnt able to offer assistance to Mrs G in this way 
because the contract for the provision of utilities is a matter between Mrs G and her providers, 
so only Mrs G could cancel the utilities. The same is the case with council tax. They said 
theyd advised Mrs G that she needed to take steps to inform the utility providers that the property was uninhabitable as a result of the incident and to make arrangements to pause 
utility bills and the provision of services.
I agree that it was Mrs Gs responsibility to liaise with her utility companies and the council 
and Im satisfied that the NFU acted reasonably in making Mrs G aware of this. So, I wont be 
making any award for compensation in relation to this element of Mrs Gs complaint. 
Communication concerns
Mrs G has complained that the NFU didnt communicate clearly with her, or respond to her 
requests for information, which meant she had to pay for a loss assessor and solicitors to help 
her with the claim. She also told us that the NFUs inadequate communication with her 
throughout its handling of the claim has caused her distress and inconvenience. She says 
that she received her first cheque from the NFU of £16,684.00 on 1 September 2016, but 
there wasnt any explanation of what the amount covered. She feels that communications 
from her solicitor and loss assessor directed to the NFU were largely ignored. 
In their final response letter of 7 June 2019, the NFU agreed that their loss adjuster could 
have responded to Mrs Gs queries more efficiently, however, they concluded that hadnt had 
any detriment on the outcome of Mrs Gs claim. They also concluded that their 
representatives had adequately addressed all of the queries raised by her representative and 
offered to provide Mrs G with copies of the correspondence between the representatives to 
show that all queries had been addressed and there was nothing that remained outstanding. 
Having reviewed the businesses case file I can see that Mrs G received payments from the 
NFU following recommendations made by their loss adjuster in August 2016, November 2016 
and February 2019. Mrs G or her representative also received communications from the NFU, 
via their agents around those dates, on 17 August 2016, 18 November 2016, and 13 February 
2019. In addition, letters or emails were sent to Mrs G or her representatives by the NFU on 
3 March 2017, 15 May 2017, 16 February 2018, 3 May 2018, 29 January 2019 and 27 
March 2019, 17 April 2019. The interim payment reports also record that a number of on-site 
meetings took place with Mrs G, throughout the claim period. I accept that the NFU could 
have communicated with Mrs G more regularly, however, it seems to me that whenever she, 
or her representative contacted the NFU, overall they were provided with a response, 
although not always within a reasonable period of time.
I also note that on reviewing the letter from NFUs loss adjuster to Mrs G on 17 August 2016, 
an update was given on Mrs Gs claim, and an explanation of the interim payment theyd 
requested to be made to her was also given. So, I cant agree that monies were paid to Mrs G 
without explanation, although I accept the explanations could have been clearer. 
Our investigator felt that Mrs G should be compensated for the NFUs communication failings, 
which they accepted, in response to the view. And I agree that some compensation should be 
paid. In their final response letter, the NFU said the loss adjuster could have responded to 
Mrs Gs queries more efficiently but no compensation was offered on the basis it hadnt had a 
detrimental impact on the handling of her claim. While that may be the case, what Im 
considering here is the impact of the loss assessors inefficient communication on Mrs G. I 
agree with our investigator that this did cause Mrs G some distress and inconvenience. Im 
currently of the view that that £1,500 compensation recommended by our investigator for the 
distress and inconvenience suffered by Mrs G as a result of the way her alterative 
accommodation was handled, and the way the NFU communicated with her during the claim, 
is fair in the circumstances. 
Provision of copies of invoices
Mrs G has complained that the NFU hasnt provided her with copies of any invoices from their 
contractors in relation to the storage and repair of the contents. 
The NFUs representatives wrote to Mrs Gs representative in April 2019 and said that the 
invoices are addressed to the NFU and paid directly by the NFU. They didnt consider it necessary for Mrs G to have a copy of the invoices and they dont contain any substantive 
information relevant to the claim.
Having considered this element of Mrs Gs complaint, I dont think that the NFU have acted 
unreasonably in declining to provide copies of the invoices relating to the repair and storage 
of her contents. The NFU have met their liability under the policy terms and conditions to 
repair and store the contents, so I dont think they need to provide copies of the invoices to 
Mrs G. 
Delays
Mrs G believes that shes suffered unacceptable delays in the way her claim has been 
progressed, and in the timing of the re-imbursement of monies to her by the NFU. She said 
that she delivered receipts to the loss adjuster at the end of every month as requested, but by 
late June 2016 hadnt been reimbursed for any costs shed incurred.
In their response to Mrs Gs earlier complaint, in April 2017, the NFU acknowledged there had 
been a delay in settling the payment of Mrs Gs building repair costs. They said the payment 
was originally offered on 20 July 2016 and paid into her account on 18 November 2016. At 
that time the NFU sent Mrs G a cheque for the sum of £2,254.95, representing 8% interest on 
the building repair costs (£75,600) for the period from 20 July 2016 to 18 November 2016, 
together with £250 compensation for not responding to her complaint within eight weeks of 
receiving it.
As the NFU have already compensated Mrs G in relation to delays in paying the agreed 
building repair costs to her, I wont be asking them to do anything further in relation to this part 
of her complaint.
Ive also considered the delays in making payment to Mrs G for her contents. However, Im 
not currently intending to award any compensation in relation to this. The NFU paid for the 
storage of Mrs Gs contents up until February 2019, while she decided whether or not she 
would accept the contents back. Following receipt of Mrs Gs detailed list of contents that she 
was claiming for, after the NFU had made a payment to her for the contents that were BER, 
they undertook a loss adjustment exercise taking account of the inventory lists prepared by 
their contractor and Mrs Gs detailed list of contents and paid her a further £8,903.72. So, I 
think the NFU have treated Mrs G fairly and reasonably in relation to her contents claim.
Ive addressed the payment of alternative accommodation costs and disturbance allowance in 
some detail, earlier in this decision, so I wont repeat what Ive said here. By November 2016 
Mrs G had been reimbursed for all of the hotel bills that shed paid. I understand that she 
would have liked to have been reimbursed sooner, however, I havent been provided with any 
evidence to show that being reimbursed at this time caused her any particular financial 
difficulty, so I dont think the NFU needs to pay compensation for that inconvenience. 
Impact on familys health (including her dogs)
Mrs G has told us that her health and the health of her son and daughter has suffered as a 
result of the way the NFU has handled her claim. With regard to her own health, she told us 
that around April 2016 her consultant noted her health was deteriorating rapidly with the 
consequences of the house fire. Her treatment was then put on hold due to the stress of the 
ongoing claim. Mrs G also told us that her son, who was studying a PhD, was put on long 
term sick leave for 15 months due to a nervous breakdown, contributed to by the stress of the 
fire; and he was undergoing counselling. She said the whole process has been emotionally 
traumatic for them, and three years later theyre still dealing with the effects of it.
Im sorry to hear of the impact the fire and dealing with the subsequent claim has had on 
Mrs G and her family. Unfortunately, it is often the case that dealing with circumstances such 
as these can be very stressful. However, having carefully considered all of the available 
evidence, I dont think that the NFUs actions have added to the stress of dealing with a claim for fire damage, to the extent that it would have impacted on their health. So, I wont be 
awarding any additional compensation in relation to this element of Mrs Gs complaint. 
I was also sorry to hear that Mrs G sadly lost her two dogs to cancer in the spring of 2018. 
However, as our investigator concluded, without any evidence to link the dogs deaths to 
actual contamination of the property, Im unable to award any compensation in relation to this 
sad loss. 
Counselling sessions
Finally, Mrs G says the NFU agreed to pay £1,000 for her sons counselling sessions but 
havent done so. When our investigator asked the NFU about this they said that they hadnt 
received any evidence from Mrs G that counselling had been sought. If she could provide that 
information they said theyd consider the claim. I think this is reasonable and wont be asking 
the NFU to do anything further in relation to Mrs Gs complaint about the counselling sessions 
not being reimbursed. 
Treating Mrs G fairly
The NFU has submitted that at every stage of the claim they considered Mrs Gs additional 
requests and tried to accommodate those. They provided the following examples:
They agreed that Mrs G could appoint her own contractor;
They agreed to Mrs Gs request for a cash settlement in respect of the buildings claim 
(although she subsequently changed her mind);
They instructed forensic experts to thoroughly investigate Mrs Gs concerns in respect 
of toxic contamination of the building and contents;
Mrs Gs contents claim was considered and re-assessed to ensure the contents 
settlement was correct; and
It was agreed that Mrs G would be able to reside in a hotel for the duration of the 
alternative accommodation period, rather than the usually offered rented 
accommodation. The NFU said they made that allowance due to Mrs Gs health 
issues.
Ive also taken these points into account in making my decision about how Mrs G should be 
compensated for the distress and inconvenience shes suffered as a result of the way the 
NFU has handled her claim.
Taking everything into account, Im currently of the view that the NFU should pay Mrs G 
£1,500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes suffered as a result of the way 
its handled some elements of her claim, as Ive detailed above. 
I concluded that I was intending to partially uphold the complaint and require the NFU to pay 
a further sum of £3,486 in reimbursement of an additional 24 days of hotel costs, and a 
further £720 for additional disturbance allowance covering the same 24 days, together with 
£1,500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mrs G has suffered as a result of 
the way theyd handled the claim.
Before continuing with this final decision, there is one correction to an error in the provisional 
decision that I would make. On page 9 of the provisional decision, I referred to the fifth 
interim report, where the revised completion date for repairs of 20 October 2016 was 
suggested. That was in fact the sixth interim report.
In response to the provisional decision, the NFU said they believed my proposed decision to 
award Mrs G a further 24 days of hotel costs and disturbance allowance was unfair to them. 
They felt they were generous in agreeing to pay the disturbance allowance and hotel costs 
to 2 September 2016. They repeated that Mrs G wouldnt accept any other form of suitable alternative accommodation offered to her, and so to be accommodating they agreed to fund 
hotel-based accommodation. The NFU also said they remained of the view that the 32-week 
time period theyd allowed for the repair to be scoped and completed was entirely 
reasonable in the circumstances and went beyond usual timescales in a case such as this. 
The NFU also maintained that the delays in relation to the scope of work being agreed were 
caused by Mrs G refusing to agree to the works proposed, and all of the delays caused by 
Mrs G were unnecessary and without foundation, resulting in delays of between three to four 
months. They concluded that it wasnt fair or reasonable for me to require them to make 
additional payments because of delays caused by Mrs G, and suggested that could lead to a 
scenario whereby an insured party could benefit from unnecessarily delaying matters, which 
is unfair to insurers.
The NFU agreed that if evidence of counselling costs was provided to show those costs 
were incurred, the payment would be met. They also agreed to paying £1,500 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs G. 
Lastly, the NFU recalled that payment was made for the Dell laptop. However, they said if 
evidence that payment hadnt already been made; evidence that the laptop was beyond 
economic repair; and evidence of the replacement costs was provided, theyd pay the claim.
Mrs G provided detailed submissions in response to the provisional decision, together with 
127 pages of annotated photographs of her contents, a letter from the piano restorer and a 
further copy of documents which Ive already seen. 
Mrs G also wasnt happy with the 24 additional days hotel costs I said I was intending to 
award. She said that the house clearing wasnt completed until August 2016, due to delays 
by the loss adjuster in authorising the removal of the contents, so no work could have been 
done before August 2016. She therefore believes that accommodation costs should be 
covered for six months from when the works began at the beginning of September 2016. 
Mrs G maintains that she was told by the local office of the NFU in Ipswich that the two 
policy limits would be joined together to cover the extra costs of the contents. 
Mrs Gs response also repeated submissions which Ive already considered, in relation to the 
contents claim, the issue of contamination of the building and contents, the inadequacy of 
the disturbance allowance, the mishandling of her claim by the loss adjuster, and the stress 
and upset thats caused her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I havent been persuaded to come to a different decision on this complaint. I 
will explain why.
I appreciate the NFU feels the delays which led to Mrs G having to reside in alternative 
accommodation for an extended period, were solely caused by Mrs G. And while I agree that 
Mrs Gs actions have contributed to delays in resolving this claim, the case file also includes 
examples of delays caused by the NFU or their agents. For example, in the final response 
letter dated April 2017, the NFU apologised for the four-month delay in paying the cash 
settlement for the building repairs to Mrs G, and paid her interest to cover the delay period. I 
also note, from the report provided by the NFUs contractors, that it took them until at least 
April 26th to remove the contents from the property. So, I dont accept that the delays were solely down to Mrs Gs action or inaction. 
The second interim report dated 19 April 2016, completed by the loss assessor said that 
Mrs G told them a decision on whether to request a cash settlement would be made within 
the next few weeks, once she had a decision on planning. Then, the fourth interim report 
dated 21 October 2016, recorded that on 26 August 2016, the cash settlement sum was 
agreed, and the proposal was sent to Mrs Gs solicitors on 2 September 2016.
The NFU accommodated Mrs Gs request for sufficient time to allow for a planning decision 
to be given, before she elected to have the works done or agree a cash settlement. So, as I 
explained in my provisional decision, I think its fair and reasonable for alternative 
accommodation costs and disturbance allowance be paid to Mrs G for the additional 
24 days. 
Ill now address the further submissions made by Mrs G.
I explained in detail, in my provisional decision, why I was more persuaded by the NFUs 
expert report on contamination, than the report produced by Mrs Gs son. In coming to that 
view, I had already considered the letter Mrs G has again provided from a Mr B which said 
the expert report was flawed. 
The NFUs expert said there was no evidence to suggest any meaningful contamination of 
the main structure. He said he would expect typical remediation practices to have removed 
smoke contaminants down to background levels, (i.e. that wouldnt affect human health). On 
that basis I provisionally concluded that more likely than not, the building wasnt sufficiently 
contaminated by the fire so as to justify the demolition and rebuild of the property, and there 
was therefore no need for all of the contents in the house and garden to be disposed of. 
Having considered all of the available evidence, I havent been persuaded to change my 
conclusion on that issue. 
I also explained in the provisional decision, why I didnt think that the NFU needed to cover 
the cost of PAT testing of Mrs Gs electrical appliances. Again, having considered the new 
evidence, I remain of that view. 
Ive given my reasons for why I think £10 per person per day is reasonable, in relation to the 
disturbance allowance paid by the NFU, in the provisional decision. Nothing Mrs G has now 
added has led me to a different conclusion on that matter either. 
Ive considered the new points made by Mrs G in relation to the period for which she 
believes alternative accommodation costs ought to be paid. Mrs G has highlighted that some 
delays were caused by the time it took the NFUs contractors to remove the contents from 
the property. There is a disagreement here, about when the removal of the contents was 
finally completed. However, as Ive already mentioned, in responding to the NFUs 
comments on this point, I accept there were some delays caused by the NFUs agents. But 
there were also a number of delays caused by Mrs G or her representative, including in 
responding to the NFUs cash settlement offer, and delays in relation to obtaining planning 
permission, which wasnt required for the repair of the property. So, for the reasons given in 
my provisional decision, I remain of the view that its fair and reasonable for the NFU to pay 
Mrs G an additional 24 days hotel costs and disturbance allowance. 
Mrs G has also mentioned again, her recollection that the NFUs Ipswich Branch told her that 
the limits of the contents cover, and the buildings cover could be combined so that an 
increased claim could be paid in relation to the contents. The NFUs case file says that when 
asked, the Ipswich branch said they hadnt given this information to Mrs G. Theres 
insufficient evidence available for me to be persuaded its more likely than not, that Mrs G was given this information. However, Ive already said that the NFUs loss adjuster took the 
steps to validate Mrs Gs contents claim, that wed expect them to take, and the total cash 
settlement for the contents was within the limit of indemnity set out in the policy. So, whether 
or not the two limits could be combined (which would be highly irregular) doesnt have an 
impact on the outcome of her claim.
Lastly, Mrs G has provided new evidence in the form of 127 pages of photographs of the 
contents, with annotations alongside, describing damage to the contents, such as mould, 
soot, cracked boxes, smoke and water damage. Mrs G has also said that in discussions with 
the NFUs contractor she was told that all books, paintings, CDs VHS, DVDs, puzzles and 
electrical goods would cost more to restore than the value of the items. She also disputes 
whether all of the contents were cleaned and restored as when she went to look at the items 
in storage, some of the items were still wrapped in the same protected boxes and covers 
that shed wrapped them in. 
I do understand Mrs Gs frustration at the state of the contents returned from storage. 
However, what I need to decide is whether the NFU have fairly discharged their liability 
under the policy terms and conditions to restore, repair or replace Mrs Gs contents that 
were damaged by the fire. 
Ive already concluded that the process the NFU followed in establishing the cash settlement 
amount for the contents was fair, and its during that process that I would have expected 
Mrs G to engage with the NFU in relation to concerns about the state of her contents 
affected by the fire. At the latest, I would have expected Mrs G to raise any concerns about 
the restoration and repair of her contents within a reasonable period after moving into the 
rebuilt property in early 2017.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that the NFUs treated Mrs G fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the policy terms and conditions, in loss adjusting the extensive 
list of contents she claimed for. And, bearing in mind that the NFU have covered 
approximately three years storage costs for all of Mrs Gs contents, including those not 
connected with the fire or covered by the policy, its my view that the NFU have done enough 
to settle Mrs Gs contents claim.
For the reasons given in this decision and my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint in part.
Putting things right
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require The National Farmers 
Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited to:
Reimburse Mrs G a further £3,486 for hotel fees (for an additional 24 days) plus 
interest* from 18 November 2016 until settlement is made;
Pay Mrs G additional disturbance allowance of £720 (for an additional 24 days) plus 
interest* from 18 November 2016 until settlement is made;
Consider a claim from Mrs G for the Dell laptop in accordance with the policy terms 
and conditions (if evidence cant be provided to show a claim for this item has already 
been settled); and
Pay Mrs G £1,500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes suffered 
as a result of the way theyve handled her claim.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to the dates stated. If the 
National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mrs G, it should tell them how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mrs G a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require The National Farmers 
Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited to pay the awards detailed above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman