DRN-3225528
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Santander UK Plc would not allow him to port his mortgage and 
provided him with misleading information about this.
What happened
In July 2015, after receiving advice from a third-party, Mr P took out a mortgage with 
Santander. He borrowed approximately £196,000 over a term of 25 years on an interest only 
basis.
In August 2020, Mr P took a new fixed interest rate product on his mortgage. Through some 
lump sum overpayments hed made to his account, the outstanding capital balance had 
reduced to just under £140,000 at that time.
His new interest rate was fixed until November 2025. And if the mortgage was repaid before 
that time, an early repayment charge (ERC) would be payable. 
In March 2021, Mr P contacted Santander about porting his mortgage. He told Santander 
hed had an offer accepted on a new property and agreed to sell his existing property. Mr P 
said he wanted to reduce his outstanding balance and convert his mortgage to a capital and 
repayment basis when porting. And he made Santander aware that he was not currently 
working  he was self-employed and had been impacted by the pandemic  and was in 
receipt of monthly government backed job retention grants.
The first person that Mr P spoke to indicated that they thought that Santander could consider 
the request to port the mortgage, subject to underwriting. So, they arranged an appointment 
with a mortgage adviser.
Mr P then spoke to an adviser the following week. But they said that Santander would be 
unable to consider Mr Ps application, as Mr P had no regular income from his business and 
its lending policy was that it would not accept job retention grants as income.
Mr P complained to Santander that he had been misled by the person hed originally spoken 
to. And he was unhappy that it would not port his mortgage. He was also unhappy at 
potentially having to pay an ERC and felt Santander should waive this, because of its error.
Santander accepted that the person Mr P had initially spoken to provided incorrect 
information and shouldve been aware based on what Mr P had told them that the 
application could not be progressed as it was outside of Santanders lending criteria. And it 
offered £150 for the upset caused by this which it said it would pay to Mr Ps bank account. 
However, Santander said it hadnt made an error when subsequently saying it couldnt 
proceed with the application. And it said it would not waive the ERC if Mr P repaid his 
mortgage early  as its lending decision was not wrong.
Mr P asked our service to consider his complaint. He said that he couldnt afford to pay the 
ERC and this was impacting his plans. He said he had been caused significant distress and 
anxiety by Santander providing this incorrect information which had impacted his mental 
health. And he felt, as Santander had acknowledged it was at fault, it should waive the ERC.
I understand that Mr Ps Santander mortgage was subsequently repaid in full in June 2021 
and that an ERC was charged at the time.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint. She acknowledged that Mr P had initially 
been incorrectly led to believe his application could be considered. But she felt the £150 
Santander had paid for the upset caused by this was fair. She didnt think Santander had 
acted incorrectly when declining to proceed. And, as the ERC had been applied correctly, 
she didnt think Santander needed to refund this.
Mr P did not agree with our Investigators opinion. He said Santander had provided incorrect 
information which had caused significant distress. He didnt think the offer made was fair as 
it didnt address the costs hed incurred. And he also didnt feel it addressed the distress he 
incurred or the impact this had on his mental health. 
As Mr P did not agree with our Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage offer issued to Mr P in 2020, when he selected a new interest rate deal, 
explained that his mortgage could be ported but he would need to meet Santanders lending 
and affordability criteria at the time a request to port was made.
Santander has provided a copy of its lending criteria, specifically around what it considers to 
be acceptable sources of income and I can see that, based on the information provided to it, 
Mr P did not meet these criteria at the time he applied. And based on what Mr P was looking 
to do when he contacted Santander, including converting the mortgage to a capital 
repayment basis, I dont think it has made an error by applying these criteria to his 
application. So, I dont think the information provided to Mr P by the mortgage adviser  that 
Santander could not consider his application as it fell outside of its lending criteria  was 
wrong. 
Ive thought about whether Santander ought to have discussed other options with Mr P, 
including the possibility of porting with the borrowing remaining on an interest only basis. 
Santander has said, it didnt begin providing advice because it was clear what Mr P wanted 
was outside of its criteria. And I understand that. But I think, if the mortgage couldve 
potentially been ported on another basis, it wouldve been good practice to at least discuss 
that.
That being said though, based on the information Ive seen, I dont think a port on an interest 
only basis wouldve been agreed either. Santander would still have been required to check 
that the mortgage was appropriate  including Mr Ps plans for repaying the borrowing at the 
end of the term, in line with requirements set by the regulator. And with this in mind I still 
think this wouldve likely fallen outside of Santanders lending criteria, based on the 
information available. Because of this, and as porting on an interest only basis was 
significantly different to Mr Ps stated aims, I dont think Santander was wrong not to discuss 
this further in the circumstances.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think Santander has made an error by declining to take 
the application to port the mortgage further.Santander did initially give Mr P incorrect information. Which it accepts. In the initial 
conversations Mr P had with Santander, the members of staff he spoke to indicated that the 
application could be considered. Which later was confirmed not to be the case. 
If this error had not happened, Mr P wouldve been informed on 15 March 2021 that his 
application was outside of Santanders lending criteria. Instead he was told this on 26 March 
2021. But the application would still have been declined. He just wouldnt have suffered the 
distress of finding this out slightly later, having had his expectations raised that porting might 
be possible.
Ive thought about what the appropriate way to address this error is.
I dont think I can reasonably say that Santander shouldve ported the mortgage, because of 
the error it made. We wouldnt expect it to do something it otherwise wouldnt have, just 
because of information given in error. And anyway, from the information Ive seen, while 
Santander incorrectly indicated the application could be considered, I dont think it gave any 
guarantee that the porting would be agreed, after it was considered.
Mr P wants Santander to refund the ERC he paid in June 2021. But I dont think itd be fair to 
require Santander to do this either.
The mortgage agreement Mr P entered into in 2020 was clear that if the balance was repaid 
in full before the end of the fixed interest rate deal, an ERC would be payable. And 
Santander made it clear in its response to Mr Ps complaint, before the mortgage was 
repaid, that an ERC would be applicable. 
Mr P has said these comments in the response to the complaint were not appropriate and 
that he felt Santander was bullying him to take a particular course of action. But I dont think 
what Santander said was unreasonable. And I think it was right for it to explain that an ERC 
would still be payable, so that Mr P could make an informed decision.
Im satisfied that Mr P was aware that an ERC would be charged if he redeemed his 
mortgage, before he did so. And the ERC has been applied in line with the terms of the 
mortgage. So, given that I dont think Santander was wrong to decline the mortgage 
application, I cant reasonably require Santander to refund the ERC.
Mr P says he thinks it would be appropriate for this fee to be refunded because of the 
distress this has caused him. But I dont think that would be fair or proportionate.
Ive taken into account Mr Ps comments about the impact this has had on him. And I accept 
it wouldve been upsetting to be told an application could proceed only to later find out it was 
outside of Santanders lending criteria. But all mortgage applications can be declined at any 
stage until lending is agreed. And while this disappointment couldve been avoided, 
Santander did make Mr P aware that it couldnt proceed within two weeks of the incorrect 
information having been provided.
Mr P has said he was caused further worry and anxiety while the complaint was ongoing, 
wondering if Santander would proceed with the application. But while I appreciate this 
mightve been what he was initially hoping for in resolution to his complaint, I think 
Santander had been clear prior to this that the application was outside of its lending criteria.
Taking everything into account, while I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr P, I 
think the £150 Santander has offered to address the upset caused by its error, which I 
understand it has already paid, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I dont intend 
to require it to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman