DRN-4090600
The complaint
Mr O complains that Lowell Portfolio I Ltd is unfairly pursuing him for an outstanding debt. 
What happened
Lowell purchased a credit card debt in Mr Os name from a business Ill call V in September 
2020 and sent him a Notice of Assignment to confirm the new arrangements. Mr O 
contacted Lowell and initially offered payments of 50p a month. In July 2021 Lowell says Mr 
O notified it he was homeless and collections activity was temporarily placed on hold. 
Further contact from Mr O led to additional holds being placed on the account by Lowell. 
Last year, Mr O complained to Lowell and it issued a final response on 6 October 2022. 
Lowell said the credit card debt remained outstanding and that it had been sold by V after it 
was closed at default. 
Mr O referred his complaint to this service and raised concerns that the debt had already 
been repaid with V. Mr O also said hed been the victim of identity fraud and that the debt 
shouldve been written off as a result. The complaint was passed to an investigator who 
contacted V for further information. V confirmed that Mr O had held a credit card that had 
been closed at default with an outstanding balance of £610. And V confirmed the balance 
was sold to Lowell at which point its entry on Mr Os credit file was marked as satisfied. But 
V explained the credit card balance remained outstanding and had been sold to Lowell to 
collect. 
Our investigator thought Lowell had dealt with Mr Os complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take 
any further action. Mr O asked to appeal and forwarded a large amount of information to 
support his view that hed been the victim of fraud in the past and that Lowells account 
should be written off. As Mr O asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
In response to the investigator, Mr O has sent us lots of documents and information 
concerning problems hes experienced over the years. I understand why Mr O has provided 
this information. But we are an informal dispute resolution service and can only investigate a 
complaint about a particular business actions. So in this decision Im only able to look at 
how Lowell has treated Mr O and whether its reasonably contacted him to request 
repayment of the outstanding balance. 
Lowell says it purchased a defaulted credit card debt from V at the end of September 2020. 
The original investigator contacted V directly and it confirmed a credit card in Mr Os name 
had been opened in October 2017 with payments being made until 2019. V also confirmed 
the account was closed at default with a balance of £610.01 and that it had marked the debt 
as satisfied when it was sold to Lowell. V confirmed Lowell then took responsibility for 
reporting the outstanding balance. 
Mr O has forwarded a screenshot of his credit file that shows Vs account is noted as 
satisfied. But that reflects the sale of the debt to Lowell, in line with what V told the 
investigator when it responded to their enquiries. From Vs perspective, the account balance 
was satisfied when the debt was sold but not because payments were made in line with the 
credit agreement. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr O but Im satisfied that Lowell is contacting him regarding an 
outstanding credit card debt in his name. I havent seen anything that shows Lowell has 
been notified the debt was written off by the original lender or that it agreed to do so directly. 
Mr Os raised concerns over being the victim of fraud. But the account was opened with the 
original lender then sold to Lowell after the credit agreement was terminated. If Mr O has 
concerns that the account came about due to identity fraud, he has the option of referring a 
complaint to V. But Im satisfied Lowell has provided evidence that fairly links Mr O to the 
outstanding balance. I havent been persuaded that its treated Mr O unfairly by contacting 
him for repayment. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr O as I can see how strongly he feels in this matter. But Ive 
reviewed everything Mr O has said and sent us along with Lowells file submission. Having 
done so, I havent been persuaded that Lowells made a mistake or acted unfairly when 
contacting Mr O about the outstanding debt. As Im satisfied Lowell has dealt with Mr Os 
complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Os complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 
23 June 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman