DRN-1972688
The complaint
Mr P says Canada Square Operations Limited (Trading at the time of sale as Egg) mis-
sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in May 2004. The policy was 
added to Mr Ps credit card account when he applied for the card by completing an 
application online.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Egg disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint because:
The information Egg gave Mr P about the cost and benefit wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. I say this because although Egg provided information on how 
much the policy cost, it didnt provide enough information on when Mr P would 
need to keep paying the premiums during a claim, which would reduce the real 
value of the policy benefit below the level that Egg says it made clear on its 
website.
I think this would have mattered to Mr P as he doesnt appear to have had a strong 
need for the policy, given he says he had other ways to meet the credit card 
repayments for a while without the policy. Mr P says he had at least 6 months full 
sickness cover at work. He also says he had savings of at least 6 months at the 
time of sale. So, I dont think he would still have wanted to take out the policy if he 
had better understood its cost and limited benefit to him.
I think Mr P has lost out as a result of Egg's failings in this case, because I dont think 
he would have taken out the policy if hed been properly informed.
Ive taken into account Eggs comments, but they dont change my conclusion. Egg said 
that Mr Ps recollection of his provisions at the time had not been consistent and so they 
asked to see evidence of what he says he had at the time. But I can see that this isnt the 
case. Mr P has been consistent from the outset of the complaint and what he has said is 
plausible. I dont think it is reasonable to ask Mr P to provide supporting evidence because 
of this and also because the sale took place many years ago. So, it follows that I uphold 
Mr Ps complaint and its now time for Egg to put things right.
Putting things right
Mr P should be put back in the position he would have been in now if he had taken out the 
credit card without the PPI policy.
A. Canada Square should find out how much Mr P would have owed when he closed 
him credit card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
Canada Square should then refund the difference between what Mr P owed when he 
closed his account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr P made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Canada Square can take off 
what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.Canada Square should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr P 
would have owed when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets 
the refund. The interest rate should 8% a year.
C. If, when Canada Square works out what Mr P would have owed each month 
without PPI, Mr P paid more than enough to clear his balance Canada Square 
should also pay simple interest on the extra Mr P paid. And it should carry on 
paying interest until the point when Mr P wouldve owed Canada Square 
something on his credit card.
The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
D. Canada Square should tell Mr P what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr P to take off tax from this interest. Canada 
Square must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint.
I require Canada Square Operations Limited to pay Mr P compensation in accordance with
the calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman