DRN-4300956
The complaint
Mr F complains about the price quoted by Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) to renew his 
car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr R says he received a renewal invite  which he says he was happy with. A third party 
then reversed into Mr Rs car while it was parked so he reported this to Ageas for information 
only. Mr R says he then received a revised renewal quoting a higher price. Mr R says he 
questioned this, but Ageas werent able to explain the price increase. Mr R says he wasnt in 
his car at the time, so it wasnt his fault, and he also didnt make a claim on his policy. Mr R 
felt this was unfair, so he complained. 
Ageas responded and explained, after Mr R informed them he didnt wish to claim, they 
closed the claim as an information only non-fault accident. They said the claim was added to 
Mr Rs renewal information and this led to a price increase. Ageas said, although they 
understand the incident wasnt Mr Rs fault, they do still apply a rating factor to non-fault 
claims. They explained this is due to the increased risk of a driver being involved in another 
claim. Ageas explained the correct rating factors had been applied and the price had been 
calculated correctly.    
Our investigator looked into things for Mr R. She thought Ageas hadnt treated Mr R unfairly 
in relation to the pricing. Mr R disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr R will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
I can see Mr R received a renewal invite quoting a price of £284.84. Then, following Mr Rs 
report of an incident, a revised quote was issued for £313.85. This was £29.01 more than 
the original quote so, given Mr R says he wasnt at fault for the incident and also didnt make 
a claim, I understand why hes concerned about the price increase. 
I think its important to mention here, its for a business to decide what risks theyre prepared 
to cover and how much weight to attach to those risks - different insurers will apply different 
factors. Thats not to say an insurer offering a higher premium has made an error compared 
to an insurer offering a cheaper premium  but rather, it reflects the different approach 
theyve decided to take to risk. 
 
Ageas have provided me with confidential business sensitive information to explain how     
Mr Rs price increase was calculated. Im afraid I cant share this with him because its 
commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. And, Im satisfied the price he has been 
charged has been calculated correctly and fairly and Ive seen no evidence that other Ageas 
customers in Mr Rs position will have been charged a lower premium. 
I can see Ageas have recorded the claim correctly. The information shows theyve recorded 
Mr Rs report as an information only non-fault claim. Ageas have provided evidence which 
shows this type of claim is subject to a rating factor  and how this rating changed after      
Mr Rs claim was closed. So, Im satisfied Ageas havent made a mistake in calculating the 
price increase, or otherwise treated Mr R unfairly. 
I acknowledge Mr Rs concern that he wasnt in his car when the accident occurred, and he 
questions how he can be more of a risk to Ageas when the incident wasnt his fault. I do 
acknowledge Mr Rs point, but, as mentioned above, its for an insurer to decide what risks 
theyre prepared to accept and what factors they feel present a risk. The way in which the 
rates are calculated are the same for all customers, so Ageas arent treating Mr R differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman