DRN-3379145
The complaint
Mr G has said that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) (118) lent to him 
irresponsibly. Mr G has said he was accepted for an unsecured personal loan, when 118 
should have known this wouldnt be affordable for him.
What happened
In April 2018, Mr G applied for a loan with 118. And 118 agreed to lend the £1,000 Mr G 
asked for. The loan agreement was for a period of 24 months  with Mr G due to pay 
£2,380.32 back by the end of the term. The monthly payment towards the loan was £99.18, 
and the APR on the loan being 169.9%
Mr G feels 118 did the wrong thing in lending to him. Hes explained that when he applied for 
the above loan, he already had other credit commitments, with various lenders. He said 118 
should have seen this and realised this loan would have been unaffordable for him. In 
addition, Mr G said that when he was applying for the loan, he wasnt aware that 118 needed 
to check he would be able to repay the funds without borrowing from elsewhere. And this is 
what he had needed to do to repay the loan in this case.
 
Because Mr G felt 118 had done the wrong thing in lending to him, he raised a complaint 
with it.
118 responded to Mr Gs concerns. It was satisfied it had lent to him responsibly. 118 said it 
had asked Mr G extensive questions about his income and expenditure, as well as using 
standard industry tools to verify the information provided to it. 118 also said that during the 
application process it had made Mr G aware that the information he gave would be used to 
make a decision about whether to lend to him, and that Mr G had confirmed the information 
hed provided was true and complete.
118 said that on the basis of the above, it had made a correct lending decision. It also noted 
that Mr G had requested a refund of any interest and charges  but it didnt add late or 
missed payments fees to an account. Or any additional interest during the cycle of the loan.
Mr G was dissatisfied with 118s response. And so, he referred his complaint to this service 
for an independent review.
Our investigators opinion
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They felt that 
118 has completed proportionate checks, and the loan was affordable for Mr G based on the 
information they had.
Mr G didnt agree. Mr G said the salary details provided by 118 werent correct, nor was the 
information that said Mr G was a homeowner with no mortgage. Mr G said 118 knew he had 
a lot of debt at the time it lent to him, and that he wasnt keeping up with those payments due 
to personal circumstances. Mr G also said our investigator didnt have his credit file from the 
time of the lending.
Because Mr G disagreed, his complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I sent a provisional decision to both parties, detailing my thoughts. In this I said;
Ive considered all of the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not intending on upholding this complaint. Ive explained why below.
Its important to highlight that when coming to my decision Ive taken into account the 
relevant law, rules and guidance in relation to concerns about irresponsible lending. And, 
Ive needed to consider the below issues:
Did 118 complete reasonable and proportionate checks, to satisfy itself that Mr G 
would be able to make repayment of the loan in a sustainable way?
If 118 did complete the above  was a fair decision made, in respect of whether to 
lend to Mr G?
If 118 didnt complete the above  would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown Mr G would have been able to make repayments in a sustainable way?
Did 118 act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr G in any other way?
Ive done this in relation to the loan provided to Mr G in April 2018.
Reasonable and proportionate checks?
In April 2019, 118 was required to carry out a reasonable assessment of whether Mr G could 
afford to make the loan repayments in a sustainable way. And when carrying out checks to 
make sure this was the case, the checks had to be borrower focused. So, this means 118 
had to consider the impact the lending would have on Mr G  not just how likely it was that 
118 would receive its money back by the end of the term.
As above, 118 also had to make sure the checks were proportionate to the circumstances 
of the loan. Whether a check is proportionate will depend on the circumstances of the loan. 
So, checks could include a number of things, including  but not limited to  the particular 
circumstances of the borrower (e.g their financial history, current situation and outlook, and 
any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they 
were seeking.
So, Ive considered this in relation to the loan agreed in April 2018. To do this, Ive looked at 
what checks 118 completed, and what information it gathered at the time of lending, to see 
whether the checks it made were proportionate enough for 118 to be confident the lending 
would be sustainable for Mr G.
And having sone this, Im satisfied 118 did complete proportionate checks, before agreeing 
to lend to Mr G in this instance.
Ive seen a copy of the information Mr G provided when he completed his application for 
lending. In this Mr G noted his income was £1,900 a month. 118 has said it completed a 
verification check on this information, using standard industry tools  which look to see 
whether the disclosed income is consistent with the turnover of the consumers bank 
accounts. And it has provided a copy of the information that it received from this check. I can 
see that this showed the information Mr G provided was consistent with the turnover from his 
bank accounts. So, Im satisfied 118 took steps to understand Mr S income.In terms of expenditure  Im aware that 118 completed a credit file check. Ive seen a copy 
of the credit reporting document 118 used  and can see it provides details of the credit 
Mr G had at the time, as well as additional information in relation to this credit history. This 
check showed that Mr G had seven accounts, six of which he owed money on. 
These accounts consisted of three credit cards, a mail order account, an unsecured loan, 
and a current account. 118 then took into account what Mr G said he spent on repaying 
borrowing each month  which he noted was £300. Looking at the credit file it considered 
Mr G was likely to repaying more than this  with the likely expenditure on existing credit 
being £442 a month. So, it used this figure when working out how affordable the loan applied 
for would be.
The credit report also showed all lending being paid up to date  with no adverse markers 
such as defaults or county court judgments. And so, there was no suggestion that there were 
any concerns around borrowing at the time.
In addition to this, 118 calculated Mr Gs likely monthly living expenses. It calculated this as 
25% of Mr Gs monthly salary. After taking into account Mr Gs credit commitments, living 
expenses and the monthly payment for this loan, 118 said the information showed a 
disposable income of £883.52. And given this, it was satisfied the checks showed Mr S could 
repay the loan sustainably. 
Thinking about the above, Im satisfied 118 did complete proportionate checks, to 
understand his outgoings and how these might be effected by the loan he was applying for. 
Mr G has said his income details werent correct, and that his loan application said he was a 
homeowner with no mortgage  which wasnt true. But it was Mr G that provided these 
details to 118  Ive seen the information contained on the application Mr G made. And Im 
satisfied 118 did enough by using the above-mentioned industry tools to verify Mr Gs 
income.
In summary, 118 needed to complete a reasonable assessment of Mr Gs affordability, doing 
so in a proportionate way. And I think that given the amount the loan was for, and the length 
of it, the checks completed were indeed proportionate. So, Im satisfied 118 acted correctly 
here.
Was a fair decision made, in respect of whether to lend to Mr G?
As Im satisfied proportionate checks were carried out in this case, I need to decide whether, 
in light of the information gathered, a fair decision was made by agreeing to lend to Mr G. 
Ive thought carefully about this. And I think 118 did make a fair decision to lend, based on 
what those proportionate checks showed.
The checks completed did suggest that Mr G would be left with a reasonable level of 
disposable income after the income and expenditure checks were completed. This meaning 
that 118 wouldnt be leaving Mr G in a position where he was struggling for funds.
Given that I dont think the checks showed any cause for concern about lending to Mr G, I 
also think it made a fair decision to lend on this occasion.
Did 118 act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr G in any other way?
Ive thought about whether 118 acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way. And I dont 
think it did. Im satisfied 118 completed reasonable and proportionate checks. And that these 
checks suggested to 118 that Mr G would be able to repay the loan, without being placed 
into undue difficulty.Mr G has mentioned needed to borrow from elsewhere, to pay this loan. But I cant see there 
was anything within the proportionate searches completed, which suggest this to 118 when 
making its decision. So, Im satisfied this doesnt alter the outcome of this complaint. And for 
the reasons above, I dont think 118 acted unfairly.
118 responded to my provisional decision and confirmed its agreement. Mr G also 
responded. He explained he didnt agree with the provisional decision. In summary, Mr G 
said that he had used his available credit facilities, including his overdraft at the time of 
applying for this loan. And, he said it was incorrect to say there were no defaults on his file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains the same as noted in my provisional decision. I 
havent received any comment or evidence from either party, that changes my thoughts on 
the outcome of the case, or the reasoning around this outcome. 
Mr G has said that he was in financial difficulties at the time of applying for the loan and said 
he did have defaults. But Ive looked at the credit reporting from when Mr G took out the 
loan, and there were no defaults registered at that time. So, Im satisfied with my decision in 
this regard.
I do understand Mr G was in financial difficulties and said he had used 100% of the credit 
hed taken out. And Im not disputing that Mr G may have been in financial difficulties. 
Rather, I need to consider whether, when deciding to lend, 118 completed proportionate 
checks to ensure repaying the loan would be sustainable. And I do think it completed 
proportionate checks. 
Based on the information shown in these checks I think 118 made a fair and reasonable 
decision to lend. There wasnt anything within the checks completed that should have raised 
concerns for 118. And, based on the information it gathered the loan, including income and 
expenditure information, repayment of it did look to be sustainable. So, I dont think 118 did 
anything wrong here.
As such, my final decision remains the same as noted in my provisional decision.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money), to do anything more in respect of this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman