DRN-2805939
The complaint
Mr A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) set up a forbearance 
plan instead of a payment holiday in relation to his credit card account, which ultimately 
resulted in the closure of his account.
What happened
Mr A asked for a payment holiday on his credit card in April 2020. But, in error, NatWest set 
up a forbearance plan which led to late markers being reported on Mr As credit file for the 
three months the plan was in place. Mr A made NatWest aware of this in July 2020. 
NatWest acknowledged it had made an error and said it would arrange for the credit file to 
be corrected.
NatWest explained to Mr A that, had the payment holiday been agreed, interest wouldve 
continued to accrue on the account. But, with a forbearance plan, no interest was 
incurred for that time. But it said it wouldnt reinstate the interest.
As well as incorrectly setting up a forbearance plan, NatWest issued a termination letter to 
Mr A. NatWest said that as this had been issued as a result of an error, it would retract the 
termination letter to prevent the default being applied to the credit file. But it couldnt 
reinstate the account and, once the payment holiday  that was by then in place for July, 
August and September 2020  ended, Mr A would revert back to minimum payments but 
not be able to use the card.
NatWest refunded the annual fee of £24 and a £12 late payment fee. It also gave Mr A 
£50 compensation for what had gone wrong.
Following Mr As complaint in October 2020, NatWest found that the credit file hadnt 
been amended as promised. It also acknowledged that it had also made errors such as 
failing to call Mr A back. In recognition of all the errors, including the closure of the 
account, it awarded £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr A.
Our investigator considered this complaint. While he agreed NatWest had made 
mistakes, he felt that the compensation offered and action taken was a fair reflection of 
what went wrong. So he didnt think it should do anything further.
Mr A disagreed. He said he didnt want his account closed and that hed asked for a 
payment holiday rather than a forbearance plan. He wants to know why these errors 
happened and told us he hasnt accepted the £150. He wants NatWest to at least be able 
to open a similar credit card account with the same limit and APR (6%).
The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint  Ill explain why.
Mr A wants to know why a forbearance plan was set up rather than a payment holiday. But 
it appears that the answer to this is that it was an error, rather than something done 
intentionally. NatWest hasnt been able to provide any further explanation than this but, 
where mistakes happen, there often is no further information that can be provided.
While NatWest can and should put Mr A back in the position he wouldve been in if the error 
hadnt been made, it cant actually undo the fact that a forbearance plan was put in place; 
only the resulting impact on things like his credit file. But in trying to resolve the matter, it 
allowed Mr A the advantages of the forbearance plan, whilst removing the disadvantages. 
By this I mean that it didnt apply the interest that wouldve been incurred had the payment 
holiday been correctly applied, but it removed the impact on Mr As credit file. While this 
was done much later than it shouldve been, I havent seen that Mr A has suffered any 
financial detriment as a result of this.
So in terms of the forbearance plan, I dont think Mr A has lost out. But I turn next to 
the closure of the account.
NatWest acknowledges it shouldnt have closed the account. Its clear that Mr A feels 
strongly about this and wants the account to be reinstated. Ive been in contact with 
NatWest to query why the account cant be re-opened and its explained that, as the 
account has been closed for longer than six months, its systems wont allow it to reopen it. 
It also isnt able to open a new account for Mr A without him applying for it, as a new credit 
agreement would need to be signed; the previous agreement no longer applies as the 
account was terminated. And it also cant allow him to sign a new agreement without the 
relevant credit checks being completed.
While I appreciate how frustrating this is for Mr A, its not for me to ask NatWest to change 
its systems and processes  this is a matter of commercial judgment and not something our 
service would generally interfere with. While Mr A has suffered trouble and upset as a 
result of this, I think NatWest has done enough to compensate him for what happened. In 
addition to what it had already given in compensation, it awarded Mr A £150, though it 
seems that he hasnt yet accepted this. NatWest has also said that Mr A could apply for 
another credit card with it though, as mentioned, this would still be subject to credit checks. 
It has also suggested that if he is successful in an application for a new credit card, it can 
then consider applying a purchase interest waiver. But it cant do this until Mr A is 
successful in his new application. It also made me aware of a new credit card available 
which offers 0% interest on purchases for 20 months so these options should, in theory, be 
more beneficial to Mr A than the 6% rate he was on.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr A was hoping for  he wanted the account 
reinstated. And I acknowledge theres no guarantee hell be accepted for a new card. But 
I think NatWest has accepted it made an error and has done what it reasonably can to try 
to put things right. So I wont be asking it to do anything further, though it should ensure 
Mr A is given the option of receiving the £150 compensation if previous cheques, or other 
means of payment, have now expired.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 October 2021.Melanie Roberts
 
Ombudsman