DRN-3550696
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc recorded a default on his 
credit file after he was unable to make payments because of Covid-19. He would like the 
default removed from his file.  
What happened
Mr D has a credit card issued by M&S Bank. He made some balance transfers totalling 
around £16,000 to the card account and set up a standing order to pay off significantly more 
than the minimum payment each month. 
The bank says that there were arrears on the account in the second half of 2019 but that it 
was up to date by December 2019. That is not however the main subject of Mr Ds concerns. 
Mr D has explained that he was out of work from late 2019 but that he had a new job lined 
up, starting in spring 2020. Unfortunately, because of the Covid-19 pandemic, he was unable 
to start that job as intended. Because he had savings but had not started work, he was not 
eligible for any benefit or furlough payments. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, introduced a payment holiday scheme for 
people in a similar situation to Mr D. Mr D applied for a payment holiday, and M&S Bank 
agreed that he did not need to make any payments in April, May and June 2020. That was in 
line with the FCA guidance. 
By the end of the payment holiday, however, Mr D was still out of work and remained unable 
to make the contractual payments required. The bank agreed to a further 60 days 
moratorium while Mr D sought help from a debt charity. From August 2020 the account was 
in a debt management plan, when token payments were made, reflecting that Mr D could not 
afford to pay anything more.  
In September 2020 M&S Bank sent a default notice, followed by a final demand in October 
2020. The account was defaulted in November 2020. 
Mr D complained about the default which, he says, is causing him difficulties because he 
cannot obtain credit. He was, he says, ahead of the repayment schedule when he had to 
stop work through no fault of his own. He has pointed out too that he is now in a well-paid 
job and has been able to make significant payments to the credit card account. 
When Mr D referred the matter to this service, one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. Our investigator thought however that the bank had acted fairly in the 
circumstances. Mr D did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.          
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr D. Having been paying more than the monthly 
minimum required, he found himself in a position  through no fault of his own  where he 
could not make the relatively low minimum payments. The fact that he had made 
overpayments so that he was ahead of his own repayment schedule made no difference, 
since the account had no repayment schedule set by the bank. It was a running account, not 
a fixed loan. 
I think its important too to note that the recording of a default is not intended as a 
punishment, although I can understand why it might have felt like that to Mr D. Rather, it 
provides factual information to potential other lenders, which they can then use as part of an 
overall credit assessment. I accept in this case that Mr D had routinely made overpayments 
and that his payment difficulties were caused by external factors. I note too that, once he 
found new employment, Mr D was able to meet the contractual payments comfortably. 
Unfortunately, those are not matters which M&S Bank could properly take into account in 
deciding whether to record a default. It owed a duty to credit reference agencies and to their 
subscribers to report the fact that Mr D had been making only token payments and was in 
default. What happened before and after that was largely irrelevant. 
Mr D says that the bank should have told him that he could revert to making minimum 
payments, rather than the increased payments he had been making. His account statements 
did however show the minimum payments required each month, and I dont believe the bank 
was required to do any more. In any event, the main reason for the default was that Mr D 
was unable to make anything more than token payments after the end of the payment 
holiday.
I do not believe therefore that Mr D has been treated unfairly.      
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Marks & Spencer Financial 
Services Plc to do anything more to resolve Mr Ds complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision 
before 31 October 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman