DRN-3554688
The complaint
Miss J complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) provided her with an 
unaffordable loan.
What happened
Miss J took out an instalment loan with Lending Stream as follows:
Date 
TakenLoan 
Amount Monthly 
InstalmentsHighest Total 
Monthly Repayment
May 2021 £300 6 £108.99
Miss J told us that when Lending Stream provided this loan her credit score was very low 
and she already had accounts and credit cards which meant she wasnt in a position to pay 
this loan back.
Lending Stream didnt uphold Miss Js complaint so she brought her complaint to us. One of 
our adjudicators reviewed what Miss J and Lending Stream told us about the loan. 
After carefully considering the loan amount, what was apparent about Miss Js 
circumstances at the time and her history with the lender, our adjudicator didnt recommend 
upholding Miss Js complaint.  
Miss J disagreed. She still felt that Lending Stream had provided the loan irresponsibly and 
she sent us further information about her financial situation at the time. 
Miss J asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint so it has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website and Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
Id like to reassure Miss J that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently 
reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I am not upholding Miss Js complaint for broadly 
the same reasons as our adjudicator but Ill explain my reasons in a bit more detail which 
I hope will help Miss J understand why Ive reached this conclusion. 
Lending Stream provided Miss J with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use so it 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide the loan irresponsibly.
Lending Stream was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Miss J before providing it. Our website sets out 
what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early 
stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a 
borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Lending Stream says it agreed to Miss Js application after carrying out proportionate 
affordability checks. This included asking Miss J to declare her income and to tell Lending 
Stream what she spent on other monthly outgoings such as rent, food, household bills and 
other payments. 
Lending Stream compared the information Miss J provided against national averages and 
adjusted the figures she provided accordingly to ensure that as far as possible it relied on 
information that was likely reflect her actual financial situation as realistically as possible. 
Lending Stream also asked Miss J about any other credit expenses and did its own credit 
checks to gain an understanding of Miss Js credit history and find out about her current 
credit commitments. 
Lending Stream says the information it gathered about Miss J showed that the loan 
shouldve been affordable for her and in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. 
As this was Miss Js first loan with Lending Stream, I think Lending Stream was reasonably 
entitled to rely on the information Miss J provided in the absence of any contradictory 
information. The income and expenditure information it gathered at the time suggested that 
she was well able to afford this borrowing - it looked like she shouldve had ample 
disposable income in order to afford the loan repayments over the loan term. 
There wasnt anything else shown in the checks Lending Stream did that suggested 
otherwise. 
At this early stage, Miss J didn't have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
Lending Stream to any underlying money problems. 
And I cant see that there was anything in the information Miss J provided or the information 
Lending Stream shouldve been aware of, which meant that Lending Stream shouldve taken 
steps to verify the information Miss J had declared. 
The credit checks Lending Stream acquired didnt highlight anything adverse that shouldve 
put off a responsible lender from lending or make it think it needed more information before 
providing any further credit. 
There wasnt anything at that stage to indicate to Lending Stream that Miss J had an 
excessive amount of credit or that she was struggling financially and I dont think anything it 
saw suggested that paying for this loan was likely to become a problem. Ive taken into account everything Miss J has said including her comments sent in response 
to our adjudicators opinion. 
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a low credit score or a 
credit history showing other borrowing or even an impaired credit record. These things on 
their own wouldnt necessarily be reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan 
application if the loan otherwise looked affordable  as it did here. 
I think its fair to say that Lending Stream was reasonably entitled to decide Miss Js lending 
application based on the information it had available at the time. The checks it did were 
sufficient for it to be able to make a fair lending decision. 
And its lending decision doesnt seem unreasonable to me looking at the information the 
lender relied on when deciding whether to provide the loan. 
So I dont feel I've seen enough to be able to uphold Miss Js complaint.
I accept that in reality Miss Js financial situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the other information Lending Stream obtained. But in order to 
uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. And, in this 
case, ultimately I dont think that Lending Stream did anything wrong in deciding to lend to 
Miss J when it provided this loan. 
I appreciate that this isnt the outcome that Miss J has been hoping for  but I hope that 
setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision. 
If Miss J would like help to manage her finances or to speak to someone about her situation 
generally, theres more information about how to get free debt advice and other help on our 
website  or we can provide contact details if she gives us a call. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman