DRN-4005657
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy with Ageas Insurance Limiteds (Ageas) decision not to renew her 
contents insurance policy.
Any references to Ageas include its agents. 
What happened
Miss S says shes been told by Ageas it wont renew her contents policy because shes 
made too many claims. Miss S says there were three claims, but she didnt proceed with all 
of them. Unhappy with the decision not to renew her policy, Miss S complained.
 
Ageas considered Miss S complaint and responded in February 2023. In the final response 
letter, Ageas said there were four claims made during the year, and that was the reason 
Ageas would not offer cover beyond the end date of the policy. 
To put things right, Miss S said she wanted her premiums to be refunded and for 
compensation paid. Her complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt 
think Ageas had acted unfairly. Miss S didnt agree, so this matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and Ill set out below.
Ms A took out her policy in January 2022 and the duration of the policy was for 12 months. I 
havent seen anything in the paperwork which set out Ageas was required to offer cover 
beyond the expiry date set out in the policy summary. 
Its not in dispute Miss S notified Ageas when she thought she might claim on the policy. 
Whilst Miss S says no claims were paid, Ageas says one was. However, I dont consider 
whether one of the claims was paid or not is the key issue at the heart of this dispute. 
Instead, the crux is whether Ageas acted unfairly when deciding not to renew the policy. 
Ultimately, I dont think Ageas acted unfairly. Ive seen the criteria it relied on in reaching the 
decision not to renew Miss S policy. While Im not going to share the exact details of it as its 
commercially sensitive, Im satisfied the criteria for renewing the policy was based on the 
number of claims made in a particular timeframe and Miss S exceeded this. While I know 
this isnt the answer Miss S is hoping for, I havent seen anything to suggest Ageas has 
treated her differently to any other customer. 
Miss S asked Ageas refund her premiums and pay compensation but Im not going to ask it 
to do so. While Miss S chose not to pursue all her claims with Ageas, she could have had 
the benefit of claims being considered under the policy while it was in place. And while I 
understand Ageas decision not to renew the policy was upsetting for Miss S, I dont think its 
done anything wrong, so I wont be requiring it to pay compensation or take any further 
action in respect of Miss S complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 July 2023. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman