DRN-3123158
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the service that she received from Lloyds Bank PLC when she visited 
a branch to withdraw a large sum of money.  
What happened
Mrs C went to a Lloyds branch to withdraw a large sum of money. Mrs C was recovering 
from a serious medical issue and was upset that she had to wait outside in the cold weather 
for twenty-five minutes before being allowed into branch.
When Mrs C was allowed into branch she was recognised as a regular customer by the 
counter staff and was given the money that she wanted to withdraw. But afterwards, as    
Mrs C was leaving the branch, the manager approached her and asked her to show her 
driving license or passport as ID. Mrs C didnt have those forms of ID on her at that time, and 
so the manager took the money from her and asked her to return to branch with ID to enable 
the withdrawal to be completed  which Mrs C subsequently did. 
Mrs C wasnt happy about what had happened, especially as the money was taken from her 
in front of other branch customers, causing her embarrassment. So, she raised a complaint.  
Lloyds looked at Mrs Cs complaint. They acknowledged that the standard of service that 
had been provided to Mrs C in branch wasnt to the level that they would expect, and so they 
apologised to Mrs C and offered to make a payment to her of £100 as compensation for 
what had happened.
Mrs C didnt feel that Lloyds response went far enough, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They also felt that Lloyds should 
pay a higher amount of compensation to Mrs C, so they recommended that the complaint be 
upheld in Mrs Cs favour and that Lloyds should pay a further £150 to Mrs C, taking the total 
amount of compensation to £250.
Lloyds accepted our investigators recommendation, but Mrs C remained dissatisfied, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that the service that Mrs C received when she visited Lloyds branch wasnt to the 
standard that she should reasonably expect.
In circumstances such as this, what this service would expect would be that Lloyds would 
acknowledge the poor service and apologise to Mrs C for it. Additionally, it would also be 
expected that Lloyds would agree to make a payment of fair and reasonable compensation 
to Mrs C considering what took place.
Lloyds appear to have done that here. They did acknowledge the poor standard of service 
that Mrs C received, and they did apologise to Mrs C because of this. Furthermore, while 
Lloyds initially made an offer of £100 compensation to Mrs C, they have subsequently 
agreed, in response to the recommendation put forward by our investigator, to increase the 
amount of compensation payable to Mrs C by a further £150, to a total of £250.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one party not being considered as being such by someone else. However, the 
£250 compensation payment to which Lloyds have agreed here does feel fair to me, and I 
can confirm that its commensurate with what this service would expect, given the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I also note that Mrs C is unhappy that she had to wait outside branch for some time before 
being allowed inside. I can appreciate how this must have been upsetting for Mrs C, 
especially given that she was recovering her health following a significant medical issue at 
that time. 
However, I feel that it must be recognised that at the time of Mrs Cs branch visit, Lloyds 
were implementing special policies as a result of the global Covd-19 pandemic that were 
designed to ensure social distancing and to mitigate against potential viral transmission. As 
such, while I can appreciate that Mrs C might have been inconvenienced by being asked to 
remain outside until such time that she could be seen by Lloyds staff in adherence with 
these policies, I dont feel that I can fairly censure Lloyds for having these policies in place.
All of which means that, while I am upholding this complaint in Mrs Cs favour, Im doing so 
on the basis that Lloyds must make the payment of £250 to Mrs C to which theyve already 
agreed. And this is because, as explained, Im satisfied that this payment amount is fair
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs C was wanting here, but I hope that she will 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.  
Putting things right
Lloyds must make a payment to Mrs C of £250.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC on the basis 
explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman