DRN-4512793
The complaint
Mr M complains that Everyday Lending Limited (Everyday) irresponsibly gave him a loan 
that he couldnt afford.
What happened
On 22 July 2021, Mr M applied for a loan with Everyday. He was given a loan of
£12,500 over 60 months and the monthly repayment was £423.62. The loan was intended 
to repay an existing loan of £5,308 with a monthly repayment of £371.89. The remainder 
of the loan was to enable some garden improvements. 
In 2023, Mr M complained to Everyday to say that the account shouldnt have been
opened for him because it wasnt affordable.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. Everyday didnt agree. So, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 1 December 2023, a section 
of which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision, I set 
out the reasons why it was my intention not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I set out an extract 
below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to consider it
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in
the round.
Everyday will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending.
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Ms complaint is that Everyday made credit available that was unaffordable. To 
accompany the loan application Mr M had to provide two bank statements and one month 
payslip. These confirmed Mr Ms income and expenditure. Everyday also carried out a 
credit search in Mr Ms name to assess Mr Ms level of debt at the time of the lending 
decision and to understand how he had been managing that debt. Everyday told us that 
the credit check it secured showed that Mr Ms credit history was very clean at the time of 
the loan application. This showed that Mr Ms management of his existing credit showed 
no recent history of CCJs, defaults or bankruptcies at the time of the loan. And there was 
no blemish on that record at all in the recent months prior to the lending decision. So, it 
seemed from the credit file that at the point that the lending decision was made, Mr M was 
affording his existing credit. 
I have noted that Mr M already had some credit at this time. And Ive noted that some of it 
was to be repaid by this loan. Mr Ms income was not modest in itself or in comparison to 
his committed expenditure, including the cost of servicing his existing credit. Thinking 
about these things, Im not persuaded that Everyday had sufficient reason not to lend 
money to Mr M or that the new borrowing was sufficient to be automatically unreasonable. 
And so, having considered all of the above, I do not think that the credit position was such 
that Everyday should have avoided any further lending to Mr M. 
In saying that I have also had consideration for the purpose of the loan. The purpose of 
the loan was in part for debt consolidation. The monthly cost of the new borrowing was a 
little over £50 a month more expensive than the cost of the existing borrowing the loan 
was to repay. So, I dont see this loan as evidence solely of new credit being provided by 
Everyday, adding to an already large amount of personal borrowing. 
Instead, rather than the new credit solely adding to Mr Ms burden of credit, in terms of 
total debt and the monthly cost of servicing that debt, it looks like Mr M was taking steps, 
that could be termed sensible, to manage his existing debt by taking out this loan and 
using it to pay off another debt. So, having considered all the details of this complaint, it 
doesnt seem automatically unreasonable for Everyday to have facilitated all of that. And 
so, Everyday were not put on notice of any reason not to agree the lending from that.
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, Im not persuaded that 
based on the information provided to Everyday, or what Everyday could see of Mr Ms 
management of other credit, ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did.
Having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that the credit Everyday provided to Mr M was unreasonable.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 14 December 2023. Everyday has not yet acknowledged the 
provisional decision. But Mr M has. Mr M has disagreed with those provisional findings and 
has made a further submission challenging the provisional findings. 
Having reviewed the case file again in its entirety, I do not think it prejudicial to Everyday for 
me to proceed to a final decision in this complaint, without a further submission from them. 
So, I am proceeding to my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has been a strong advocate for his case, highlighting the parts of his circumstances 
that aid his argument. I would like to assure Mr M that I have noted his comments. And I 
considered all those aspects of the complaint before reaching my provisional findings. In 
particular, I thought about the historic markers of poor credit and his existing other 
borrowings that Mr M mentioned specifically. 
I have considered all the details presented to me in reaching my determination. I considered 
historic adverse credit information and thought too about the clean recent history. Having 
done so, I did not think that the things mentioned by Mr M were sufficient in themselves to 
outweigh the other parts of the evidence from the time of the lending decision in question 
that suggested the lending was not unreasonable. The aspects of the complaint that Mr M has highlighted in his latest submission, were all 
things that were raised during the investigation of the complaint and which I had considered 
before reaching my provisional decision. 
So, as neither party has provided any new information or argument for me to consider 
following my provisional decision, I have no reason to depart from those findings. And as Ive 
already set out my full reasons (above) for not upholding Mr Ms complaint, I have nothing 
further to add. 
So, having looked again at all the submissions made in this complaint, including Mr Ms 
latest submission, I have still seen insufficient reason to uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman