DRN-3633859
The complaint
C complains Xbridge Limited trading as Simply Business mis-sold it legal expenses 
insurance as they failed to say who the insurer was or to tell C about policy exclusions. And 
when C claimed on the policy, the insurer declined cover on grounds an exclusion applied.
What happened
In July 2020 C took out legal expenses insurance (LEI) through Xbridge using an on-line 
comparison website. The LEI insurer declined Cs claim for cover to pursue a third party for 
payment of an invoice based on an exclusion in the policy. 
C complained Xbridge had failed to make it aware of the identity of the LEI insurer or any 
exclusion clauses before it bought the policy. C said it suffered financial loss when the third 
party failed to pay an invoice for services C had provided and the policy didnt cover the 
claim. And Cs director, Mr S, said hed suffered distress and inconvenience as a result.
Xbridge didnt uphold Cs complaint. They said theyd identified the insurer and drawn the 
terms and conditions of the policy to Cs attention as part of the on-line process for obtaining 
an insurance quotation. Since C was unhappy with Xbridges response, it brought its 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
Our investigator said Xbridge hadnt advised C in relation to the LEI as part of the sale. He 
thought Xbridge had provided sufficiently clear information about the LEI insurer and the 
terms and conditions of the policy to enable C to come to a decision about whether the LEI 
met its needs and requirements before buying it. And C had had the chance to cancel the 
insurance during the 14-day cooling off period as well. So, he didnt think Xbridge had 
treated C unfairly. Since C didnt agree, its complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is brought on behalf of C by its director, Mr S. Im sorry to hear about the 
impact the unpaid invoice and insurance situation have had on him personally. Mr S has said 
he bought two insurance policies from Xbridge  one for C and another for himself as a sole 
trader. Ive seen no evidence of a separate policy in Mr Ss name. There is only one policy 
number as I understand it. That suggests only one policy exists and the documents Ive seen 
show the policy was in Cs name. The complaint Xbridge responded to and which I have 
considered is Cs complaint, not Mr Ss complaint. And this decision only addresses Cs 
complaint. If theres another policy for Mr S as a sole trader and he has concerns about how 
that was sold, hed need to make a separate complaint about that. To make things clear, Ill 
refer to C throughout this decision.
I also note Cs raised concerns about Xbridges practices. But I only have the power to 
consider Cs individual complaint about the sale of the policy.
C bought the LEI alongside professional indemnity insurance. C has acknowledged Xbridge 
provided it with their Insurance Terms of Business Agreement, (the Agreement) before C 
bought the insurance. The Agreement made clear Xbridge was acting as an intermediary, 
arranging insurance for C. Xbridge could offer insurance products from a range of insurers, 
and had authority to carry out certain tasks for those insurers such as collecting premiums. I 
dont think that made them agents of the insurers in relation to the terms of the LEI contract 
as C has suggested. But even if Im wrong about that, I think Xbridge did enough to make C 
aware of the terms and conditions of the LEI policy before it bought it, as Ill explain.  
Im satisfied from the terms of the Agreement, and from the evidence Ive seen about the  
on-line process C went through, that Xbridge was not advising C about the insurance C 
should buy. The Agreement set out that Xbridge would provide information about products 
they could offer based on Cs response to questions they may ask. It said they wouldnt 
advise or recommend insurance to C. And it said C would need to make its own choice 
based on information Xbridge provided. Here C answered a series of questions via an       
on-line comparison website. C was given information about the insurance products available 
based on the answers it provided. Xbridge didnt give C advice or provide a 
recommendation. 
Where a sale is non-advised, as here, we expect the seller of the insurance to provide 
enough information to enable the buyer to make a choice about whether they want to buy 
the policy. And the information needs to be clear, fair and not misleading. 
I agree with C that Xbridges terms of business didnt identify the LEI insurer or set out the 
terms and conditions of the cover the insurer would provide. Since the Agreement was 
setting out the terms of Cs contract with Xbridge, not the insurers, thats not surprising. 
I appreciate C doesnt recall the LEI insurer being identified during the on-line process or 
seeing the exclusions the insurer relied on to decline Cs claim. But I am satisfied Xbridge 
gave C this information. 
From the evidence Xbridge has provided, C will have seen first a summary of the LEI 
insurance available. On selecting the LEI cover, C will then have seen the name of the LEI 
insurer; confirmation the product Xbridge were offering met Cs demands and needs based 
on the information it had provided; and a note that C should check that information and read 
the policy documents. 
Wed expect a seller of insurance to draw unusual or significant exclusions to the buyers 
attention. But the exclusion the insurer relied on to decline Cs claim is common in LEI 
policies. And it isnt one I think would tend to affect the decision of customers generally to 
buy the policy. It was sold alongside professional indemnity insurance at relatively low cost. 
Given the policy wasnt sold on a standalone basis, I think its unlikely the exclusion would 
cause customers not to take it and instead decide to get insurance elsewhere. So, I dont 
think Xbridge needed to draw the exclusion to Cs attention specifically when C was taking 
out cover. 
In any event, the policy documents setting out the terms, conditions and exclusions were 
accessible to C via a link. Since this was an internet sale, I think it was reasonable for 
Xbridge to provide information about the policy and exclusions to C in that way. I think its 
reasonable to expect C to have clicked on the link to satisfy itself the policy provided the 
levels of cover it required. Having done so, I think C was, or ought to have been able to 
make an informed choice about buying the insurance based on the information Xbridge 
provided.
C also had the chance to review the policy during the 14-day cooling off period provided for in Xbridges terms and conditions. Id expect C to have checked then it had the cover it 
required. If it didnt, it could have cancelled the policy at that stage.
Even if Id thought Xbridge had failed to provide sufficiently clear information, I wouldnt 
conclude theyd mis-sold the policy to C. C hasnt made any persuasive submissions it would 
have bought LEI cover elsewhere. The LEI cover was part of a package where Cs main 
purpose in taking out insurance was to get professional indemnity cover for the services it 
provided. Other LEI policies are likely to have contained similar exclusions. C hasnt 
provided any evidence of alternative policies that would have covered the claim. And a 
standalone policy is likely to have been more expensive. On balance, I think C would have 
purchased the LEI cover in any event. 
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mr S will be disappointed, I dont uphold Cs 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman