DRN-3832135
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 and section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in 
relation to a solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier, 
creating and unfair relationship with Shawbrook.
Mr and Mrs V is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In March 2016, Mr and Mrs V were sold a  solar panel system including voltage optimiser 
and boiler optimiser (the system) by a supplier, which Ill call P. Following a meeting at their 
home, Mr and Mrs V decided to purchase the system and finance it through a 3-year fixed 
sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In June 2022, the CMC made a claim on Mr and Mrs Vs behalf under section 75 and section 
140 of the Act to Shawbrook. The CMC said that P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mr and Mrs V to enter into the contract with P and made the relationship 
between Shawbrook and Mr and Mrs V unfair on them. 
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made, which created an unfair 
relationship between Shawbrook and Mr and Mrs V:
The value of their property would increase. 
The solar panels would be maintenance free.
The amount generated from the feed-in tariff would cover the monthly loan payments. 
The reductions in energy bills and the funds generated through the feed in tariff 
would be sufficient to fund the cost of the credit agreement.
The CMC also said an unfair relationship was created because Mr and Mrs V were not 
provided with the necessary pre-contract information and cancellation notice for the loan, the 
sale was pressurised and Shawbrook paid or received commission in relation to the sale. 
Shawbrook responded to the claim to say the part of the claim about misrepresentation was 
made outside the limits in the Limitation Act, that the necessary pre-contract and 
cancellation information was provided, that there was no evidence that the sale was 
pressurised and that it paid no commission to P. 
The CMC then referred a complaint to us. We told Shawbrook about the complaint. 
Shawbrook reviewed what had happened but didnt change its position. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs V nor that the relationship between them and Shawbrook was 
unfair.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view. It said:
P used an electricity unit rate in the quote that was higher that Mr and Mrs Vs unit 
rate at the time, causing the estimated electricity savings to be much higher. 
It thinks that P paid salespeople £500 to £750 per sale but no basic wage, so if they 
didnt make the sale they didnt get paid. 
Mr and Mrs V said:
The salesperson said the system will pay for itself in five years, so he recommended 
a five-year loan. He said electricity will be so expensive that we all will suffer so now 
is the best time to get solar panels. 
The solar panels dont generate as much electricity as he was promised. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75, and section 140 of the Act. 
Section 56 says that any negotiations between Mr and Mrs V and P, as the supplier, are 
deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook. 
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. This 
means that Mr and Mrs V could claim against Shawbrook, the creditor, for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way they could have claimed 
against P, the supplier. 
Section 140 allows a court to award compensation if it finds a relationship is unfair to the 
debtor  and in doing so the court would take into account the whole relationship. That 
means a misrepresentation on the part of P could potentially lead to an unfair relationship 
between Shawbrook and Mr and Mrs V.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or its agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide what happened on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The CMC says that Mr and Mrs V were told that the system would be self-funding in that the 
FIT payments or the FIT payments and electricity savings from the system would cover the monthly loan repayments. Mr and Mrs V say they were told the system would pay for itself in 
five years, although they took out a three-year loan. 
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with Mr and Mrs Vs testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process, and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the Mr and 
Mrs Vs version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments. The loan 
agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
On balance Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs V were told that the cost of the system was 
£7,218.00. The quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement 
which sets out that the cash price of the system was £7,218.00. The monthly payment was 
£197.72. The total amount of credit is £7,118.00 and the total amount payable would be 
£7,217.92.
The CMC has said that Mr and Mrs V were told the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT payments or the FIT payments and electricity savings. Mr and Mrs V say 
they were told the system would pay for itself within five years. There is an inconsistency 
between these accounts which to some extent calls into question the reliability of what has 
been said. 
Nevertheless, Ive considered the quote that was provided by P as well as what the CMC 
and Mr and Mrs V have said about their meeting with Ps representative to decide what is 
most likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs V could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period. 
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs V could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £130.57, As outlined above, Im satisfied that the credit agreement 
and the quote set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due of £197.72. This 
monthly repayment is more than the expected FIT payments in the first year. As a result, Im 
not able to conclude that the Mr and Mrs V were told that the monthly loan repayments 
would be covered by the FIT payments.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs V could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £143.99 and the combined income and 
savings in year one is shown as £332.16. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all 
together. And is still less than the annual loan repayments (12 repayments of £197.72) of 
£2,372.64.
Theres a section headed Repayments with a table that shows the loan as repayable in 36 
monthly payments of £197.72. For each year of the three-year loan, it shows the expected 
grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months and subtracts 
the monthly loan repayment of £197.72, to give an average difference between the monthly 
return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs V could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the 
monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall benefits they could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings, would be over £160 per month 
less than the loan repayments throughout the loan term. 
Ive carefully thought about Mr and Mrs Vs version of events. However, as Ive found that 
the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at 
the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that they were told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the combined FIT payments and electricity savings.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs V that the system would be self-funding overall. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the start. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr and Mrs V were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 30 years. This shows that by the end of year 15 the overall benefits that 
Mr and Mrs V could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under 
the loan agreement. As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs V that the system would pay for 
itself by the end of year 15, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If 
that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to 
enter into the contract, and they subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a 
misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the electricity generation of the system and whether this is in line 
with the contract between P and Mr and Mrs V. I have looked at Mr and Mrs Vs FIT 
statements and Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected based on the 
statements provided  on average generating more than estimated.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data over about ten years to calculate the utility 
price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between the sale and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
this explains why Mr and Mrs V havent been receiving the financial returns they may have 
been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering about ten years. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable 
for P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and 
Mrs V couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the 
returns may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that 
this was due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs V 
entered into the contract.
The CMC says that Mr and Mrs V were told the value of their property would increase 
because of the solar panels. I dont think this was a misrepresentation. If Mr and Mrs V 
decide to sell the property, they will set the asking price and can take into account the value 
of the solar panels. 
Solar panels are generally low maintenance, but Ive seen nothing to persuade me that Mr 
and Mrs V were told they would be maintenance free. Given they are expected to last for up 
to 30 years, I think it would be reasonable to expect there to be some maintenance costs 
during that time. 
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs V were provided with the necessary pre-contract information 
including cancellation rights for the loan and the system purchase. 
Ive not seen evidence that makes me think Mr and Mrs V were pressured into agreeing to 
the purchase. Shawbrook has confirmed it did not pay commission to P in this case. And Ive 
seen no evidence to support the CMCs suggestion about how Ps salespeople were paid. 
Even if they were paid in the way suggested, that does not automatically mean they sold the 
system in a way that created an unfair relationship between Shawbrook and Mr and Mrs P or 
that the sale resulted from undue pressure being applied to Mr and Mrs V during the sales 
meeting. Based on the evidence I have seen in this case Im not persuaded that an unfair 
relationship was created. 
The CMC has mentioned the electricity unit rate in the quote being more than Mr and Mrs V 
were paying at the time. I understand that P would ask for a copy of a recent bill to inform 
the electricity unit rate used in the quote. But if the customer did not provide that, then an 
assumption would be made. I think it is likely that Mr and Mrs V did not provide this 
information when asked. And I dont think the assumption used by P was unreasonable, 
even if it was higher than what Mr and Mrs V were paying at the time. The quote does state 
the electricity unit rate used, so Mr and Mrs V could compare this with their bills. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs V 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Vs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman