DRN-3379140
The complaint
Ms W complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) defaulted her personal loan.
What happened
Ms W borrowed £7,500 from Santander in November 2018, repayable over 60 months. 
Monthly repayments were £134.63. The payment due on 1 April 2020 was returned unpaid 
by her bank. In April 2020, and then in May 2020, she was hospitalised, so couldnt get any 
letters which were sent to her home address. No more payments were made. Santander 
sent a Default Notice on 11 September 2020 with the arrears at £807.78 and the balance 
£5,685.60. On 27 October 2020, they sent a Notice of Sums in Arrears to say the full amount 
of £5,697.63 was due to be paid. The debt was passed to a debt collection agency and the 
default registered. Ms W paid off the full balance in November 2020.
Ms W complained. She said she wasnt aware of what was happening because any letters 
were sent to her home address. And she wasnt there while she was in hospital, and then 
staying with friends while recuperating. She said she didnt want her friends to collect her 
post because of the danger of catching Covid-19. She didnt know why the direct debit had 
been returned unpaid by her bank. Then, after she paid off the debt  she needed to get a 
letter from Santander to say it had been repaid  to support a mortgage application. This 
took a long time to be sent. And when it was, it was in a word document which the 
mortgage company wouldnt accept. And so - her mortgage application failed.
Santander said that while they were sorry to hear of Ms Ws illness, they werent aware of it 
and continued to manage her loan account as they normally would. So  the default was 
correctly applied and theyd not made an error. The default would therefore not be removed 
and remain on Ms Ws credit file for six years. But as she had now repaid the balance, it 
would show as satisfied.
Ms W brought her complaint to us and our investigator said Santander acted fairly. Theyd 
written to Ms W at the address they had on file. And tried to call and text her also. They 
didnt receive any notification that she wasnt at her address. The direct debit had been 
cancelled by Ms Ws bank, which is why the payments werent made. Turning to the 
settlement letter, Santander told our investigator they sent it to Ms Ws home address, but it 
hadnt apparently been delivered, so they had to send another one - hence the delay. But 
Santander couldnt be held responsible for it not being accepted by Ms Ws mortgage lender. 
Our investigator acknowledged that Ms W had had to call Santander several times about the 
letter and that had been inconvenient. During our investigation, Santander offered a goodwill 
payment of £150 to Ms W  which she rejected.
Ms W rejected Santanders offer and asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant guidance for registering a default is provided by the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO). It says a default should be applied to a customers credit file 
when an account is between three and six months behind in payments. So, I have borne this 
in mind when looking at Ms Ws complaint.
I was sorry to hear of Ms Ws illness and her long period of recovery. 
I can see that the payment to her personal loan on 1 April 2020 was returned unpaid. There 
werent any more payment made  so by November 2020, the loan was seven months in 
arrears. A Default Notice was sent to Ms W on 11 September 2020 and the loan was 
defaulted in October 2020. It was passed to a debt collection agency and the default 
registered on Ms Ws credit file. And so  given the extent of the arrears (six months by 
September 2020), the default was registered in line with the ICOs guidance.
Ms W went into hospital in April 2020 and then again in May 2020. And at other times, she 
told us she was staying with a friend to recover. So  she says she didnt get any post. And 
so, unfortunately, she wasnt aware of her situation as regards the loan. So  she says the 
default is unfair. 
I looked at Santanders records  and theres no notification that Ms W said she was staying 
at a different address or had changed address. Santander did try to call her and text her, but 
without any response. Ms W argues that Santander shouldve then realised she wasnt at 
her address and acted differently. But equally, Santander say that they tried to contact Ms W 
at the address and on her mobile number held on their file. And  I think thats all we 
couldve expected Santander to do under the circumstances. 
Santander told us the direct debit from Ms Ws bank had been cancelled  what this meant 
was that Santander couldnt request any money from that bank and so the payments werent 
made. But  I cant hold Santander responsible for that. If Ms W believes there was an error 
by her current account holding bank for not paying the direct debit  she should approach 
them with her concerns.
Turning to the settlement letter. Its unfortunate that there was a delay in getting this to Ms 
W. Santander said it was sent to her home address. So, Ms W says she had to get someone 
to visit to pick it up  but it wasnt there. So  Santander sent another one. But Ms W argues 
that because it was sent in word format, it wasnt accepted by her mortgage provider. I can 
see it was indeed sent in word format. She showed us some correspondence from two 
mortgage lenders, and both requested to see a letter to say that Ms Ws loan had been 
repaid. 
We asked Ms W if she could ask those lenders to provide a reason why her mortgage 
application was declined, but she couldnt. I did note that both lenders concerned were in the 
process of issuing agreements in principle  which is only the first stage in the mortgage 
process and that is not a mortgage application. Its only later, when a full application is made 
that a lender will make a decision whether to lend or not. And if Ms Ws application was then 
declined  it couldve been for several other reasons (for example, loan to value ratio, 
affordability, or suitability)  rather than the existence of a personal loan, or the format of the 
settlement letter. One of the decision in principle document noted five other reasons as to 
why a mortgage application might fail. So  I cant in all fairness hold Santander responsible 
for any failed mortgage application.
I think Santander acted reasonably and didnt make any errors in what they did. And so  Im 
not upholding Ms Ws complaint.
But - because Ms W had to call Santander a number of times in November 2020 about what had happened  they could see that Ms W had been inconvenienced and they offered a 
goodwill payment of £150. Ms W rejected that offer  but if she wants to accept it, she 
should contact Santander directly. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. I dont think Santander needs to do anything to settle the 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman