DRN-3471147
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy about the way that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited (Cabot) has 
been managing the collection of several outstanding accounts in his name. 
What happened
Over time, Cabot has bought several outstanding credit accounts in Mr Hs name.  Mr H has 
been making nominal monthly payments against these debts for some time.
Mr H was unhappy that the lenders had sold his accounts to Cabot. Mr H wanted Cabot to 
return the accounts to the original lenders so that he could try and mediate settlements with 
them before going to court.
Mr H said that some of the accounts were unenforceable which meant he should be due a 
refund of monies paid or the accounts should be closed so he could mediate.
Cabot told Mr H that certain of the accounts were unenforceable as the original lenders 
couldnt supply copies of the credit agreements that hed requested. Cabot said that 
although this meant it couldnt take legal action to recover the money, the balances 
remained outstanding. Cabot offered Mr H a 70% discount across some of the accounts. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Hs complaint be upheld. He explained that Cabot 
wasnt responsible for the actions of the lenders and that it had acted reasonably when it 
forwarded Mr Hs concerns to them. The investigator clarified that Cabot agrees two credit 
card accounts are unenforceable but that this doesnt mean it should stop asking him to 
make repayments.
The investigator said that Cabot hadnt received formal requests from Mr H in relation to the 
other accounts. Cabot originally offered a 70% discount on the balances which could be paid 
over three months. Cabot has since agreed that any settlement reached can be paid over 12 
months. But that as Mr H didnt accept Cabots previous discount offer, it doesnt have to 
offer the same discount again.
The investigator thought that Cabots offer to pay £100 for the delays in dealing with 
correspondence was fair.
Mr H is unhappy with the investigators recommendation. He says Cabot didnt reply to his 
correspondence about the discount or closing his accounts. Mr H asks who will refund 
money to him if the accounts are unenforceable once he takes court action. 
Mr H says hes not been given statements or full account balances. Mr H says hes been 
misled by Cabot. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that I have summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by the parties 
involved. I dont intend any discourtesy by this. Instead Ive concentrated on what I consider 
to be the key issues. The rules that govern this service allow me to do this. 
The investigator has already given Mr H quite a lot of information about the debts so I dont 
intend repeating that  particularly as some of the information includes account numbers. I 
hope that Mr H can refer to the investigators view letter for an explanation of which accounts 
are being managed by third parties on Cabots behalf. I should also make it clear that I am 
only considering the actions of Cabot and not those of any of the original lenders. 
During his complaint, Mr H has disputed Cabots ownership of the various debts but Im 
satisfied that Cabot is the owner. It has given this service copies of the notices of 
assignment that it sent to Mr H after buying the debts. Due to the age of two of the debts, 
Cabot cant provide the relevant notices that it sent but it seems likely that Cabot did send 
them. As owner of the debts  I consider it was reasonable of Cabot to ask Mr H to repay the 
outstanding balances.
Much of Mr Hs concerns appear to relate to whether certain agreements are enforceable or 
not. Cabot has a record of Mr H asking for copies of agreements for two credit accounts 
under sections 77 to 79 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 77 request). 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) says in its handbook that a credit agreement 
becomes unenforceable until a section 77 request has been complied with. Once Mr H made 
the section 77 requests, Cabot asked the original creditors for copies. And where it couldnt 
provide copies, Cabot told Mr H that the debts were unenforceable. So, Im satisfied that 
Cabot complied with the FCA guidance.
It's not a matter for this service to decide whether a debt is legally enforceable. That is for 
the courts to decide. But I can still consider whether Cabot acted unreasonably when 
pursuing debts from Mr H.
Even where debts are unenforceable, this doesnt mean that Cabot is prevented from asking 
for repayment. It also wouldnt mean that Cabot needs to refund any of the money that Mr H 
has paid in relation to the debts. I dont find that Cabot mislead Mr H or that the nature of its 
contact has been unreasonable or excessive. Im also satisfied that Cabot forwarded Mr Hs 
concerns to the original lenders. So, I cant say that Cabot failed to deal with his concerns. 
Cabots settlement offers were made on the basis that Mr H would pay them over no more 
than three months. I appreciate that Mr H was only able to offer token payments but this 
doesnt mean that Cabot had to agree to token payments on the discounted balance. When 
Cabot made the discounted offers, it also reminded Mr H that he could continue paying 
towards his current plan. This seems fair.
As far as I can see, Mr H raised his concerns about the accounts in June 2021. Cabot 
apologised that it originally treated these concerns as a dispute rather than a complaint and 
offered £100 to apologise. I appreciate Mr H wouldve heard back sooner had a complaint 
been logged at the time but Im satisfied Cabots offer of compensation was reasonable. 
Mr H says that nobody has given him full account balances or statements but I cant see that 
this formed part of his original complaint so I havent considered this further. 
Overall, I dont find that Cabot has treated Mr H unfairly. It has been allowing Mr H to make 
nominal monthly payments and hasnt applied interest to any of the debts. Cabot would like 
to work with Mr H to set up affordable payment arrangements. If Cabots customer operations team hasnt yet spoken with Mr H, I recommend that he contacts the team to 
discuss his accounts. If Mr H does this, I remind Cabot of its obligation to treat any offers 
that he might make, reasonably and fairly.
My final decision
My decision is that, if it hasnt already done so, Cabot Credit Management Group Limited 
should pay Mr H £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman