DRN-3711938
The complaint
Ms Y complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has treated her unfairly in relation to her 
request for a premium refund of her private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Ms Y had a private medical insurance Personal Health policy with AXA from 2017. The 
policy ran annually from 25 August every year.
In March/April 2020 private medical facilities were requisitioned to the NHS to provide 
support due to the demands of the Covid-19 pandemic. In January 2021 Ms Y contacted 
AXA saying as there was much less risk she would be able to make a claim AXA should 
refund her policy premiums in line with the reduced risk. In March 2020 at the start of the 
pandemic her husband had made the same request to AXA for his private medical policy 
and had received a refund of two months premiums immediately.
In January 2021 AXA responded to Ms Ys request. It said:
While non-urgent private treatments had been delayed some private services were 
still available and it had added new policy services and benefits as a result of the 
Covid-19 pandemic situation (which it detailed).
Although in the short term it expected to pay lower claims it expected to pay higher 
claims once private treatment that had been delayed could go ahead when private 
hospitals were less busy helping the NHS.
It made a customer promise that if the value of its health insurance claims in 2020 
and 2021 combined fell compared with 2019 because of the pandemic situation it 
would refund the difference to customers. At that time it expected to pay any refund 
by March 2022. The refund calculation would be verified by an appropriate 
independent auditor.
AXA didnt offer Ms Y an immediate refund of premium.
Ms Y complained to us represented by her husband. In summary her main points were:
AXA had treated her unfairly as it had treated her request differently to her husbands 
request for a premium refund.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) published guidance Product value and 
coronavirus: guidance for insurance firms said insurers should give premium 
rebates. Ms Ys representative said his motor insurer had refunded his motor 
insurance premiums immediately and AXA should do so for this policy.
AXA should assess whether the risk of claims had fallen in a given policy year and 
issue a refund to those customers affected. Having a future rebate meant customers 
had to keep their policy with AXA, rather than being able to move to another insurer.
She hadnt asked for or used the new policy benefits AXA provided.
She wanted a refund of premiums based on the reduced risk within the relevant 
policy year.
Our investigator said AXA had acted reasonably to Ms Y.
Ms Y disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. She added:
AXA should treat customers consistently particularly when it had more than one 
customer in a family as family members were likely to share knowledge with each 
other.
She hadnt heard from AXA about a rebate as at January 2022 which she thought 
was due to the continuing impact of the pandemic but she also thought the delay was 
unfair.
She didnt think there was a distinction between medical and car insurers for 
premium refund purposes.
AXAs proposed rebate approach was anti-competitive and she detailed why she 
thought so.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision so that the parties could respond for two reasons. First, our 
investigator considered this complaint and a complaint made by Ms Ys parents about their 
private health insurance with AXA as one complaint. As Ms Y has a different policy to her 
parents I made a separate decision about her complaint. Separating the complaints didnt 
affect the outcome of this decision. Second, thered been further developments in respect of 
AXAs customer promise.
I explained why I was intending to not uphold this complaint. I said:
This decision is about Ms Ys complaint that AXA treated her unfairly. When making my 
decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Ms Ys complaint 
Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of her contract with AXA as well as other 
relevant considerations such as the law and industry guidance including the FCA guidance 
she referred to.
Im intending to find that AXA treated Ms Y fairly. Ill explain why.
Ive seen Ms Ys comments about why she thinks its relevant that her representatives motor 
insurer gave him an immediate refund of some premiums due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Im 
satisfied that a motor insurers actions isnt relevant to this complaint which is about a 
completely different insurance product.
The terms and conditions of Ms Ys policy say her plan is for one year and that premiums 
must be paid for AXA to provide cover during that year. Insurance policies are intended to 
cover the risk of an uncertain event happening over the duration of the contract. An insurer is 
entitled to retain the benefit of the premium paid to cover the risk during that time, even if no 
successful claim has been made under the policy. The relevant periods for this complaint 
when AXA provided private medical insurance cover to Ms Y is from 25 August 2019 to 
24 August 2020 and 25 August 2020 to 24 August 2021. I dont have any evidence that Ms Y 
made any claims during either period, but even if she didnt AXA is entitled to retain the 
premiums it charged to cover the risk of her making a claim during those policy periods.
Ms Y says the risk of her making a claim on the policy was less due to there being restricted 
access to private treatment due to the Covid-19 pandemic. But the policy doesnt guarantee 
access to private healthcare and AXA doesnt own or operate private hospitals. AXA will pay 
for eligible private medical treatment under Ms Ys policy in certain circumstances, but AXA 
isnt responsible for the lack of availability of private hospitals to treat private patients during the pandemic. The terms and conditions of the policy dont entitle Ms Y to a premium refund 
if she was unable to access private treatment. And I wouldnt generally expect an insurer to 
refund premiums if a policyholder cant access or has delays in accessing private treatment 
for reasons outside of the insurers control, as happened here.
Also, Ms Y still had the benefit of cover under the policy. AXA could have preauthorised any 
necessary medical treatment for her to be carried out at a later date (so long as a valid policy 
remained in force). And AXA provided enhanced benefits to members during the pandemic. 
Ms Y said she had no need of those additional benefits but for the reasons Ive given above 
that doesnt mean AXA had to refund any premiums.
As our investigator explained, the FCAs Product value and coronavirus: guidance for 
insurance firms doesnt say insurers had to provide a premium refund/rebate to their 
policyholders.
Its not clear why in April 2020 AXA chose to offer to refund two months premiums to Ms Ys 
representative in relation to his own policy. AXA didnt need to do so and it told him it wasnt 
upholding his complaint. Its possible the timing of his complaint, at the start of the pandemic 
and before the FCA guidance was published, influenced AXAs response to give the refund 
as a goodwill gesture to him. But its decision to do so at that time doesnt mean AXAs 
treated Ms Y unfairly for the reasons Ive explained above. I dont think AXA needed to make 
a goodwill refund to her just because her husband had received a goodwill gesture for his 
policy at a different time.
Im satisfied that AXA was entitled to receive and keep Ms Ys premiums under the terms 
and conditions of the policy and on a fair and reasonable basis.
AXAs final response letter to Ms Y detailed how its customer promise rebate would work 
and theres further information on AXAs website. The rebate isnt a premium refund, its to 
be paid if AXA made an exceptional profit during January 2020 to December 2021 due to 
the reduced claims its members made during the pandemic. AXAs website details how the 
refund/rebate will be calculated and independently reviewed and verified by a named 
independent auditor.
AXA initially told Ms Y it expected to make any rebate that was due by March 2022 so it 
wasnt unreasonable that Ms Y hadnt heard from it in January 2022. AXAs website says 
why it waited until the end of 2021 to be able to assess the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic 
on claims and that it would begin issuing refunds/rebates from May 2022. I think that was a 
reasonable timescale in the circumstances.
Ms Y says AXA should have calculated any refund on a policy year basis. Its a business 
decision for AXA as to how it wants to approach any refund/rebate it chooses to give. But 
I think AXAs approach was a reasonable approach to take once it was able to establish the 
impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on claims.
Ms Y says AXAs stance is anti-competitive. Its not our statutory role to decide whether an 
insurers action is or isnt anti-competitive. In my experience insurers that are giving rebates 
on private medical insurance are using a similar approach to AXA.
AXAs website says individual health insurance members whose plan was in force between 
1 January 2020 and 7 April 2020 are eligible for a refund/rebate. So Ms Y is eligible. AXA 
says it made the refund/rebate payments from May 2022. Ms Y hasnt told us whether shes 
now received any refund/rebate. If she is unhappy about the amount she received, taking 
into account AXAs information on how it calculated the refund/rebate, she should complain to AXA. If they cant agree ultimately she can make a separate complaint to us on that 
matter.
Responses to my provisional decision
AXA and Ms Y didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As AXA and Ms Y didnt respond to my provisional decision Ive no reason to change my 
mind. For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings Im satisfied 
that AXA treated Ms Y fairly in relation to her request for a premium refund of her private 
medical insurance policy and I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman