DRN-2459662
The complaint
Ms B complained that AIG Life Limited (AIG) turned down her critical illness claim and 
declined to reinstate a life assurance policy.  
What happened
Ms B ran a limited company and in October 2017 took out two key person protection policies 
with AIG  a Business Critical Illness with Term Assurance policy, with a sum assured of 
£100,000 and a Relevant Life Insurance policy, with a sum assured of £400,000. 
Both policies provided level term cover for a period of 25 years. The policies were taken out 
through an Independent Financial Advisor (IFA).  
Ms B decided to wind up the limited company in December 2019. She contacted the IFA in 
the same month and enquired about switching both policies so that they were personal 
rather than business policies. The last premiums were paid on 5 December 2019. 
The limited company was dissolved on 24 December 2019. 
AIG wrote to Ms B at the address on file for the limited company on 30 December 2019 and 
advised that it was unable to collect the premiums for either policy because the direct debit 
had been cancelled. It said the cover would be cancelled if it didnt hear from Ms B within 30 
days of the first outstanding premium. AIG again wrote to Ms B about both policies on 
6 January 2020.
Ms B phoned AIG on 20 January 2020 to update her direct debit details to a personal 
account, so that she could carry on paying the premiums for both policies. She was advised 
this couldnt be done until her business policies had been transferred to personal plans. The 
documents she needed to complete in order to transfer the policies, including a deed of 
appointment document and direct debit mandate, were sent to her by email. 
Ms Bs IFA contacted AIG on 21 January 2020 and AIG said it had given Ms B the wrong 
information the previous day and that it wasnt possible to transfer one of the two policies, 
the Business Critical Illness policy, to a personal plan. 
AIG cancelled both policies on 3 February 2020 for non-payment of premiums. 
Ms B was, unfortunately, diagnosed with cancer in March 2020. She submitted a claim to 
AIG under the Business Critical Illness policy, which was declined. As a result, Ms B 
complained to AIG. 
AIG responded. It said Ms B was unhappy she was unable to claim on the Business Critical 
Illness policy and that she was unable to reinstate the Relevant Life policy. 
Looking at the Business Critical Illness plan, AIG said it had wrongly advised Ms B on 
20 January 2020 that she would be able to transfer this plan to a personal plan, when this 
wasnt the case. It said Ms Bs policy pack said: we need to be told if the person covered, as 
a keyperson or in connection with a business loan, leave the business as we will cancel the 
cover from this date. It said Ms Bs business had been dissolved and cover should have 
been cancelled from that date. 
Looking at the Relevant Life policy, AIG said it told Ms B on 20 January 2020 that she could 
transfer this to a personal plan and the relevant documents that needed to be completed 
were issued by email. It said it still hadnt received the completed forms back. In addition, the 
policy had three outstanding payments, with the fourth payment outstanding on 1 April 2020. 
And AIG said this means it would usually require a declaration of health to be completed.  
AIG said it had spoken to its underwriting department regarding Ms Bs recent diagnosis and 
they confirmed that the original policy terms would not be offered to Ms B, which meant it 
was unable to reinstate the Relevant Life policy. It said the policy pack stated: if we cancel a 
cover because a premium is not paid, the owner of the cover can ask us to restart it. 
They can do this at any time up to six months after the date of the first missed premium. We 
will have no obligation to restart a cover and if the owner of the cover asks us to do this, we 
will decide at our discretion if we are willing to restart the cover. So AIG said Ms Bs 
diagnosis meant it wont reinstate the Relevant Life policy. 
Ms B was unhappy with AIGs response and so complained to this service. Ms B said she 
was misinformed by AIG about whether she could transfer the Business Critical Illness policy 
into a personal policy. Ms B said she was left without insurance cover when she received her 
cancer diagnosis. She considers this was maladministration on the part of AIG and she 
would like to be compensated for the full amount of the financial loss. 
Ms B also said she feels its unfair of AIG to decline her claim on the basis that the terms 
and conditions were sent to her in 2017. She said nowhere in the welcome letter sent to her 
does it request that she read the full policy documentation and nor does it provide any 
warning of the implications of not checking the documents. 
Ms B said if shed been made aware that she couldnt transfer the Business Critical Illness 
policy, then she would have delayed winding up the limited company so that she could 
decide on the best course of action while keeping the critical illness cover in place. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said that AIG acted in line with its terms and 
conditions and so didnt uphold Ms Bs complaint. 
Ms B didnt agree with what our investigator said and so this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint
I should emphasise that while Ive taken note of all the arguments and comments made, 
Ive limited my response to the issues I consider to be central to this complaint. That is to 
say whether AIG acted fairly when it turned down Ms Bs claim on the Business Critical 
Illness policy and declined to reinstate the Relevant Life policy. 
I also want to be clear that this decision deals only with the complaint against AIG. Ms B 
has also made a complaint against her IFA, and this is being dealt with separately. 
Transfer of the policies from business to personal I first of all looked at whether AIG acted fairly and in line with its own terms and conditions 
when it told Ms B that it could transfer the Relevant Life policy into her name, but not the 
Business Critical Illness policy.
Looking first at the Relevant Life policy, Ive seen the terms and conditions, and these say 
that ownership of the policy can be transferred from the business, which is the owner of the 
policy, to an employee. So this policy can be moved from a business to a personal policy. 
The relevant term is: 
The person covered can request to continue the insurance in their sole name if they leave 
the employment of the business owning this AIG Relevant Life Insurance. This will not 
require further medical evidence or underwriting the person covered will have 90 days to 
request to continue the cover. Any such request will only be considered as long as the 
premiums are up to date.
Looking now at the Business Critical Illness policy, the terms and conditions, which are 
different to the terms and conditions for the Relevant Life policy, show that changes can only 
be made under certain circumstances, and this doesnt include moving the policy from a 
business to a personal plan. I also checked the Key Facts document in relation to the 
Business Critical Illness policy and this also lists the changes that can be made to this 
particular policy. And this document doesnt say that the policy can be moved to a personal 
plan. 
So Im satisfied AIG acted in line with its own terms and conditions and provided Ms B with 
correct information when it told her she could transfer the Relevant Life policy to a personal 
plan in her own name, but that the Business Critical Illness policy could not be transferred. 
I realise that AIG initially incorrectly told Ms B that both plans could be transferred, but I can 
see it rectified this error really very quickly  the following day  so I dont think Ms B was 
placed at any sort of disadvantage by thinking for a short period of time that changes could 
be made to both policies. So Im satisfied that from 21 January 2020 onwards, AIG told Ms B 
she could no longer rely on this policy to cover her in the event of her suffering a critical 
illness. It also told her that if she wanted this cover she would have to take steps to take out 
a new policy either with AIG or with another provider.  
Cancellation of the policies 
I understand that the last premium paid for both policies was 5 December 2019 and both 
policies were cancelled on 3 February 2020 because of non-payment of premiums. I can 
also see that the owner of the two policies  the limited company  ceased to exist on 
24 December 2019. 
So from what I can see, the limited company paid the last premium in relation to the policies 
before it was wound up in December 2019. And Ms B made enquiries with AIG about 
transferring both policies to her name on 20 January 2019. Ms B was fully aware the 
premiums were no longer being paid from the business bank account. 
Looking first at the Business Critical Illness policy, for the reasons outlined above, Ms B 
wasnt able to transfer this policy into her name. And so when the limited company ceased to 
exist, the policy also ended. Given what Ive already said about AIG acting fairly when it 
declined to transfer this policy, Im satisfied it also acted fairly when it cancelled it in 
February 2020. Premiums hadnt been paid and could no longer be paid, because the limited 
company ceased to exist. So AIGs only option was to cancel it. Looking at the Relevant Life policy, the terms and conditions say that if premiums arent paid 
for more than 30 days from the date they were due to be collected, then AIG can cancel the 
cover. And Ms B was fully aware that the premiums werent paid, as she cancelled the direct 
debit. In addition, AIG wrote to Ms B twice, about each policy, to let her know they would be 
cancelled. Ms B indicated on 20 January 2020 that she wanted to continue with this policy, 
and she could have done that, but she didnt complete the required paperwork. This meant 
premiums were not paid and Ms B didnt arrange for the policy to be transferred to her own 
name. So Im satisfied AIG acted fairly when it cancelled the Relevant Life policy. 
Declining the claim
Ms B made a claim under the Business Critical illness policy in March 2020, following her 
diagnosis. AIG turned down the claim.  
Ive already decided that AIG acted fairly and in line with its own terms and conditions when 
it said the Business Critical Illness policy couldnt be transferred into a personal plan for 
Ms B. And that it acted fairly when it cancelled the policy for non-payment of premiums in 
February 2020. Although the policy wasnt cancelled until February 2020, the terms and 
conditions would have allowed AIG to cancel it at the point in time that the limited company 
ceased to exist, which was 24 December 2019. 
Although I have a great deal of sympathy for Ms B, I am satisfied that as there was no critical 
illness policy in place in March 2020 when Ms B submitted her claim, AIG was not obliged to 
pay the claim. 
Declining to restart the life cover
As already outlined, Ms B had the right to transfer the Relevant Life policy into her own 
name once her employment with the limited company ceased. Although AIG initially sent the 
necessary paperwork to Ms B to allow her to start the process of moving this policy into her 
own name, Ms B did not take steps to reinstate it until after her diagnosis. AIG then said it 
was not willing to reinstate the policy on the same terms. 
Its important for Ms B to understand that once a policy is cancelled, AIG is not obliged to 
reinstate it. And its usual for a business to agree to reinstate only on the same terms. AIG is 
allowed to consider what, if anything, has changed with Ms Bs lifestyle and health during the 
period of time between the policy ending and Ms Bs request to reinstate it, in order to see if 
it is willing to offer the same terms. 
The relevant term in the policy is:
If we cancel a cover because a premium is not paid, the owner of the cover can ask us to 
restart it. They can do this at any time up to six months after the date of the first missed 
premium. We will have no obligation to restart a cover and if the owner of the cover asks us 
to do this, we will decide at our discretion if we are willing to restart the cover. If we are, we 
will tell them what we need in order to start the cover and they must clear any premium 
arrears. There may be circumstances when we reserve the right not to restart a cover. If this 
happens, we will explain our decision.
Ms B, unfortunately, didnt take steps to reinstate the policy before her diagnosis and this 
means AIG was allowed to take the diagnosis into consideration when making a decision 
about whether to reinstate the policy. But as Ms Bs health had changed between the policy 
being cancelled and steps being taken to reinstate it, AIG decided it wasnt willing to offer the 
same terms and so declined to reinstate the policy. And while I understand that Ms B will be 
disappointed by this, I dont think AIG has acted unfairly.Ms B was also concerned that she wasnt told to read the documentation sent to her when 
she took the policies out. So she said she didnt know what she could and couldnt do in 
terms of transferring either policy. The documentation sent to Ms B will have detailed the 
agreement she entered into with AIG and I take the view that its up to Ms B to ensure she 
reads and understands this agreement. And while there are times that Id expect a business 
to draw attention to significant terms within an agreement, I think the inclusion of this 
particular term in the general terms and conditions was sufficient.  
I know my decision will disappoint Ms B but I could only ask AIG to do something different if I 
thought it had done something wrong. And Im satisfied that it hasnt. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman