DRN-3292108
The complaint
Mrs S complained about how QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) has dealt with settling a claim under her 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs S made a claim to QIC for storm damage to her home. QIC declined the claim as it 
didnt identify damage that was the result of a storm. When Mrs S complained to this service, 
an ombudsman upheld the complaint and said QIC should settle the claim for storm damage 
in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
QIC sent a new surveyor to assess the damage. QIC then told Mrs S it needed to send a 
third surveyor to assess the scope of the damage. Mrs S said she didnt want a third 
surveyor to visit. She said she had provided quotes for the work to be carried out, but QIC 
hadnt considered them.
When QIC replied to Mrs Ss complaint, it said it had reviewed the quotes internally but that it 
felt they included work that wasnt covered by the claim. It was also of the view that the cost 
to carry out the work was excessive. As it had a contractor in the area that could undertake 
the work, it was able to settle the claim for the amount it would have cost QIC to carry out 
the work. It said a surveyor needed to visit the property in order to accurately scope for the 
repairs.
When Mrs S complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
it was reasonable for QIC to want to send a surveyor to assess the scope and costs of the 
works. As QIC had been prevented from visiting, he didnt think it would be fair to say it was 
delaying the claim.
As Mrs S didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. I will explain why.
My decision is only considering what has happened since the previous ombudsmans 
decision that QIC should settle the storm claim in line with the remaining policy terms and 
conditions.
Following that decision, QIC arranged for another surveyor to visit. Im aware Mrs S has said 
that surveyor told her there was no point looking at the roof months later and when 
temporary repairs had already been carried out and that he had said the quote for the work 
was a modest assessment. Ive also looked at what the surveyor said in his report. This 
included:
There is an old fashioned liquid style solar panel on the roof, which l have never come 
across before, and am unable to advise how much, if claim is covered, it could cost to 
remove this and also if it would/would not become damaged during movement.

Unable to give an accurate cost of repairs due to the issue over the solar panel, as it is a 
specialist issue
QIC reviewed the report internally and decided an in-house surveyor needed to visit the 
property in order to accurately scope the works and the costs involved. Im aware Mrs S had 
provided a quote for the work. But I wouldnt expect QIC to simply settle based on the quote 
when there were outstanding questions about the scope of the works and the costs involved. 
QIC said it needed to send another surveyor to assess these issues. In the circumstances, I 
think that was reasonable.
I understand Mrs S has now had work carried out on her roof. During the works, further 
damage was found. This service provided QIC with photos of the damage. QIC has said it 
will consider the invoice for the works. However, Mrs S hasnt provided the invoice. It is for 
Mrs S to decide if she wishes to provide the invoice so QIC can consider the scope of works 
and costs that should be covered as part of the claim. If Mrs S provides the invoice and is 
then unhappy with the decision QIC makes about the settlement, she would need to raise a 
new complaint with QIC.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman