DRN-2673797
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F took out a PPI policy with a joint mortgage in 1979. 
Mr and Mrs F paid a monthly amount of £0.95 for the policy, which would have provided a 
monthly benefit in the event of a valid claim for sickness or involuntarily redundancy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in provisionally deciding Mr and Mrs Fs case. Having done so, I 
dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint and Ill explain why.
Santander had to get Mr and Mrs Fs consent before it added PPI to their account. 
Santander says it would have done this, but Mr and Mrs F say they were told they had to 
have to it. Mr and Mrs F have provided a copy of a document which shows security in the 
form of insurance was required for an advance they took out in 1977  they say this 
demonstrates the PPI policy was a condition of the mortgage. 
I understand why Mr and Mrs F might think this, but even if Santander required Mr and Mrs F 
to take the policy out in order to obtain their mortgage  that doesnt mean the policy was 
mis-sold. A business is entitled to make protection a condition of any lending it offers and its 
up to the customer to decide whether they want to proceed on the terms offered or not. If 
Mr and Mrs F were required to take the policy and chose not to have it, they would have 
needed to seek a different lender to provide their mortgage. 
That said, the evidence Mr and Mrs F have provided concerns a life insurance policy 
covering Mr F, which I have not considered as part of this complaint. But based on the 
documents Mr and Mrs F have provided  it looks like any conditions were made clear in the 
paperwork Santander provided during its sales. And Santander has provided another part of 
the document, which shows other options were available, but Mr and Mrs F chose the option 
that required life insurance. So I think its more likely than not Santander would have done 
the same for the sale in 1979, and Mr and Mrs F would have known whether the PPI they 
took was a condition of their mortgage or an optional product when they agreed to take it 
out.
Santander has considered the case on the basis it recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs F. 
This puts more responsibility on Santander  it means it had to check the policy was suitable 
for them. So, Ive considered the case on the same basis, and having done so, Ive found the 
policy appears to have been suitable for them. 
The benefit amount is unknown and its unclear whether the policy covered both Mr and 
Mrs F or just Mr F, so Ive considered both of their circumstances below. 
Mr and Mrs F were eligible for the policy and they dont seem to have been affected by any 
of the terms which might have made it harder for them to claim, such as having unusual 
employment circumstances or pre-existing medical conditions. 
Mr F says he was entitled to a portion of his salary as sick pay as well as statutory sick pay. 
And Mrs F says she was entitled to six months full pay, followed by six months half pay 
from her employer if she was too unwell to work. Mr and Mrs F have also said they had 
some savings they could have used. 
Ive thought about the other means Mr and Mrs F had at the time of sale, but I dont think this 
means the policy wasnt right for them. The policy would have paid out in addition to Mr and 
Mrs Fs employee benefits and potentially for a much longer period. Mr and Mrs F could 
have made repeat claims subject to a requalification period. And the policy would have 
allowed Mr and Mrs F to use their savings for other financial commitments at what could be 
a difficult time. So, I think the policy could have been useful to Mr and Mrs F.
I havent seen anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs F at the time it 
was taken. And it could have been cancelled at any time without penalty. So, taking 
everything into account, I dont think Santander was wrong to recommend the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs F.
Its possible Santander didnt give Mr and Mrs F all of the other information they needed  I 
dont know if the PPI cost and benefits were made clear. But Mr and Mrs F chose to take out 
the cover when they didnt have to, so they seem to have wanted it.
The mortgage was a big and long-term commitment, secured against Mr and Mrs Fs home. 
And the repercussions of not keeping up with repayments could have been serious. So, I 
think the policy could have been useful to Mr and Mrs F and I dont think they lost out 
because of anything Santander did wrong. 
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman