DRN-3844855
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Arrow Global Limited did not honour an agreed settlement.
What happened
This complaint surrounds a defaulted credit card account, which was sold to Arrow in 2016.
In July 2020, Mr C and Arrow agreed a settlement arrangement, where Mr C would pay six 
instalments of £116.03 to bring the account to a close.
Mr C made all the payments on time. However, Arrow assigned some to a different closed 
account, and Arrow then returned a payment to Mr C. Arrow then escalated things, arguing 
that Mr C broke the arrangement as a payment had been returned. They said it was his fault 
the payment had been returned, as hed not put his account reference on it. They continued 
to pursue Mr C for the account, including attempting to have him taken to court, though the 
court action did not ultimately go through.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. They found that 
Arrow were fine allocating Mr Cs other payments to him without the reference number, so 
their argument wasnt valid. And it shouldve been clear which account he was paying, given 
he'd just made the arrangement for the open one, and the other one was closed. They 
recommended that Arrow pay Mr C £250 compensation.
Arrow didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Arrow and Mr C a provisional decision on 21 November 2022, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I agree with our investigator that Arrow got things wrong 
here, though I think they need to do something a bit different to put it right.
Ive listened to Mr Cs calls where he set up the settlement arrangement, and I can see it 
was also confirmed by email. Then I can see from Mr Cs statements that he made all the 
agreed payments on time, to fulfil the settlement.
While Mr C should have ideally put his account reference on his payments, I can see that 
Arrow were perfectly capable of recognising who was paying them, as they did for all but one 
payment. Indeed, their own notes show theyre not really sure why they returned a payment. 
It was the same amount, from the same account, owned by the same person as all the prior 
payments theyd accepted right before.
Arrow were also clearly capable of assigning these payments to the right account, which 
I can see is the case from the ones they did correctly assign. Further, this credit card debt 
was Mr Cs only open account with Arrow. It should have been obvious that he was paying 
his only outstanding debt, for which hed just agreed a settlement at those exact amounts, 
and not a closed account for which no payments were due. It was not reasonable for Arrow 
to have thought he was paying the closed account, or to have assigned the payments there.
It also looks like Arrow did not properly notify Mr C that they felt his settlement arrangement 
had fallen through, nor did they give him a proper chance to rectify the returned payment 
before they escalated things.
So while I accept that Mr C should have included the account reference on his payments, 
I find that the issue was caused more by Arrows errors than by any error of Mr Cs.
And the fact remains that Mr C clearly intended to pay his debt, having spoken to Arrow at 
length to arrange the settlement, and having made every single payment on time. The main 
reason the payments didnt all get through is because Arrow mis-allocated them.
If things had gone as they should have, the debt would have been cleared in January 2021. 
And Mr C would have been saved a good deal of stress and upset  Arrow even tried to 
have him taken to court, and were almost two years on and the issue is only truly being 
resolved now. Further, Mr Cs credit file would have looked better in the time before the debt 
fell off it in June 2021. I will clarify here that after the default became over six years old in 
June 2021, the account disappeared from Mr Cs credit file and could not affect his credit 
scoring anymore  lenders cant see it. So he need not worry about it anymore in that sense.
But otherwise, that all needs to be put right. And while I accept that Arrow lost out on the 
£116.03 that they returned, the compensation Id award for Mr Cs distress and 
inconvenience is significantly larger than that. So I think the fair thing to do is to effectively 
offset that compensation against the £116.03 that was left. That means Arrow should write 
off and close that account, then pay Mr C the additional amount that I award on top. I also 
think Arrow should make sure that the other account is definitely written off and closed, in 
order that it doesnt affect Mr C any further.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
5 December 2022. But neither Mr C nor Arrow sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.
Putting things right
I direct Arrow Global Limited to:
Write off and close the credit card account in question;Make sure that the other account is definitely written off and closed, such that it does 
not receive any further payments, and such that Mr C is not contacted about it any 
further; and-
Pay Mr C an additional £200 compensation directly, on top of the amount written off.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint, and direct Arrow Global Limited to put things right in the way I set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman