DRN-2901028
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited (BGIL) during 
claims he made under his Central Heating insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B had Central Heating cover with BGIL for many years. He experienced several faults 
with his boiler but, although BGIL repaired them each time, Mr B doesnt think the service it 
provided was reasonable. 
Mr B complained to BGIL about the following points:
He hadnt received his renewal and contract details.
His claim wasnt treated as a priority.
He wasnt given any loyalty incentives.
BGIL asked for payment of his excess in a threatening tone.
Overall poor communication and customer service.
BGIL removed a £99 charge so Mr B didnt need to pay an excess fee for a repeat fault, but 
it didnt think it had done anything wrong in respect of the service it provided.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. She thought BGIL had carried out repairs in 
line with the terms of the policy and she didnt think there had been any significant customer 
service shortfalls.
Mr B didnt agree. He repeated many of his complaint points; in particular he didnt think his 
concerns about his contract and priority service had been fairly addressed.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr B will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint for broadly 
the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain.
Firstly, Im aware that Mr B has a number of concerns about matters such as his energy 
supply bills and Warm Home Discount. Theyre matters which he would need to raise with 
his energy supplier  the company which bills him for the gas and electricity hes used.
Also, there are other issues which Mr B has complained about in relation to regulatory 
matters. I understand that hes since been given contact details for the Financial Conduct 
Authority and Ofgem, the relevant regulators for the issues he raised.
So, to be clear, my role is to look at Mr Bs complaint about the way BGIL handled his 
claims, and whether it treated him fairly and reasonably under the terms of his Central 
Heating cover. While I wont mention every single point or piece of evidence, and our rules 
dont require me to, Ive taken everything into consideration in reaching my decision. Ive 
split the issues into four key headings, for ease.
Renewal letter 
Mr B says he didnt receive his renewal letter and HomeCare agreement for his 2020 
renewal. BGIL provided a copy of the renewal notice, dated September 2020 and addressed 
to Mr B correctly.
While I understand Mr B doesnt think thats evidence BGIL sent the letter, I have no reason 
to doubt that it generated and sent the letter showing on its system. Mr B wants proof that 
BGIL delivered the letter to him. Without sending everything by recorded delivery, BGIL 
wouldnt have proof, and I dont think its reasonable to expect it to. It would be prohibitively 
expensive to track all correspondence sent out in that manner. Mr B hasnt said he didnt 
receive the letters in previous years, and as a longstanding customer, I think its reasonable 
that he wouldve known the renewal process. 
I also note Mr B says he didnt know he was in contract with BGIL and only found out when 
he reported his boiler fault. But, Mr B reported the fault to BGIL after his renewal date, which 
suggests that even if not aware his cover had renewed, he mustve expected cover to be in 
place. So, I cant fairly say that he was disadvantaged.
 
Overall, Im satisfied that BGIL sent the renewal letter to Mr B and I dont think it did anything 
wrong here.
Priority treatment
Mr B says his boiler has ongoing faults but BGIL hasnt provided a priority service even 
though he registered as a vulnerable customer. Ive looked at the work log and I can see that 
each time BGIL attended, it left his boiler in working order. But Mr B doesnt seem to be 
complaining about the actual repairs, rather its delays completing them. I can see that BGIL 
told Mr B each year at renewal that parts arent readily available for his boiler anymore, 
given its age. So, I dont think its unreasonable that BGIL has taken a few days to complete 
a repair, having first sourced parts for a boiler more than 30 years old, and I dont think it 
means BGIL hasnt treated Mr Bs boiler fault as a priority.
However, I should point out that BGIL can only offer its priority service to vulnerable 
customers if its made aware of their situation. While Mr B says he told BGIL, the references 
he makes to advice he was given about Warm Home Discount lead me to think that he may 
have notified his energy supplier rather than BGIL. I understand hes moved his custom to 
another company now, but if Mr B wants to be registered for priority services, hed need to 
let his insurance provider know. Even so, availability of parts for his boiler will still be limited 
and any future repairs may still take a few days. 
Overall, I havent seen anything here to suggest that BGIL failed to provide the appropriate 
level of service for Mr B in the circumstances.
Loyalty incentives
Mr B complained that, despite having cover with BGIL since his boiler was installed in 1987, 
he hasnt received any loyalty incentives. I cant require BGIL to offer any sort of loyalty 
incentive. I can look at whether it has increased the price unreasonably over the years if Mr 
B renewed automatically, but thats not what hes said. Ive looked to make sure that BGIL 
has told Mr B he may get cheaper cover elsewhere and I can see that it has. So, he was 
always free to move to another provider if loyalty incentives mattered to him. I cant say that BGIL has done anything wrong here in offering a renewal price, broadly similar to its 
published price, without offering any loyalty incentives.
Communication
Mr B is unhappy with the way BGIL invites communication from its customers, and he wasnt 
happy with the tone of BGILs letter asking for payment of the policy excess. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for BGIL to ask for payment of an outstanding policy excess 
fee, and I havent seen any evidence of a threatening tone. I know Mr B is unhappy with the 
methods BGIL uses for communication, and he thinks there should be more options, 
including emails and template agreements on its website. I cant tell BGIL what to include on 
its website, and if there are regulatory requirements thats not for me to decide. However, I 
can see that it does publish a copy of the terms and conditions of its agreements, so I cant 
say that they werent available to Mr B. And I havent seen any evidence that Mr B 
specifically asked BGIL not to contact him by phone. Therefore, I dont think BGIL has done 
anything wrong by communicating with Mr B in the way that it has.
Overall, I think that much of what made Mr B unhappy relates to regulatory matters or his 
energy supplier, and its not within my remit to address those issues. For the matters that I 
have been able to consider, here, Im satisfied that BGIL sent the renewal letter to Mr B, 
whether or not he received it, and provided a repair service in line with the terms of the 
policy. I dont think theres anything BGIL needs to put right.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman