DRN-3803216
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Dynamo Cover Limited mis-sold a Roadside Assistance and 
Recovery policy to him. 
What happened
In 2019 Mr C bought a Roadside Assistance and Recovery policy with Dynamo Cover 
Limited which he says provided nationwide recovery to his home address. Mr C renewed his 
policy with an administrator on behalf of Dynamo each year. 
In April 2022 Mr C broke down approximately 170 miles from home and contacted Dynamo 
for assistance. Dynamo said it wouldnt provide recovery to his home address as the policy 
cover he had limited recovery to within 20 miles of his home address. 
Mr C thought he had the same level of cover as hed originally purchased in 2019, which 
was nationwide recovery. Mr C said it was nearly 5pm when he found out he wasnt covered. 
He said he was quoted £430 to pay for recovery. So he contacted local garages and found 
one that would take his car for repairs. He said he had to find accommodation for him and 
his son to stay in and make alternative work arrangements for the following day. 
Mr C complained to Dynamo. He thought Dynamo should have highlighted to him the 
change in the geographical limits for recovery, given the significance of the change. 
Mr C wanted Dynamo to cover his losses and compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Mr C wanted Dynamo to provide a refund for the premium hed paid 
since March 2020 as this is when he discovered the level of cover under the policy had 
significantly reduced and was no longer suitable for his needs. 
Dynamo didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said it had advised Mr C to check the policy was 
still suitable for his needs at each renewal. It said in 2022 it could no longer offer Mr C the 
same policy as before. Dynamo said that as it provided the policy wording, it was for Mr C to 
check the policy met his needs and to contact it before renewal if the product it offered was 
no longer suitable. As it had no record of Mr C contacting it, Dynamo said it had acted 
correctly.
Dynamo said it couldnt consider Mr Cs losses - other than his request for reimbursement of 
overnight accommodation costs and he could  make a claim for this. 
Mr C didnt agree and asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator thought Dynamo 
had done enough at renewal to make Mr C aware of the changed features of the product. 
Mr C didnt agree. In summary he believes Dynamo should have done more to make him 
aware of the significant change in cover. So he asked for an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 11 October 2022 as I intended to uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
I didnt think Dynamo had done enough at renewal when the product changed to highlight to 
Mr C a significant reduction in the level of cover. And I found that although the renewal 
product provided a similar level of cover to what Mr C previously had, Dynamo had arranged 
for the cover for Mr C to be set at a much lower level, but for a similar price to what Mr C had 
paid the year before. I thought this was misleading of Dynamo.
I provisionally decided to ask Dynamo to do the following:
 Meet Mr Cs claim under the policy in line with the level of cover described as 
National Plus/Personal Plus - Roadside Assistance & Recovery, Nationwide 
Recovery and Home Assist under the new 2022 policy as this most closely matched 
Mr Cs demands and needs which hadnt changed - but that Dynamo shouldnt 
charge Mr C any additional premium for this level of cover.
 Pay Mr C £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr C accepted my provisional decision. 
Dynamo didnt agree. It provided a detailed response which Ive addressed in my findings 
below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings are as I set out in my provisional findings, but with Dynamos responses and my 
conclusions. 
When Mr C bought his policy in 2019, he said he opted for national recovery. And he said 
hed previously made a successful claim for recovery under a previous product while away 
from home. 
In 2021 - according to the renewal notice provided by Mr C - Dynamo provided a policy 
which provided National cover. In its response to Mr Cs complaint, Dynamo said that 
although Mr Cs online portal described the policy he had from 2021 and 2022 as a UK 
Recovery + policy, it provided a renewal reminder in 2021 describing the product as 
National.
I dont have a copy of the policy wording for the product Dynamo provided for Mr C at 
renewal in 2021. From what Ive seen, I dont think its clear as to what level of cover Mr C 
had and if this had changed significantly from the cover he had bought in 2019 and 2020. 
In response to my provisional decision, Dynamo says;
The level of cover is denoted on the customers Schedule of Insurance and lines up 
with the respective section of the policy wording. UK Recovery + is visibly different 
to National, so had Mr C taken the time to review the renewal offering he would 
have seen the cover level is different. Mr C has stated to the Ombudsman Service 
that he instead believed it to be the same level of cover, but did not check with us  
we cannot be held liable with someone proceeding based on an assumption instead 
of checking.
Ive checked Dynamos policy wording and it provides a definition for UK as England, 
Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. 
But it doesnt provide a definition of what it means by National. It provides a definition for 
Nationwide Recovery but this doesnt define what it means by Nationwide geographically. 
And I think that any reasonable customer would in any event take the meaning of the words 
National or Nationwide to have geographical cover for the whole of the country. 
Businesses are required to highlight to a customer at renewal if the product being offered 
provides significantly different cover to the customers existing cover. The Financial Conduct 
Authoritys insurance regulations state (at ICOBS 6.1.5) :(1) A firm must ensure that a customer is given appropriate information about a 
policy in good time and in a comprehensible form so that the customer can make an 
informed decision about the arrangements proposed.
With that in mind, Ive looked at what Dynamo said at renewal in 2022. It wrote:
Making the assumption that your details have not changed your renewal quote is: 
£34.38.
Your Premium last year was: £37.49
A Summary of your cover is below:.
Policy Product: UK Recovery +
Your Demands and Needs are those of an Individual who has need for Breakdown 
Insurance. We do not give you advice as to whether this product is suitable for 
meeting your specific Demands and Needs; you must therefore carefully read the 
Policy Summary, and particularly the section on exclusions and limitations, to 
determine whether this product is right for you. It is possible your product or terms 
may have changed within the last 12 months including changes to either your insurer, 
the terms & conditions, or both.
Ive looked at the Policy Summary wording provided at renewal in 2022 and Ive been unable 
to find any levels of cover to match UK Recovery + as set out in the renewal notice. 
The policy product is titled Dynamo Cover Breakdown Cover.
The titles for the available levels of cover read as follows:
National One - Roadside Assistance & Local, Nationwide Recovery and Home 
Assist
Standard Recovery - Roadside Assistance & Local Recovery
Recovery Plus - Roadside Assistance & Local Recovery and Home Assist 
and;
National Plus/Personal Plus - Roadside Assistance & Recovery, Nationwide 
Recovery and Home Assist
The policy gives the following definitions:
Territorial Limits (UK): The United Kingdom, the Isle of Man and (for residents only) 
the Channel Islands.
and; 
Nationwide Recovery: If your vehicle cannot be repaired within the same working 
day, we will arrange to transport your vehicle, you and the passengers to be 
transported to your home address.
In my provisional decision I said my understanding from reading the levels of cover available 
is that Standard Recovery - Roadside Assistance & Local Recovery appears to be the only 
level of cover that is restricted to recovery within a 20 mile radius. I can see no indication 
that the plus levels of cover have the same limit. But this is the restriction which Dynamo 
applied when Mr C sought assistance under the policy. 
In response, Dynamo says:
Please refer to page 6 of the attached policy wording that was also supplied with the 
case file request.
As you will see here, Recovery Plus is defined as:If you have opted and paid for Recovery Plus, this includes all the same 
benefits as the Standard recovery, with the addition of home assist and the 
benefits of Alternative Transport, misfuelling cover and Emergency Overnight 
Accommodation
If you refer to Standard Recovery definition on the page before as this states to do, 
it defines Standard Recovery as:
In the event of a breakdown which occurs within the territorial limits (UK), 
and more than 3/4 mile from your home address, the claims administrator will 
send help to the scene of the breakdown and arrange to pay callout fees and 
mileage charges needed to repair or assist with the vehicle.
If, in the opinion of the roadside agent they are unable to repair the vehicle at 
the roadside within 60 minutes the claims administrator will assist in the 
following way: -
Either:
 Arrange and pay for your vehicle, you and the passengers to be recovered 
to the nearest suitable garage which can undertake the repair provided this is 
20 miles or less from the scene of the breakdown If the above is not possible 
at the time, or, the repair  cannot be made within the same working day, we 
will arrange for your vehicle, you and the passengers to be transported to 
your home or intended destination provided this is 20 miles or less from the 
scene of the breakdown
Any recovery must take place at the same time as the initial callout otherwise 
you will have to pay for subsequent callout charges.
As such, the Recovery Plus section of the wording informs you that it provides the 
same level of cover as Standard Recovery with the addition of home assist and the 
benefits of Alternative Transport, misfuelling cover and Emergency Overnight 
Accommodation.
If there is uncertainty regarding the difference between + and plus, these both 
mean the same things as + is plus and plus is + - + is read in this context as 
plus and if the customer is unsure as to what + meant, they could have raised this 
with us but this was not done. Dynamo Cover Ltd is the retail broker and 
administrator, we are not the insurer who writes the policy wording. The insurer has 
their own legal and compliance team that these wordings go through to ensure 
theyre fit for purpose before being given to brokers to sell the product. If it is believed 
that theres a level of uncertainty with this, this is not something thats within Dynamo 
Cover Ltds remit to control.
As mentioned above, the UK Recovery + product is defined in the wording as: If you 
have opted and paid for Recovery Plus, this includes all the same benefits as the 
Standard recovery, with the addition of home assist and the benefits of Alternative 
Transport, misfuelling cover and Emergency Overnight Accommodation. Therefore, 
Standard Recovery is not the only cover level that mentioned the mileage restriction. 
This mileage limit was also not applied by Dynamo Cover Ltd as the retail broker of 
the policy, but by Call Assist Ltd who are the insurer-appointed claims handler and 
assist in accordance with the policy wording.
I agree with Dynamo that Standard Recovery isnt the only cover level mentioned with a 
mileage restriction. 
But Dynamo described the level of cover Mr C had in the summary at renewal as UK 
Recovery Plus - not Recovery Plus which is limited geographically to 20 miles. I find it misleading to add UK in the title of the renewal cover notice as it clearly doesnt match the 
level of cover under the policy Dynamo assigned to Mr C. 
Mr C didnt tell Dynamo his requirements had changed - but Dynamo significantly changed 
the level of cover it offered at renewal without highlighting this to ensure it was brought to Mr 
Cs attention. 
So the fact remains that it wasnt clear to Mr C that the level of cover Dynamo arranged at 
renewal was significantly reduced. The titles for cover in the policy wording do not include 
UK as Dynamo referred to in its renewal cover letter. 
And I think the phrase Dynamo wrote in the renewal cover letter; Making the assumption 
that your details have not changed is significant here. Mr C didnt tell Dynamo his details 
had changed - but Dynamo significantly changed the level of cover without adequately 
highlighting the change to Mr C at renewal. 
In my provisional decision I said I was unable to find where the significant reduction in the 
geographical distance was highlighted at all to Mr C. I think the fact that the title of the 
product in the renewal notice included a + symbol gave the impression that Mr C had plus 
cover in any event. In other words, having a wider level of cover - so doesnt suggest such a 
limited geographical restriction for recovery to 20 miles. 
In response, Dynamo says:
Mr C was notified in his renewal reminder, which I can see the Ombudsman has 
also quoted in their response: Your Demands and Needs are those of an Individual 
who has need for Breakdown Insurance. We do not give you advice as to whether 
this product is suitable for meeting your specific Demands and Needs; you must 
therefore carefully read the Policy Summary, and particularly the section on 
exclusions and limitations, to determine whether this product is right for you. It is 
possible your product or terms may have changed within the last 12 months including 
changes to either your insurer, the terms & conditions, or both.. 
How the insurer names their products is not up to us and Mr C was provided with 
access to the policy wording prior to the renewal going through Mr C was given 
access to his renewal documentation prior to the renewal going through and he is 
required to check these to ensure that the product still suits his needs as we do not 
provide advice as to whether a product is suitable for an individual. Mr C appears 
aware of his needs, so could have checked appropriately to ensure that the cover 
level being offered still met them and he could have questioned any aspect of cover 
with us and cancelled it if he decided it no longer met his needs.
From reading the policy its clear a level of cover which was very similar - if not the same - as 
Mr C asked for in 2019 was available. However, Dynamo offered renewal to Mr C at a similar 
price to the premium Mr C paid in 2021 but with a significantly lower level of cover. I dont 
think it was fair for Dynamo to do this without clearly setting out its intention. 
Dynamo says in response;
Dynamo Cover Ltd provided a renewal invite of the product that was available to 
offer for Mr C policy spanning 2022  2023 as there was a change in underwriter 
from his previous cover. I also feel that the statement I dont think it was fair for 
Dynamo to do this without clearly setting out its intention alludes to us intentionally 
looking to provide Mr C with a lower level of cover to disadvantage him, which is 
certainly not the case. Dynamo Cover Ltd notified Mr C of the level of cover that he 
would renew on to and provided him with access to check his renewal documentation 
and we told him to check to ensure this suits his needs. Dynamo Cover Ltd is a 
broker, we are not the insurer who provides us with the products we sell. If we are 
unable to match a customers previous level of cover, we will still offer them our 
closest level of cover, which is what we did, as it is agreed between the business and the customer that we will send them a renewal invite if we have a product that could 
be suitable. As mentioned Mr C is notified twice within the reminder to check to make 
sure the product suits his needs and we can be contacted to answer any question 
that he may have. To confirm, Mr C did not contact us at all to question the renewal.
Dynamo Cover Ltd has acted reasonably by issuing Mr C with a renewal reminder 21 
days prior to the expiry of his policy that informed him of the level of cover he would 
be renewing on to, how to view the documents and that there may have been a 
change in cover so check to ensure the product still suits his needs. I also feel again 
that the comment acted reasonably implies that we have actively sought to 
disadvantage Mr C at renewal, which is untrue
Dynamo says Mr C was notified to make sure that the product he was offered still suited his 
needs in-line with ICOBS 6.5.1.
While I agree that Dynamo provided some standardised wording which required Mr C to 
check the policy at renewal - this would have been to ensure it continued to meet his needs 
as opposed to the onus being on him to identify a significant reduction in the level of cover. 
Ultimately Mr C was disadvantaged by the way Dynamo arranged the renewal as his claim 
wasnt met.
I dont find that Dynamo ensured Mr C was given appropriate information in a 
comprehensible form so that he could make an informed decision about the arrangements 
proposed. ICOBS 2.2.2 says;
When a firm communicates information, including a financial promotion, to a 
customer it must ensure that is clear, fair and not misleading.
It does not have to be an advised sale for this standard to be met. Dynamo was able to offer 
at renewal under the new policy similar cover to what Mr C had originally asked for - and as 
he didnt notify Dynamo of any changes to his requirements - I think Dynamo acted 
unreasonably in offering at renewal a much lower level of cover for a similar price to the 
previous year without highlighting the reduction - even though the policy could give Mr C 
similar cover to meet his unchanged needs.
So in line with my provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. 
I think Mr C was put to some disruption and inconvenience when he realised he would have 
to pay the full costs to have his car recovered - having broken down more than 20 miles from 
his home address. And I think - but for Dynamos failure to either provide a similar product or 
explain the significant change in cover at renewal - Mr C incurred costs he wouldnt have 
otherwise incurred as he and his son would have instead been recovered to their home 
address with the car that evening. 
Mr C explained that if his car had been recovered to his home address, he would have taken 
his car to his trusted local garage which hes used for several years and is within walking 
distance to his home. 
So I think Mr C should be put back in the position he would have been had Dynamo acted 
reasonably - in order to properly indemnify him. 
Dynamo should provide the appropriate benefits from the policy in line with National 
Plus/Personal Plus - Roadside Assistance & Recovery, Nationwide Recovery and Home 
Assist as this seems to closely match the cover to meet Mr Cs needs. But I dont think 
Dynamo is entitled to seek any additional premium from Mr C as I think it misled him into 
believing he had this level of cover at renewal.
I think Dynamo caused Mr C unnecessary distress and inconvenience. For this I think it 
should pay Mr C £300 compensation. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Dynamo Cover Limited to do the 
following:
Meet Mr Cs claim under the policy in line with the level of cover described as 
National Plus/Personal Plus - Roadside Assistance & Recovery, Nationwide 
Recovery and Home Assist under the new 2022 policy as this most closely 
matched Mr Cs demands and needs which hadnt changed - but that Dynamo 
shouldnt charge Mr C any additional premium for this level of cover.
Pay Mr C £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Dynamo Cover Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman