DRN-1915881
 
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) declined a claim she made on her 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs C holds an annual travel insurance policy with IPA through her bank account.
While on holiday, Mrs C suffered mild breathlessness and swollen feet. On her return, she 
visited her doctor. Her doctor recommended that she should have some tests to see what 
was the cause of her symptoms and to rule out any underlying issues.
Mrs C felt well enough to travel, and hadn't been given any advice to indicate otherwise. So 
she booked another holiday.
After booking the holiday, Mrs C's test results came back. Sadly she was diagnosed with 
lung cancer and advised not to travel. Mrs C cancelled her holiday and made a claim to 
IPA for the costs she'd lost.
IPA declined her claim. It said Mrs C needed to tell it if she was undergoing any tests, or if 
her medical condition changed. It said she wasn't covered if she was waiting for the results 
of any medical tests or examinations.
Mrs C complained. She said when she booked the holiday she was well, and there was 
nothing to suggest she wouldn't be able to travel. She said her diagnosis was as much of a 
shock to her doctor as it was to her, so there was no way of her knowing she wouldn't be 
able to make the trip at the time she booked it.
IPA looked into her complaint but felt it had acted fairly, in line with the terms of the policy by 
declining her claim.
Unhappy, Mrs C brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator didn't recommend her complaint be upheld. She understood Mrs C was 
unaware of any reason she'd not be able to make the trip at the point she booked it. But she 
thought the terms of Mrs C's policy meant she wasn't covered while she was awaiting the 
results of her tests and she wasn't covered for any pre-existing medical condition.
Mrs C remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman's decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I'm not upholding it. I 
understand this won't be the outcome Mrs C was hoping for, but I'll explain my reasoning below.
Mrs C's policy says she's not covered for any claim arising directly or indirectly from a pre-
existing condition unless she's declared it to IPA and IPA has accepted to cover it in writing. 
Her policy says Mrs C must make a medical declaration if she has a pre-existing medical 
condition when she opens her bank account or when booking a trip. Her policy defines a pre-
existing condition as:
"...Any past or current medical condition that has given rise to symptoms or for which any 
form of treatment or prescribed medication, medical consultation, investigation or follow-
up/check-up has been required or received during the two years prior to:
a) opening your Privilege or Privilege Premier current account,
b) booking any trip, or..."
Based on this, I'm satisfied Mrs C's diagnosis of lung cancer meets the policy definition of a 
pre-existing condition. I understand her diagnosis didn't come until after she booked the trip. 
But the symptoms and investigations were carried out prior to it being booked.
I've considered Mrs C's reasons for not letting IPA know of this. And while I think they're 
entirely understandable, this doesn't mean she's covered and that IPA should pay her claim.
I've considered what would have happened had Mrs C informed IPA she was having tests 
carried out. The policy says there's no cover in such circumstances. It says Mrs C won't be 
covered if she has any undiagnosed symptoms that require investigation, or if she's waiting 
for the results of any investigation that's already taken place. I've also seen evidence from 
IPA's underwriters showing that if Mrs C had told them she was waiting the results of tests, it 
would have informed her that no cover would be in place until she received the results.
Based on the above, I'm satisfied IPA fairly declined Mrs C's claim for her cancelled holiday. 
I'm satisfied her condition meets the policy's definition of pre-existing and the policy is clear 
in saying she's not covered for pre-existing conditions she's not made IPA aware of. While I 
understand Mrs C's reasons for not making IPA aware, had she done so, she'd have still not 
been covered by the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold Mrs C's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July2020.
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman