DRN-3187404
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC gave his brother online access to his account. 
What happened
Ms H brings this complaint on Mr Hs behalf. Ms H has explained that in 2017 an account 
was opened for Mr H with Lloyds. Mr Hs brother also opened an account. 
When Mr Hs brother setup online banking, he was able to see his brothers information and 
access his account. But when Mr H tried to set up online banking, he wasnt able to do so. 
Lloyds says that in May 2020 the accounts and brothers profiles merged on its systems. 
Lloyds has confirmed this was an error it has subsequently fixed with measures put in place 
to ensure it doesnt happen again. Lloyds has also explained it will report the data breach to 
the Information Commissioners Office, the organisation that regulates how businesses 
handle information. 
Whilst Mr Hs brother had access to his account, he carried out some transfers and 
payments. When Ms H discussed the issues with Lloyds on Mr Hs behalf she confirmed the 
transactions were carried out with his authority. 
Earlier this year, Ms H complained on Mr Hs behalf that his brother had been able to access 
his account information and complete transactions. Lloyds apologised and explained a 
systems issue had caused the accounts to merge. Lloyds offered Mr H £750 in recognition of 
the distress and inconvenience caused by its actions. 
On Mr Hs behalf, Ms H referred his complaint to this service. An investigator looked at what 
had happened and thought Lloyds offer was a fair way to resolve Mr Hs complaint. Ms H 
asked to appeal and said Mr H has autism and the situation continues to affect him. Ms H 
told us they didnt agree the existing offer was fair. As Ms H asked to appeal Mr Hs 
complaint, its been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background above as all parties broadly agree 
about the timeline and key events for Mr Hs complaint. Lloyds has confirmed the issue 
arose due to a systems error in May 2020. From that point Mr Hs brother had access to his 
online banking facility and was able to see account information and carryout transactions. 
I can see Mr H and Ms H are concerned that Lloyds shared private information with his 
brother without consent. I understand the concern and that Mr Hs details shouldnt have 
been shared. Lloyds has confirmed that it will refer the data breach directly to the regulator, 
the Information Commissioners Office. We cant fine or punish a business for making a 
mistake. In the circumstances of Mr Hs complaint, I think its reasonable for Lloyds to refer 
the matter to the regulator. 
I understand Mr H had to rely on his brother to access his online account facility. Ms H has 
confirmed the transfers made to his brother were done with Mr Hs consent. So whilst 
distressing, it doesnt appear Mr H lost out financially as a result of Lloyds mistake. 
I need to decide how to fairly resolve Mr Hs complaint. Im satisfied Lloyds corrected the 
systems error so Mr Hs brother no longer has access. Ms H has told us Mr H has autism 
and that this experience continues to impact him. I dont doubt how upsetting Mr H found this 
experience and that he now finds it difficult to trust Lloyds. I agree that Mr H was treated 
unfairly by Lloyds and Im pleased to see its apologised and offered a compensation for its 
errors. Ive taken everything Ms H has told us about how the situation impacted Mr H into 
account when reaching my decision. 
I understand my decision is likely to come as a disappointment for Mr H, but I think the £750 
offer Lloyds has made is a fair way to resolve his complaint. I appreciate Mr Hs details were 
shared with his brother and that he wasnt able to access online banking while the issue 
went on. I can appreciate how upsetting that must have been. But I think its fair to take into 
account that Ms H told Lloyds Mr H was aware his brother had access to his online banking 
facility and made transfers and payments with his consent. In my view, the £750 offer made 
by Lloyds fairly reflects the impact of its error on Mr H and is very much in line with what I 
wouldve told it to pay, had no offer been made. 
As Lloyds has fixed the technical issue and made a fair offer to Mr H to resolve his 
complaint, Im not telling it to increase the award or take further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint as Lloyds Bank PLC has already made an 
offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman