DRN-3662643
The complaint
Mr S complains that Monzo Bank Ltd will not refund card payments he believed were going 
to a legitimate trading company which he says turned out to be a scam.
Mr A is represented in this matter by CEL Solicitors (CEL).  For simplicity, I will refer to 
CELs actions and submissions as those made by Mr S.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, Mr S says his sister introduced him to a company he thought was a legitimate 
investment trading firm.  He made several card payments  using his Monzo Mastercard  to 
a cryptocurrency exchange I will refer to as M in this decision.  Mr S says he believed his 
payments were going to his trading platform account with the investment trading firm 
mentioned.  However, Mr S says he later discovered he had been scammed and lost all his 
money.
Mr S contacted Monzo about this and asked it to try to recover his money.  As this did not 
happen, he raised a complaint which he referred to our Service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  As Mr S did not 
agree with the investigators findings, this matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
Intervention
Mr S says Monzo should have flagged the payments concerned and stopped them  
particularly given the nature of them which he argues is unusual for his account.  Having 
considered this and what Mr S says about what is in the public domain regarding investment 
trading scams, I am unable to agree with his assertions.  I say this because I am not 
persuaded that Monzo ought to have intervened regarding the payments.  That is, I am not 
persuaded Monzo ought to have been altered to the payments, delayed them and asked 
questions to get to the bottom of what was going on.  In my view, I do not find the payments 
remarkable in any way to be cause for concern.
Chargeback
I have also thought about whether Mr S had any chargeback rights regarding the payments.  
I will turn to this now.
Chargeback is an entirely voluntary scheme, which means banks are under no formal 
obligation to raise a chargeback claim.  The scheme operator can ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them.  
However, such an arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed.  My role is to determine whether the regulated 
card issuer (in this case, Monzo) acted fairly and reasonably in its decision not to pursue a 
chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (in this case, Mr S).
Mr S made the payments concerned to M  a cryptocurrency exchange  which provided 
their service accordingly.  Because of this, if Monzo had pursued a chargeback, I am 
persuaded it would have likely been unsuccessful.  I say this because the alleged scam 
company was not a party to the card payments, so Mr S could not have a valid claim against 
the legitimate merchants (M) he paid.  M provided their services as intended.  The 
subsequent transfer of this would not give rise to a valid chargeback claim.  It follows that 
Monzo acted fairly and reasonably by not pursuing a chargeback on Mr Ss behalf, as M 
would have likely been able to defend such a claim.  
In any event, even if Mr S had made his payments to the alleged scam company directly  I 
am not persuaded he would have had any valid chargeback rights under the Mastercard 
scheme.
Taking all the above points together, I am satisfied that Monzo has not done anything wrong 
in its decision not to refund the payments concerned  particularly given the fact Mr S made 
them to an account he controlled.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman