DRN-1273729
 
The complaint
Mrs J says Canada Square Operations Limited, trading as Egg, mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs J applied for a credit card with Egg in 2006. A few weeks later, during an online balance 
transfer, Egg sold her PPI to protect her repayments if she couldnt work due to disability or 
unemployment. It also included life and serious illness cover.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mrs J disagreed, so the complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Js case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Before adding the policy, Egg had to make it clear to Mrs J that it was optional. She says she 
wasnt told that was the case. Mrs J applied for the PPI online, so Ive looked at the screens I 
believe shed have seen and completed during the application process. These included a 
section on PPI. The section included a box to click on if she wanted PPI, and an equally 
prominent one to click on below it if she didnt. 
On balance, I think Egg would have made it clear the PPI was optional and that Mrs J 
agreed to have it knowing she had a choice. Its understandable if she doesnt remember 
that now.
Give the PPI was added online, I dont think Egg recommended it to Mrs J. This means Egg 
didnt have to look into whether the PPI was right for Mrs J. But Egg should have provided 
enough information about the PPI for Mrs J to make her own decision as to whether it was 
right for her.
From what Ive seen, I dont think Egg made all the information Mrs J needed clear to her. 
But that, in itself, isnt enough for me to uphold the complaint. I must also go on to consider 
what difference any shortcomings made to Mrs J. And I dont think better information would 
have stopped her from buying the PPI. I say that because, for example:
It seems she was eligible for the PPI. And, while the PPI had certain exclusions to, or 
limits on, the cover I cant see that shed have been significantly affected by them. 
Mrs J says she was entitled to generous sick pay from her employer. But the PPI 
benefits would have paid out on top of that pay and for longer, at up to 12 months per claim. The PPI covered her for unemployment too. And, unlike the help she suggests 
shed have got from her parents, the PPI benefits were guaranteed. Overall, I think 
Mrs J would still have seen the PPI as offering worthwhile protection.
Ive seen nothing to suggest Mrs J would have considered the monthly premium to 
be unaffordable. And the PPI was flexible in that Mrs J could have cancelled it any 
time, and at no extra cost, if she decided she no longer wanted it.
 
All of which means Egg doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs J. But Egg 
will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs J because: 
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mrs J about that. Because Egg didnt tell Mrs J, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Eggs basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that offers fair in 
this case.
 
What the business needs to do
Egg has to pay back to Mrs J any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Egg should also pay back to Mrs J any 
extra interest she paid because of that.
Egg should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mrs J the difference between 
what Mrs J owes and what she would have owed if the commission and profit share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Egg should also pay Mrs J 8%* simple interest 
if she paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs J can claim back the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square Operations Limited doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs J.
But Canada Square Operations Limited does have to pay back to Mrs J any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman