DRN-3968729
The complaint
Miss B complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as Very (Shop 
Direct), lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss B applied for a shopping account with Shop Direct in June 2013. The catalogue 
shopping account was opened with a credit limit of £400. Over the following four years to 
April 2017 Miss Bs credit limit was increased a total of 12 times, with the highest limit being 
£7,000.
Miss B says that she struggled with the repayments. She intimates that she was in financial 
difficulty and had a very low income. She asks Shop Direct refund her the interest and 
charges on her payments. 
Shop Direct accepted that it shouldnt have increased Miss Bs credit limit in July 2015 and 
beyond. It offered to pay back the interest and charges on balances above £3,000. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint. He couldnt identify anything Shop Direct 
had done anything wrong in its lending decisions up to July 2015.
Miss B disagreed. As Miss B did not agree the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
Miss B also disagreed with the refund offered by Shop Direct in relation to her balance 
above £3,000. Our investigator checked the calculations with Shop Direct and was satisfied 
they were correct. If Miss B remains dissatisfied with the calculation she must make a formal 
complaint to Shop Direct. Once that complaint is addressed by Shop Direct, Miss B may 
make a complaint about that specific matter to this service if she remains unhappy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Miss Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our adjudicator. I havent seen 
evidence that Shop Direct acted unfairly and lent to Miss B irresponsibly. Ill explain why Ive 
reached this conclusion.
Shop Direct needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss B 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amount, Miss Bs borrowing history and her income and expenditure.
Shop Direct has provided a list of the checks it completed when opening Miss Bs account. It 
says these show that it was reasonable to lend to Miss B in the way that it did.
I can see from this list that Shop Direct saw that Miss B was currently in default on two other 
credit accounts. Our investigator didnt think that this ought to have caused concern and 
made Shop Direct do other checks.
I disagree. I think that was enough to indicate Shop Direct ought to have done further checks 
on Miss Bs income and expenditure. Similarly, our investigator didnt think Shop Direct 
needed to do further checks when it increase Miss Bs credit limit up to £1,200.  While I 
disagree with our investigator on this point it doesnt ultimately make any difference to the 
outcome of Miss Bs complaint for reasons I shall explain.
When Miss Bs credit limit was increased to £1,500 our investigator thought that Shop Direct 
ought to have verified Miss Bs income and expenditure. This was in March 2014.
Shop Direct hasnt been able to provide evidence of any checks it did. This isnt surprising 
given the length of time which has passed. As I think Shop Direct ought to have at least 
checked Miss Bs income and essential expenditure, I think its reasonable to rely on the 
evidence provided by Miss B from her bank statements to work out what Shop Direct might 
have found out.
Unfortunately, Miss B has only been able to provide statements from April 2015 onwards. 
Shop Direct has upheld Miss Bs complaint from July 2015. There were no credit limit 
increases between April 2015 and the increase in July 2015. 
In the absence of any earlier information, I cant be satisfied Shop Direct did anything wrong. 
Miss B submits that she was a student from 2014 to 2017 so I should rely on the bank 
statements provided to show what her finances would have been like. Miss B says that she 
disagrees that she should have to provide evidence when Shop Direct hasnt been able to 
provide evidence of the checks it did. Miss B also says that the fact Shop Direct increased 
her interest rate shows that it must have had concerns about her ability to repay. 
I do not think its unreasonable for Shop Direct to be unable to provide information from more 
than eight years ago. In the same way, I dont think its unreasonable for Miss B to not be 
able to provide her bank statements. But the onus is on Miss B to show that Shop Direct did 
something wrong and if it had acted fairly that she wouldnt have lost out. Without evidence 
of Miss Bs circumstances, I cannot find in her favour. Where there has been evidence 
available, Shop Direct has upheld her complaint.
 
This means that, on balance, I cant be satisfied that Miss B lost out as a result of anything 
Shop Direct did wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I do not uphold Miss Bs complaint. It follows that Shop 
Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as Very, does not have to do anything further.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman