DRN-3400115
The complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance, wont refund to him the money that he paid for two timeshares.
 
What happened
Mr S and his wife entered into a membership application agreement in April 2014 to buy a 
holiday club membership from a holiday company. The membership application fee was 
£19,965 and Mr S applied to Barclays Partner Finance for a loan of that amount. His 
application was successful and he signed a fixed sum loan agreement but he then made the 
payment by other means.
Mr S and his wife entered into another membership application agreement with that holiday 
company in March 2015 to buy another holiday club membership. The membership 
application fee was £54,986 and Mr S applied to Barclays Partner Finance for a loan of 
£40,000. His application was again successful and he signed a fixed sum loan agreement 
but he then made the payment by other means.
He made a claim to Barclays Partner Finance under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 that the memberships had been mis-sold to him but it said that the loans werent 
activated. Mr S wasnt satisfied with its response so he complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He said that 
Barclays Partner Finance hadnt provided any funds to Mr S in relation to either transaction 
so he didnt think that it had acted unfairly by not looking into his claim against it any further 
as it didnt provide him with any credit for the purchases.
Mr S has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that:
the timeshares were mis-sold;
the holiday company and Barclays Partner Finance placed offers of financial loans on 
the table which coerced him to buy the timeshares;
inadequate credit checks on affordability were made;
the balance of the purchase prices were paid as a deposit at the points of sale during 
the 14-day cooling off periods;
hes always acknowledged that the loans werent drawn down; and
the basis of his claim is the illegal selling of the timeshares when the holiday 
company wasnt a regulated credit broker and its financial partner was Barclays 
Partner Finance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
in certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against 
the supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier;
one of those circumstances is that credit has been provided but Mr S accepts that no 
credit was provided to him and Barclays Partner Finance says that the loans werent 
activated;
its clear that Mr S applied to Barclays Partner Finance for credit, that those 
applications were accepted and that both Mr S and Barclays Partner Finance signed 
the fixed sum loan agreements  but Mr S says that he withdrew from the loans 
during the cooling-off periods and Barclays Partner Finance says that the loans 
werent activated - so the memberships were paid for by other means;
as no credit was provided to Mr S by Barclays Partner Finance, I dont consider that it 
would have any liability to Mr S under section 75;
our investigator also considered whether Mr S would have claims against Barclays 
Partner Finance under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  that section gives 
a court the power, amongst other things, to require a creditor to repay any sum paid 
by the debtor under a credit agreement if it determines that theres an unfair 
relationship between the debtor and the creditor;
as no credit was provided to Mr S by Barclays Partner Finance, I dont consider that 
theres a debtor-creditor relationship in these circumstances so I dont consider that 
Barclays Partner Finance would have any liability to Mr S under section 140A; and
I sympathise with Mr S and his wife for the issues that theyve had with their holiday 
club memberships and the difficulties that theyve described, but I find that it wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Barclays Partner 
Finance to refund to them any of the money that they paid under the membership 
application agreements, to pay any compensation to Mr S or to take any other action 
in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman