DRN-3269211
The complaint
Miss R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, lent to her 
irresponsibly and provided credit that was unaffordable for her.
What happened
In January 2016 Miss R took out a credit card with Barclaycard. She had an initial account 
limit of £400. Between January 2017 and April 2018 Miss Rs credit limit was increased on 
three occasions until it was £2,700. 
Miss R says that Barclaycard shouldnt have lent to her. She also says her credit limit 
shouldnt have been increased because she was in debt at the time and was finding it 
difficult to meet her repayments. Miss R wanted what she had paid in interest and charges to 
be paid back, along with compensation.
In Barclaycards initial review it partially upheld Miss Rs complaint for reasons which I will 
explain later. It provided Miss R with some compensation. Miss R didnt agree with the 
redress offered and so she brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought that Barclaycard hadnt irresponsibly supplied Miss R with the initial 
credit or the further credit limit increases. Although Barclaycard had paid Miss R some 
compensation and told her it made errors in respect of affordability our investigator 
considered that on the evidence available, and by the rules this service has to apply, 
Barclaycard hadnt done anything wrong. That being the case, the investigator didnt think 
Barclaycard needed to pay anything else to Miss R.
Miss R disagreed with the investigators findings, so her case has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Miss Rs complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. The investigators 
written view was extremely comprehensive  as were the follow-up views provided after Miss 
R disagreed with the outcome - and I have little to add to what she said. However, Miss R 
did raise questions after that view was provided and I will cover these in my decision.
Barclaycard needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss R 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts, Miss Rs borrowing history and her income and expenditure. 
Barclaycard has provided the results of the checks it did when Miss R opened the account. I 
can see from this that Miss R told Barclaycard she had a salary of £15,000 and she was 
living with her parents. Barclaycard validated this information, along with her assessed 
outgoings. This used current account data, existing credit commitments and housing costs 
along with essential spending which was modelled based on similar consumers in the same 
area to work out how much disposable income Miss R had. The checks showed that Miss R 
had about £4,000 in other unsecured lending at the time. After meeting all her financial 
obligations, Barclaycard assessed that Miss R had a disposable income each month of 
about £410.
 
Based on this an initial credit limit of £400 appeared affordable and Miss R didnt appear to 
be overindebted. Miss Rs bank statements from around the same time seem to support this 
assessment of her financial situation. So, Im satisfied that the checks Barclaycard 
completed were reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances and it didnt make an 
unfair lending decision. 
I think that Barclaycard should have directly verified Miss Rs income and expenditure when 
it increased her limit (at her request) quite substantially in January 2017  and also when it 
increased her limit again in September 2017 and April 2018. But only if it was clear that what 
they would have seen should have resulted in a different lending decision would I uphold this 
complaint. 
Looking at the information provided by Miss R, which includes her bank statements and 
credit file, I dont think this would have made Barclaycard think that Miss R couldnt afford 
the repayments. She was managing her repayments on all her credit well, often paying off 
more than the minimum amount. Although Miss R says she was struggling financially and 
wasnt making an impact on her overall balance on her Barclaycard, this was because she 
was continuing to spend on the card, which she was entitled to do. Looking at the credit card 
statements the vast majority of it was discretionary spending rather than for bills and to pay 
off credit. 
On balance, I dont think Miss R lost out as a result of anything Barclaycard did wrong in 
relation to its lending decisions and I do not think Barclaycard needs to compensate Miss R 
further. 
Barclaycard has already provided some compensation to Miss R after an internal review of 
its lending practices identified a group of customers who may have been affected by a fault 
with its own internal affordability calculator. Miss R was identified as potentially affected and 
she was automatically compensated for any potential loss. Her circumstances werent 
individually reviewed to see if she was affected but Barclaycard took a blanket approach to 
compensating anyone who might have been affected. This included people like Miss R 
where there was a later indication of financial difficulty. Miss R did have financial difficulties 
in 2020- two years after her final credit limit increase - and so she was in scope for this 
compensation. 
I realise this may be confusing as Barclaycard told Miss R it upheld her complaint about 
unaffordable lending but didnt provide the compensation she expected. But I have to look at 
each case on its own merits, rather than take a blanket approach. Having done so, I dont 
think Barclaycard lent to Miss R irresponsibly or unaffordably. So, I dont think Barclaycard 
needs to pay Miss R any additional compensation. I know this will be disappointing for Miss 
R. My final decision
I do not uphold Miss Rs complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman