DRN-2140585
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy they were sold a life assurance policy by an advisor from 
Santander UK Plc in 2012. Mr and Mrs P said the policy didnt meet their interests or needs 
and they found the policy difficult to pay for.   
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint has been brought to us by their representative. But for ease of 
reference, Ill refer to Mr and Mrs P throughout this decision. 
What happened
One of our investigators considered Mr and Mrs Ps complaint but didnt think it should be 
upheld. He felt the policy was suitable for the couples needs at the time. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt accept what our investigator said and have asked for an Ombudsmans 
review. They said they were vulnerable and were taken advantage of by Santander. They 
said they had other plans in place to pay the mortgage off, as well as other life policies to 
cover funeral costs. They also said they couldve relied on financial support from their 
daughters or released equity in their property to cover the mortgage, should the need have 
arisen. 
Mr and Mrs P also said they thought their meeting with the advisor was a review of their 
investments. But Santander used this as an opportunity to sell them the life assurance policy 
they didnt need and couldnt afford. Mr and Mrs P accepted they couldve cancelled the 
policy at the time  but felt intimidated and overwhelmed by the amount of literature and the 
effort put in by the advisor. 
Mr and Mrs P also questioned why a 14 year policy with a sum assured of £25,000 was sold 
to them, bearing in mind their intention to pay the mortgage off early and the other financial 
plans they had in place. And they wanted to know why other, more suitable life policies 
werent considered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr and Mr P feel strongly about this complaint, and have spent much 
time and effort pursuing it, and so Im sure my decision will come as a disappointment to 
them. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. Including the detailed testimony provided by Mr and 
Mrs P as to why they think the policy was mis-sold. Ive also considered a statement 
provided to me by Santander from the advisor who interviewed Mr and Mrs P in 2012  as 
well as their comments on that statement.  But Ill concentrate my findings on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome. 
As our investigator has already explained, a recommendation a business makes to a 
customer about a policy must be suitable for their needs and circumstances at that time. Its 
often the case that with the benefit of hindsight, a product sold some time ago might not 
appear to have been suitable. But when looking at cases like this, I must decide from the 
evidence available at the point of sale, together with anything else provided by either party, 
about the suitability of the product sold. 
As part of my review I asked Santander to check again that no records existed from the point 
of sale. And Im satisfied that is unfortunately the case. But I do believe that I have enough 
evidence to decide, on balance, whether the policy was mis-sold. 
I dont doubt what Mr and Mrs P have said about their plans to settle the mortgage early 
through investments and other means  and how they believed they had finances in place to 
cover the mortgage in the event their circumstances changed. But whilst Mr and Mr P were 
clearly making financial decisions for their future, none of those plans could be relied upon 
with absolute certainty in 2012 when the policy was sold to them. Investment performance 
was a risk, as was a reliant on savings, equity in their property, or on the support of family 
members whose own circumstances mightve changed. I can also see that the other life 
assurance policies held by Mr and Mr P were intended to cover funeral costs, which 
suggests these werent intended as cover for the mortgage. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs P were able to keep up payments on their mortgage and redeem it 
as theyd planned in 2017. But I must reiterate that Im looking at the situation in 2012 when 
the policy was sold  a policy that guaranteed Mr and Mr P wouldve been able to pay off 
their mortgage and keep their home in the event one of them died. And meet other expenses 
that mightve not been covered by savings or other life policies they had in place. 
Looking at the specifics of the policy itself, I cant say it wasnt suitable to meet Mr and Mrs 
Ps needs. It was a joint policy that covered them for the entire term left on the mortgage and 
had a sum assured equal to the amount of capital they owed. Mr and Mrs P have suggested 
that a more suitable policy wouldve had a reduced sum assured and a shorter term, given 
their intention to pay the mortgage off early. But we cant apply the benefit of hindsight here. 
As Ive mentioned above, Mr and Mr P had plans in place to cover the mortgage, but all 
those plans came with an element of risk. Whereas the policy they were sold guaranteed 
them both protection for the remining term of the mortgage. So, I cant say it wasnt suitable. 
Because we have no actual evidence from the point of sale about the affordability of the 
policy - only conflicting testimonies from Mr and Mrs P and the advisor that a budget planner 
was completed - I cant say for certain that the advisor considered Mr and Mrs Ps income 
and expenditure when looking at the affordability of the policy. But whilst I accept the policy 
wouldve been an expense for them, Ive not seen any clear evidence to show Mr and Mrs P 
couldnt afford the premiums. I understand the point being made here, but the financial 
commitment of a policy is not, by itself, evidence that the policy was mis-sold. 
Mr and Mrs P have told us about their vulnerability and how they were taken advantage of by 
Santander who pressured them into taking out the policy. I have no reason to dispute whats 
been said here  or Mr and Mrs Ps recollection of what happened during their meeting with 
the advisor. But I cant say that sales tactics used by Santander alone mean the policy was 
mis-sold. Particularly as we have no actual documentary evidence of exactly what was 
discussed back in 2012  and so I cant say with any degree of certainty that Mr and Mrs P 
were forced into buying the policy. I fully appreciate that they may have felt compelled to go 
ahead given the amount of paperwork presented to them  but Santander did provide them with the right to change your mind paperwork, which Mr and Mrs P couldve considered in 
their own time. 
I dont underestimate how the benefit of hindsight, coupled with Mr and Mrs Ps vulnerability 
has added weight to their belief Santander mis-sold them the life cover in 2012. But having 
taken everything into account, I cant say that was the case. The policy did meet their needs 
and circumstances at the time and provided guaranteed suitable cover for a genuine risk. 
So, I dont believe Santander acted unfairly or unreasonably here and wont be asking it to 
take any action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman