DRN-2661893
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (when it was trading under a different 
business name) mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI).
As Lloyds Bank PLC is responsible for dealing with this complaint, to keep things simpler, Ill 
just refer to Lloyds as the seller in my decision. 
What happened
In December 1997, Mr and Mrs B arranged a joint mortgage and they also applied for PPI to 
protect their monthly mortgage repayments if they couldnt work. 
In February 2003, they took out a further advance on their mortgage and they arranged a 
new PPI policy. As before, this policy covered both Mr and Mrs B if they couldnt work as a 
result of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Although Mr and Mrs B took out more borrowing later on, they didn't take out any further 
PPI. So in my decision Im looking at how they were sold PPI at the start of their mortgage 
and with their additional borrowing in 2003.
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs B 
disagree and theyd like an ombudsman to review whats happened. 
In brief summary, Mr and Mrs B mainly say:
they werent told that the insurance was optional. Mr and Mrs B said they had no 
previous experience of taking out a mortgage or loan and were led to believe that PPI 
was compulsory to take on the mortgage offer
the policy details werent explained either before or at the time they took out the 
mortgage. They said the costs and benefits of the policy were not made clear. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs B are sure about everything theyve told us. But it wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs B to remember exactly what was discussed when they took 
out these policies so long ago. This means that what Mr and Mrs B say isnt enough on its 
own for me to be able to uphold their complaint. I must make my decision based on what I 
think is likely to have happened taking into account all the information thats available, what 
the parties have told me and also thinking about what we know about these types of sales at 
that time. 
what happened in 1997
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs B a choice about taking 
out the PPI. 
In order to be able to uphold this complaint Id have to find that its likely that they werent 
given a fair choice about taking out PPI or that the policy was added to Mr and Mrs Bs 
mortgage account without their knowledge or consent. 
Looking at the paperwork they completed, I think Lloyds probably did make Mr and Mrs B 
aware that the PPI was optional and that they chose to have it. 
Theres nothing on the mortgage application that wouldve reasonably suggested to them 
that having PPI was compulsory. 
In order to take out the policy, Mr and Mrs B had to fill in a separate application form to apply 
for PPI. 
Ive seen a copy of their PPI application and this shows they indicated they wanted to set the 
policy up to cover them both. Mr and Mrs B provided details of the loan they wanted to 
cover. They opted to split the policy benefits equally. Mr and Mrs B both signed the PPI 
application and they also set up payment arrangements at their bank to cover the monthly 
PPI cost. This all makes me think that Mr and Mrs B decided to take out this insurance and 
discussed how they wanted to share the cover between them. 
So I dont think the evidence is strong enough for me safely to say that Lloyds didnt make it 
clear that it was open to Mr and Mrs B not to choose PPI if they didnt want to have it, just 
based on what they say. Although I dont know exactly what was discussed about the PPI 
I think Mr and Mrs B wouldve understood from the paperwork they had to complete to take it 
out that it was up to them to say if they wanted to have PPI  and the cover they selected 
reflected their wishes at the time.  
And I can understand why they mightve wanted to have the benefits the policy offered them. 
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of 
time. Their home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. 
PPI provided a dependable means of ensuring the monthly mortgage repayments were 
protected even if they couldnt work. 
On balance, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs B wanted to have the benefits and 
security of having PPI and they decided to buy the policy. 
Lloyds says it recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs B. If a financial business makes a 
recommendation about PPI it has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it 
recommends is suitable as well as giving important policy information in a clear way. 
Looking at Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time, I think PPI was suitable for them.
Mr and Mrs B were both eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the PPI terms 
and conditions that applied. And the way the benefit was split between them seems 
reasonable as they were both responsible for paying the mortgage.Both Mr and Mrs B couldve relied on getting good sick pay. But this doesnt mean that PPI 
wasnt suitable for them. 
The policy wouldve covered their mortgage repayments (plus some extra) and paid out on 
top of any sick pay and in full for up to 12 months per claim. I think this couldve been a 
useful benefit at whats likely to have been a difficult time for Mr and Mrs B  especially if 
they mightve faced extra costs as a result of one (or both of them) being ill or having a 
disability. 
It would be very unusual for someone to be guaranteed to receive full sick pay for a whole 
year  and based on what Mr and Mrs B told us I think its more likely that whilst they 
mightve received some sick pay for up to 12 months if they were off work sick, at least some 
of this wouldve been half pay. The standard terms and conditions theyve mentioned were 
often 6 months' full sick pay followed by half pay for 6 months. So I think its likely PPI 
wouldve provided Mr and Mrs B with better cover than they couldve depended on getting 
from their employers.
The policy wouldve also paid out in the event that Mr B or Mrs B became unexpectedly 
unemployed. 
Being entitled to redundancy benefits from their employers wouldnt have helped 
Mr and Mrs B if they were off work sick. And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any 
redundancy money they mightve got if theyd lost their jobs, giving Mr and Mrs B some 
additional financial security in those circumstances.
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs B mentioned having death in service benefits  but 
PPI provided a different sort of cover and paid out in different circumstances. So this doesnt 
affect my decision. 
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs B had some savings. But there was no guarantee 
when Mr and Mrs B took out this mortgage that they would always have savings to rely on. It 
looks like they might have used at least some of this money towards the deposit on their new 
home. And it they didnt put all their money towards keeping down the cost of borrowing, 
I think they mightve valued the protection PPI offered as it meant they could keep savings 
intact to spend on other things or provide financial security as they wouldnt have been 
forced to use this money to pay the mortgage.
Repeat claims were possible under the policy after a qualifying period back at work. In this 
way, the policy offered them long term cover for their mortgage. 
So, I think PPI couldve provided Mr and Mrs B with useful protection and it was suitable for 
them.
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs B were both in full time 
employment and in good health when they took out the PPI and it doesnt look as if they 
were affected by any of the main conditions limiting the policys benefits. 
So, even if all the policy exclusions and limitations werent explained as clearly as they 
shouldve been, I dont think having more information about what wasnt covered wouldve 
put them off taking it out. Based on all the information I've seen and been told, I think Mr and Mrs B chose to take out 
the policy. So it appears to me they did want to have this type of cover when they set up 
their mortgage. I dont know how the costs and benefits were explained to Mr and Mrs B. But 
I think Mr and Mrs B wouldve understood there was a cost for the cover when they set up 
separate payment arrangements for the policy. And I can see that Lloyds sent a letter to 
Mr and Mrs B shortly after the policy was set up explaining they had 30 days to cancel the 
policy without incurring any cost if they changed their minds about having it. 
Details of the PPI were included  - this shows that the policy was actually free for the first 
year. Mr and Mrs B didnt have to pay anything for it until February 1999. 
Lloyds wrote to Mr and Mrs B again in January 1999 reminding them what the policy would 
cost  and Mr and Mrs B wrote back with updated bank details so Lloyds could collect the 
direct debit to pay for the policy.
All this makes me think that Mr and Mrs B were happy to pay for the cover at the time. And it 
doesnt look as if the policy was an expense they couldnt afford  so the cost didnt make it 
unsuitable for them. As they paid for the PPI each month, they were able to cancel the policy 
at no extra cost at any time. 
Taking all their circumstances into account, even if there were failings in the way Lloyds sold 
them PPI when they took out their mortgage, I dont think that better information wouldve put 
Mr and Mrs B off having it. 
what happened in 2003
I cant be sure exactly how Lloyds explained PPI to Mr and Mrs B during the course of 
discussions when they took out a further advance on their mortgage. 
The loan application Mr and Mrs B filled in didnt say that PPI was required. 
In order to take out the PPI Mr and Mrs B completed a separate PPI application and they 
both signed the completed form to get the policy. So although I dont know what they were 
told about the PPI, I think Mr and Mrs B would've been aware that it was up to them to apply 
for the PPI if they wanted to have it. 
And I can understand why Mr and Mrs B mightve felt PPI could still be useful for them. As 
far as I can see, their circumstances were broadly the same as theyd been when they first 
took out their mortgage - theyd both progressed in their careers and continued to have the 
same employment benefits they had at the start of their mortgage. 
It looks like they told Lloyds that the purpose of this extra borrowing was debt consolidation 
so its possible their savings had by now been largely spent. 
This policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months per accident, sickness or unemployment 
claim  and the monthly benefit covered not just their mortgage monthly repayments but also 
some extra financial help with other costs.
So the policy offered them useful protection that I think Mr and Mrs B wouldve valued as 
they were able to benefit from all the protection I've described above. 
Taking out this policy gave Mr and Mrs B long term protection for all the borrowing they now 
had on their mortgage account.
It seems Mr and Mrs B were happy to pay for the cover they wanted at the time.  Taking all their circumstances into account, even if there were failings in the way Lloyds sold 
them this policy, I dont think that having clearer information wouldve put Mr and Mrs B off 
having it given the benefits it offered them in their particular situation. I think they would still 
have bought the policy when they borrowed extra on their mortgage in 2003.
Like our adjudicator, Ive thought about whether the fact they continued to share the policy 
benefits when theyd put on the application form that they wanted to take out the cover just in 
Mr Bs name alone affects the outcome of this complaint.
But this doesnt make any overall difference. Mr and Mrs B paid the same amount for the 
policy irrespective of whose name it was in  and I cant see anything to make me think that 
they lost out by having cover in their joint names as Mr and Mrs B made no claims on the 
policy. 
So I dont find Mr and Mrs B are worse off as a result of anything that Lloyds mightve done 
wrong. 
And theres nothing it needs to do to put things right. 
In coming to my decision, Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give back to 
Mr and Mrs B some of the commission they paid. 
The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance dont apply to certain types of 
mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage 
became a regulated mortgage before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. 
So Lloyds doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs B paid for the PPI they 
had with that mortgage.
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs B that Ive thought carefully about everything that they have 
said, including the comments made in response to our adjudicators view. 
I understand that what Ive said will come as a disappointment and I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2021. 
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman