DRN-3824737
The complaint
In July 2017, Mrs B invested £20,000 in a 3 Year Fixed Monthly Income IFISA bond with 
Basset & Gold Plc (B&G Plc). She says the bond was mis-sold as the Invitation Document 
gave misleading statements regarding the security of the investment proposition. She also 
believes she was misled regarding losses suffered by Uncle Buck, the investment process 
undertaken in seeking to source lending opportunities and the characterisation of how the 
business sought to generate returns. Mrs B said she was assured the investment was 
secure and fully asset backed.
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
Mrs B invested in a B&G Plc 3 Year Fixed Monthly Income IFISA bond. Sales of this bond 
were dealt with by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), a separate business from B&G Plc, the 
issuer of the bond. BG Ltd arranged applications for investments in the bond, through a 
website it operated. And it was responsible for advertising and marketing the bond. Potential 
investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss the bond.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited 
(Gallium). B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 
February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Mrs Bs investment in the bond
Mrs B found out about the bond after her husband carried out some research on her behalf. 
Mrs B visited BG Ltds website looking for a low risk product and applied online via the BG 
Ltd website. Mrs B had little investment experience beyond earlier investments in Blackmore 
bond and London Capital & Finance secure bond which she believed were asset backed 
with an insurance guarantee. At the time of the application for the B&G Plc bond, her 
previous bonds were still running and it was prior to Blackmore and London Capital & 
Finance failing.
I have also been supplied with a number of call recordings pre and post sale. They were with 
Mrs Bs husband and are administrative in nature. They are not material and the application 
was made online, so they have not been relied on when reaching my findings.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that 
nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day 
lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went into administration 
in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mrs B 
has not had her invested capital returned to her.
The application process
Mrs B applied online when taking out the bond.
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show the 
application journey that Mrs B underwent. This consisted of two stages, designed to meet 
the rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to and on how to test whether the 
investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was certification, where Mrs B 
was categorised as a high net worth investor. The second was the appropriateness test. 
Galliums response to Mrs Bs complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mrs Bs complaint. It said Mrs B had been given sufficient information 
and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions, once Mrs Bs 
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also 
considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general 
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mrs Bs complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
Mrs B met the requirements of a high net worth investor.
The application process in terms of the appropriateness of the bond for her was 
inconsistent with the FCAs rules or guidance, and didnt gather sufficient information 
to comply with the FCAs rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, C wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have concluded 
that it shouldnt allow C to invest. For these reasons, both cumulatively and 
individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to compensate C for 
the loss she has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary: 
It notes that Mrs B met the requirements of a high net worth investor. 
The appropriateness test answers and these confirmations were sufficient for Gallium 
to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and experience of 
the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mrs B made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it, and 
did not choose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which warned of the 
concentration risk. So she would have proceeded with the investment regardless. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I 
have taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a 
general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory 
system (PRIN 1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 
(Communications with clients) are relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules 
restricting who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was 
appropriate for the potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 
10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I have considered the relevant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have 
considered these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for the same reasons. In summary:
Mrs B was certified as a high net worth investor and she confirmed she qualified 
for this category.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not 
meet the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been 
apparent the bond was not an appropriate investment for Mrs B. In the 
circumstances Mrs B would either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and 
reasonably, BG Ltd should have concluded it should not promote the bond to Mrs 
B.
For this reason my decision is that Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. I am also 
satisfied Mrs B would either not have proceeded to make the investment or would not 
have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory 
obligations. And so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to compensate Mrs B for her 
loss.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs 
B as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not invested in the bond.
I take the view that Mrs B would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is 
fair and reasonable given Mrs B's circumstances and objectives when she invested.What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mrs B fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mrs B's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay to Mrs B £200 for the distress caused by the total loss of her investment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
3 Year Fixed 
Monthly 
Income 
IFISA BondStill exists 
but illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mrs B agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take 
ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Mrs B that she repays to Gallium any 
amount she may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gallium totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If 
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs B wanted income with some growth with a small risk to her capital. She had 
selected the income option on the bond and had other funds in growth products. 
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
I consider that Mrs B's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mrs B into that position. It does not mean 
that Mrs B would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs B could have obtained from investments 
suited to her objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mrs B in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman