DRN-3826178
The complaint
Mrs D, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proportionate affordability checks before it granted her loans. 
What happened
Mrs D was advanced six home collected loans between March 2018 and November 2019. 
Ive included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateweekly 
termweekly 
repayment 
per loan
1 £300.00 06/03/2018 25/09/2018 33 £15.00
2 £500.00 14/08/2018 06/02/2019 33 £25.00
3 £300.00 25/09/2018 14/05/2019 33 £15.00
4 £700.00 06/02/2019 13/11/2019 52 £24.50
5 £300.00 05/06/2019 05/11/2019 33 £15.00
6 £700.00 13/11/2019 06/12/2019 53 £24.50
Following Mrs Ds complaint Morses wrote to her representative to explain that it wasnt 
going to uphold it. Mrs Ds representative didnt accept the outcome and referred the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. She thought Morses had made a reasonable 
decision to provide loans 1  4 and so she didnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint about these 
loans. 
However, she did think further checks ought to have been carried out before loan 5 was 
granted but she couldnt say what further checks may have shown Morses because she 
didnt have any information about Mrs Ds financial position at the time. But she thought the 
lending was now harmful for Mrs D by the time loan 6 was granted and so the complaint was 
upheld about this loan. 
Morses disagreed with the outcome the adjudicator had reached. Ive summarised its 
comments below.
All loans were repaid without undue hardship. 
Mrs D didnt notify Morses of any financial difficulties she may have had. 
Mrs D had a good repayment history. 
Her income was verified through the credit reference agencies. 
Only 12.2% of Mrs Ds income was needed to meet her repayments for loan 6.
Mrs D withdrew from the final loan agreement within 14 days of the loan starting and 
so there isnt any interest to refund on this loan. The loan ought to not have been 
recorded with the credit reference agencies, however, Morses requested the loan be 
removed anyway, just in case it was being reported. 
Mrs Ds representative acknowledged the outcome reached by the adjudicator, but no further 
comments were provided. 
The case was then passed to an ombudsman to make a decision about the complaint. 
Before issuing the final decision, I asked the adjudicator to let Mrs Ds representative know 
that even if the complaint is upheld, the statement of account received from Morses 
suggests that for loan 6  no interest was paid. 
However, while acknowledging the request and saying it had contacted Mrs D, no further 
response has been received. Therefore, in order to bring this matter to a close, a final 
decision has been issued. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mrs D could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and 
Mrs Ds income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs D. These factors include:
Mrs D having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs D having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs D coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs D.
Morses was required to establish whether Mrs D could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs D was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Ds complaint.
Neither Morses nor Mrs D (or her representative) appear to disagree with the outcome the 
adjudicator reached about loans 1 - 5. I therefore no longer think these loans are in dispute. I 
would add, that like the adjudicator, I do agree Morses made a reasonable decision to 
provide these loans even if further checks ought to have been carried out before loan 5 was 
approved. I therefore say no more about these loans. 
Loan 6 
For loan 6 Morses wouldve asked for details of Mrs Ds income and expenditure. For this 
loan, Mrs D declared a weekly income of £200 per week. Mrs D also declared weekly 
expenditure of £133.50  this included the repayment to Morses. This gave, Mrs D £66.50 
per week in disposable income.
Based solely on Mrs Ds income and expenditure information Morses couldve been 
confident she would be able to comfortably afford the repayments she was committed to 
making. 
However, I do have some concerns, because apart from £50 a week on groceries, the rest of 
Mrs Ds weekly outgoings were payments to either Morses, or other credit providers. Given 
this, is arguable whether these checks went far enough considering how long Mrs D had 
been indebted to Morses, her future weekly commitment and what Morses already knew 
about Mrs Ds finances.
In my view, by now, it wouldve been reasonable for Morses to have at the very least, started 
to have verified the information it was being given by Mrs R. Ive not seen anything to 
suggest it carried out further checks in this case. 
However, I dont think I need to try and establish, in this case, whether a proportionate check 
wouldve led Morses to conclude the loan was unaffordable for Mrs D. 
So, in addition to looking at the checks that Morses did Ive also looked at the overall pattern 
of Morses lending history with Mrs D, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which 
Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further 
loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Ds case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 6. I say this because:
At this point Morses ought to have realised Mrs D was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Mrs D was taking out her sixth loan in 20 months. So Morses 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mrs D was having to borrow further 
to cover a long-term short fall in her living costs. 
From her first loan, Mrs D was provided with a new loan on the same day a previous 
loan was repaid. To me, this is a sign that Mrs D was using these loans to fill a long-
term gap in her income rather than as a short-term need.  
The expenditure information Mrs D provided to Morses indicated that she already 
had a significant amount of other credit that needed servicing  nearly £60 per week 
before this Morses loan was taken into account. Mrs D was committed to spending 
over 40% of her declared income solely on credit commitments could be a sign that 
she had an ongoing need for credit. Mrs D wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Morses. Loan 6 was 
taken out 20 months after Mrs Ds first loan and was to be repaid over another year. 
Her final loan was her joint largest capital loan to date and was more than twice the 
size of her first loan. Mrs D had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a 
debt to Morses over an extended period.
I think that Mrs D lost out when Morses provided loan 6 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ds indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mrs D borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mrs Ds ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding Mrs Ds complaint about loan 6. 
Putting things right
Before, addressing this, I do say that it does seem from the statement of account that the 
loan was cancelled within the 14-day cooling off period, and the statement does suggest 
Mrs D only repaid the capital she borrowed. Therefore, it is entirely possible, and indeed 
likely, that there will be no compensation to pay to Mrs D. 
In addition, while Morses has already said that it has requested adjustment to the credit file, 
Ive not seen anything to suggest the loan was being reported to Mrs Ds credit file in the first 
place. In saying that, Ive included that Morses should make the adjustment below. 
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had if it hadnt lent loan 6, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there are 
a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs D may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs D in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs D would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morsess liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have provided Mrs D with loan 6. 
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs D towards 
interest, fees and charges on this loan, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything Morses may have already refunded.B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mrs D which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs D originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should pay Mrs D the total of A plus B.
D. The overall pattern of Mrs Ds borrowing for loan 6 means any information recorded 
about it is adverse, so Morses should remove this loan entirely from Mrs Ds credit 
file, if not already done.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mrs Ds complaint in part. 
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mrs D as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman