DRN-4103261
The complaint
Miss O complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK PLC (Mitsubishi), trading as Novuna  
Personal Finance, irresponsibly granted her a loan she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In April 2022, Miss O applied for and was approved for a fixed sum loan agreement provided 
by Mitsubishi. Under the terms of the agreement, Miss O was required to make 60 monthly 
payments of £148.69. The amount borrowed was £5,000 with the total repayable under the 
agreement being £8,921.40.
Miss O says that Mitsubishi didnt complete adequate affordability checks and didnt find out 
more about her personal situation. Mitsubishi didnt agree. It said that it carried out a 
thorough assessment which included checks that were fair and proportionate to ensure the 
credit was affordable. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Mitsubishi didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the loan agreement.
As Miss O doesnt agree her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mitsubishi will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
In this decision I will first consider whether Mitsubishi completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks before agreeing to the loan. I will then consider what proportionate 
checks would have shown. Lastly I will consider whether Mitsubishi acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in some other way.
Before granting the credit, Mitsubishi gathered evidence and information from Miss O about 
her ability to repay the loan. It completed a credit check to find out more about her credit 
history and financial situation. This showed a good payment history with no defaults or 
adverse markings on Miss Os credit record. Mitsubishi also used this information to help it 
work out whether Miss O would be able to meet the monthly payments, taking into account 
her income, level of overall credit and daily expenditure. Ive seen a summary of what it 
showed. Ive also seen the information Miss O provided on her application, detailing her 
occupation and salary. Mitsubishi used credit reference information to verify and validate 
these. 
Its possible that Mitsubishi failed to make adequate checks before providing Miss O with the 
loan. But even if that were the case I dont think better enquiries would have caused 
Mitsubishi to think the initial credit limit or the credit increases were unaffordable. 
I say this after looking at the information and evidence Mitsubishi gathered. Based on that, 
Im satisfied that the agreement was likely to be affordable to Miss O. In her application 
Miss O had stated her occupation and that her income was around £27,650. From that, 
Mitsubishi worked out that Miss O would have had a net monthly income of around £1,850. It 
then used credit information data to estimate her living costs and factor in her credit 
commitments. Having also allowed for the cost of the new lending, Mitsubishi thought there 
would be enough disposable income for it to be affordable. 
I agree with our adjudicator that the information in Miss Os credit file is broadly consistent 
with the information Mitsubishi had gathered about Miss Os financial situation at the time. 
Ive also seen a copy of Miss Os bank statement covering the period from two months 
before she started the agreement. This doesnt show evidence of earned income being paid 
in at that time  it is possible it was being paid to another bank account - although I can see 
Miss O was also receiving around £1,500 in state benefits per month. 
Taking all of this into account, I havent seen enough evidence or information to show or 
suggest that Miss O was struggling significantly with her credit commitments or household 
finances at the time or that her overall financial situation was deteriorating to the extent that 
the additional monthly cost of the loan would be unsustainable. For these reasons, I dont 
think Mitsubishi acted unfairly when approving the loan application.
Miss O told us she was experiencing poor mental health at the time she took out the loan. In 
June 2022, as a result of Miss O taking steps to sort out what had become a worrying debt 
situation for her, Mitsubishi agreed to assist her with a debt management plan she was 
arranging so that she could make reduced payments. In circumstances like this, we usually 
expect businesses to treat consumers with reasonable forbearance. Although Miss O was 
hoping to enter into an IVA arrangement, this wasnt possible. Ive seen that Miss O blames 
Mitsubishi for this. But in any event, having established that Mitsubishi had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks before granting the credit, I would not have necessarily 
expected it to be aware of Miss Os health situation from those checks. So I think it acted 
fairly as soon as it became aware that Miss O was struggling financially. 
It follows that I dont think that taking on the monthly payments required under the 
agreement could be considered to be unaffordable. I therefore dont consider Mitsubishi 
acted unfairly when approving the loan application.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 June 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman