DRN-2962416
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that a van supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with Black 
Horse Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 22 February 2020, Mr B was supplied with a used passenger van through a hire 
purchase agreement with Black Horse. He paid a deposit of £1,000 and the agreement was 
for £23,000 over 60 months; with monthly repayments of £441.95. At the time, the van was 
almost two years old and had done 25,968 miles. 
Despite this being a commercial vehicle, Mr B has confirmed the van was for his personal 
use, and he wasnt using it for commercial purposes. 
On 25 February 2020, shortly after taking possession of the van, Mr B complained about 
problems with the cruise control, and the weather strip on the front door. These issues were 
repaired under warranty by the supplying dealership on 17 June 2020.
In August 2020, Mr B complained that the engine management light (EML) was illuminating; 
and that the front storage compartments were clicking when the van was in motion. It was 
around this time it was noted that paint was also peeling from the front bumper. The 
supplying dealership cleared a fault with the diesel particulate filter (DPF) and offered to fix 
the faulty storage compartments. But they didnt take responsibility for the peeling paint.
Mr B complained to Black Horse in September 2020, and they arranged for an independent 
engineer to inspect the van. At the time of the inspection (February 2021) Mr B also 
complained that the infotainment system wasnt working, and that the rear central seat 
wasnt folding as it should.
Following the independent engineers inspection Black Horse said the cruise control and 
weather strip had been fixed and that the supplying dealership were prepared to replace the 
faulty front storage compartments. But they were of the opinion that all of the other issues 
were wear and tear items due to the vans age and mileage. However, Black Horse offered 
Mr B £250 compensation for any trouble and upset the faults with the van may have caused, 
and for the delay in them dealing with his complaint.
Mr B wasnt happy with Black Horses response, and he referred his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said it was clear from the independent engineers report that there were 
faults with the van  there was peeling paint on the front bumper, the dashboard storage lids 
were faulty, and the centre seat didnt fold as it should. But he didnt think there were faults 
with the EML or the infotainment system, as these hadnt been able to be replicated.
The investigator said that, due to the age and mileage of the van, and because Mr B 
reported the faults at intervals over the time he was in possession of the van, he didnt think 
the faults were present when the van was supplied to Mr B  given the higher than average 
usage, he thought these faults wouldve presented themselves earlier if the van was faulty 
when supplied. So the investigator said that the van was of a satisfactory quality when 
supplied, and Black Horse didnt need to do anything more.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator. He said the outcome wasnt fair and that we only give 
the illusion of being a regulatory body who tries to protect customers. Because of this he 
thinks that were unfit for purpose. Hes also referred to social media comments from other 
complainants whose complaint also werent upheld. 
Mr B has also said that the independent engineer isnt independent, as theyre an 
unregulated private company; and hes unhappy that the warranty company cancelled his 
warranty without reason and banned him from their stores. So hes asked for an ombudsman 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr B was supplied with a van under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. And, because the van wasnt being used for commercial 
purposes, the relevant law is the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
The CRA says, amongst other things, that the van shouldve been of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Black Horse are responsible. 
Whats satisfactory is determined by things such what a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory given the price, description and other relevant circumstances. In a case like this, 
this would include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale; and the vehicles 
history and its durability. Durability means that the components of the van must last a 
reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the van was supplied, unless Black Horse can show otherwise. But, where a fault is 
identified after the first six months, its for Mr B to show that it was present when the van was 
supplied. So, if I thought the van was faulty when Mr B took possession of it, and this made 
the van not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Black Horse to put this 
right.Before I address the complaint itself, Id like to take this opportunity to explain the scope of 
my decision. The Financial Ombudsman Service is not a regulatory body  thats the 
Financial Conduct Authority  but an independent complaints handling service acting as an 
alternative to the courts. Its not our role to act for either the consumer or the financial 
business. Each complaint is dealt with on its own merits, with regards to the evidence, and 
what may or may not have happened to a different customer (with a different complaint in 
different circumstances) has no bearing on how this complaint is considered.
Also, Im only considering the actions of Black Horse. I appreciate Mr B is unhappy with the 
actions of the warranty company, but Black Horse didnt supply the warranty. Nor would they 
have been involved in any decision to end the warranty. Because of this, I wont be 
commenting on what the warranty company may or may not have done.
Ive seen a copy of the independent engineers report, dated 3 February 2021. At the time of 
the inspection the van had travelled 42,153 miles  16,185 miles more than when it was 
supplied to Mr B. The report says that the paint had started to flake off a bumper; that two 
dashboard storage cabinets are faulty; and that the centre rear seat didnt tilt forwards as it 
should. But the engineer also said that he couldnt replicate any fault with the EML or the 
infotainment system; that the cruise control operated as intended; and that the loose weather 
strip had been fixed.
The engineer concluded that the identified faults with the paint, storage compartments, and 
seat have been caused by in service wear and tear. The engineer also said that the faults 
werent present when the van was supplied to Mr B.
Mr B has commented on the independence of the engineer who produced this report. The 
engineers duty is to the courts (as confirmed in the report) and not to whoever requested or 
paid for the report. The engineer also referred to the Civil Procedure Rules and the Protocol 
for Instruction of Experts to give Evidence in Civil Claims. So, while the engineer may be 
employed by a private company, given the duty and the rules followed, Im satisfied that its 
reasonable to rely on this report when making my decision.
Mr B was supplied with the van in February 2020, and Ive seen that the cruise control and 
weather strip were repaired under warranty in June 2020. Given the need for the warranty 
repairs, Im satisfied that Mr B started to have some problems with the van within the first six 
months of supply. The CRA allows for one chance of repair, and this repair has taken place. 
Mr B hasnt complained of any recurring problems with the cruise control or weather strip, 
and the independent engineer has said that these operated as intended. So Im satisfied this 
repair was successful.
The other issues Mr B has complained about all occurred after hed been in possession of 
the van for around six months or longer. Its not disputed that there is an issue with the 
storage boxes, and Mr B turned down an offer from the supplying dealership to repair this.
The dealership also cleared a fault with the DPF, and Ive seen no evidence that the EML 
has been illuminating since this point. 
The independent engineer has said that the issues with the paint and seat are as a result of 
age-related wear and tear. And Mr B hasnt provided anything to show that these issues 
were present at the point of supply. So, without any evidence to the contrary, Im satisfied 
that age-related wear and tear is more likely than not the case. And these issues werent 
present when the van was supplied to Mr B. 
Because of the above, I wont be asking Black Horse to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Black Horse Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman