DRN-2969523
The complaint
Mr E complained that Tandem Bank Limited (Tandem) didnt provide him with a paper 
statement.  
What happened
Mr E had a credit card account with Tandem. He contacted Tandem on 12 August 2020 as 
hed received an email telling him a statement was ready to view in Tandems app. Mr E 
was, however, unable to view the statement as he no longer had a credit card account with 
Tandem. Mr E asked Tandem to post him a copy of his August 2020 statement, which it 
agreed to do. And Mr E also asked for all future statements to be posted to him, as he was 
registered to receive statements in that way. 
Mr E contacted Tandem again twice in November 2020, as he hadnt received the 
statement. He also raised a complaint. Tandem sent an email to Mr E and explained it 
thought Mr E had received the August statement and was expecting subsequent statements. 
It said it had since arranged for the August 2020 statement to be sent to him by post. 
Tandem then responded formally to Mr Es complaint on 19 January 2021. It upheld the 
complaint and acknowledged the original request in August 2020 was not processed 
properly. Tandem offered Mr E £25 as an apology for the inconvenience he experienced.  
Mr E didnt accept Tandems offer of £25 as he didnt think it reflected the inconvenience 
caused and it didnt resolve the issue of the August statement or future statements. 
Tandem responded and told Mr E that as his credit card account was closed, no further 
statements would be produced unless a refund was issued by a merchant. It didnt increase 
the compensation already offered to Mr E. 
Mr E was unhappy with Tandems response and so complained to this service. He said he 
still hadnt received the August statement. He asked for the statement to be sent to him and 
for a reasonable amount of compensation to be offered. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. She said Tandem had been able to show 
the August 2020 statement had been sent in November 2020. So the £25 already offered 
was fair. Our investigator emailed a copy of the August 2020 statement to Mr E. 
Mr E responded and said Tandem didnt tell him it sent the statement in November 2020 and 
that it ignored his correspondence after it issued its final response to his complaint. Our 
investigator explained that this service can only look at complaint points that a business has 
already had the opportunity to address, which is points covered in the final response letter.  
Tandem, however, then gave this service permission to look at all points connected to this 
complaint, irrespective of whether Tandem had the opportunity to respond to them first. 
Our investigator considered the new complaint points. She said shed seen a chain of emails 
between Mr E and Tandem in November 2020 where it confirmed Mr E was told the 
statement had been sent out. She also said Tandem could have sent the statement when 
Mr E contacted it after receiving the final response letter, but it might not have as Mr E 
advised it he was referring his complaint to this service. Our investigator said she wasnt 
going to ask Tandem to take any further action. 
Mr E didnt agree with what our investigator said, so this has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
Tandem has already acknowledged that it didnt send out the August 2020 statement to Mr E 
when he first contacted it in mid-August 2020. It should have done this, and so offered £25 
compensation for the inconvenience Mr E experienced. So what Im looking at now is 
whether this amount is fair, taking into consideration the new complaint points raised by 
Mr E. And Im satisfied it is fair. Ill explain why. 
All parties here agree Mr E wasnt sent a statement in August 2020 when he should have 
been, and he had to contact Tandem twice in November 2020 to sort this out. 
I know that Mr E also said he then didnt receive the statement sent in November 2020. I 
dont doubt this. But what I need to look at here is whether Tandem sent the statement, not 
whether Mr E received it. This is because Tandem isnt responsible for what happens to post 
once its sent out, as the delivery of post is outside its control. 
I can see that the system notes provided by Tandem show that a letter was sent by Tandem 
to Mr E on 23 November 2020. And it seems likely this was the August 2020 statement. 
Mr Es address was correctly listed on Tandems system and the address on the statement 
was also correct. So while I understand Mr Es frustration at not receiving the statement after 
he needed to chase Tandem for it, I can only hold Tandem responsible for posting the 
statement. So although it wasnt delivered, Tandem did what it could to send it to Mr E. 
I know that Mr E says he wasnt told in November 2020 that Tandem sent the statement out 
at that point, but the email chain Ive seen clearly shows that Tandem sent an email to Mr E 
on 25 November 2020 and said I have since arranged for your August 2020 statement to be 
sent to you via the post which I expect to be with you in a few working days
Mr E also said Tandem didnt respond to correspondence after it sent him a response to his 
complaint in January 2021. Tandem explained it didnt appear Mr E claimed he hadnt 
received the statement after it sent the final response letter. Ive seen the relevant email 
chain and my impression was the Mr E was reiterating to Tandem that the reason for his 
complaint was that he didnt receive the statement. I didnt think Mr E was letting Tandem 
know that he still hadnt received the statement. So I think its understandable given that 
Mr E also told Tandem at this point he was referring this matter to our service, that Tandem 
didnt re-send a copy of the statement to Mr E. 
So the avoidable inconvenience experienced by Mr E here is that he needed to get in 
contact with Tandem on two occasions in November 2020 to try and get a copy of the 
statement sent to him. 
And, while I understand that Mr E will undoubtedly have been inconvenienced by not 
receiving the statement after it was sent in November 2020 and by expecting that Tandem 
would respond to him in January 2021 and re-send the statement, I could only fairly ask Tandem to compensate him for inconveniences for which it was responsible. So I think the 
£25 already offered as compensation is fair and Im not asking Tandem to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman