DRN-4070162
The complaint
Mr S complains about poor mortgage advice from Suitable Choices Limited. He says the 
mortgage offer it secured for him expired before his existing product expired. He was unable 
to re-mortgage and consolidate debt, and by the time he took out a new interest rate product 
rates had increased. He asks for compensation for his higher debt repayment costs.
What happened
Mr Ss interest rate product was due to expire at the end of December 2022. He took 
mortgage advice from Suitable Choices in June 2022. Suitable Choices submitted an 
application on Mr Ss behalf and he received a mortgage offer in July 2022. This expired two 
weeks before his product was due to expire. A new application was submitted but this was 
declined. 
Mr S was unable to re-mortgage and took out a new product with his existing lender. He 
says the interest rate is higher and he hasnt been able to consolidate unsecured debts or 
repay his help to buy loan. 
Our investigator said the expiry date was decided by the lender, not Suitable Choice. The 
lender declined the second application due to undisclosed credit commitments, and this 
would have been the same if the first application had been made later. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said Suitable Choice should have known the maximum offer is six 
months, and the timing depends on the date of the application. He said Suitable Choice 
should have made sure he secured a mortgage offer that suited his needs. He said any 
change in his credit position was due to having to borrow more as the impact of the loss of 
the first mortgage offer had to be prepared for.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S wanted to re-mortgage, consolidate unsecured debts and pay off a help to buy loan. 
Mr Ss existing product was due to expire on 31 December 2022. He intended to re-
mortgage in January 2023, so as not to incur an early repayment charge. Suitable Choice 
said there were limited options due to Mr Ss circumstances.
Suitable Choice recommended a mortgage and submitted an application. Interest rates were 
increasing in mid-2022. I think it was fair for Suitable Choice to submit an application for 
Mr S in June 2022. There was a risk rates might increase if it waited. 
The lender issued a mortgage offer on 21 July 2022. The offer was valid until 20 December 
2022. This was before Mr Ss product expired. Mortgage offers can be valid for up to six 
months. I havent seen anything to suggest that Suitable Choice should have known the 
lender would issue a mortgage offer that was valid for five months. Suitable Choice couldnt 
tell the lender what expiry date to include. This was the lenders decision.
The mortgage offer was issued on 21 July 2022 and Suitable Choice contacted the lender 
about extending the offer in late July 2022. I dont think there were any delays by Suitable 
Choice here. 
The lender said the application had to be re-submitted  that was the lenders process when 
an applicant wanted a mortgage offer to be valid for a longer period. The lender declined the 
application, saying this was due to undisclosed credit commitments. An application was 
made to a second lender which said it wouldnt lend as much as Mr S wanted to borrow. I 
think it was fair for Suitable Choice to apply to these lenders. It wasnt responsible for the 
lending decisions made by the lenders.
In his complaint to Suitable Choice, Mr S said I understood that the deal which would have 
paid all my credit cards off was done. Having understood this, I used cards to a degree 
because I felt there was light at the end of the tunnel. I did that only because of [Suitable 
Choices] failed advice and so if the position changed Im afraid that was due to [it] also.
In his response to our investigators view Mr S said he had to borrow more as the impact of 
the loss of the first mortgage offer had to be prepared for. This contradicts what he said in 
his complaint (that he borrowed more because he thought the deal to repay his debts was 
done). Either way, I dont think its fair to say that Suitable Choice was responsible for Mr Ss 
decision to increase his unsecured debts. It seems this increase in his credit commitments 
was a major factor in Mr S being unable to re-mortgage.
Id also note that the mortgage offer issued in July 2022 set out conditions. This included that 
Mr S had to repay a list of credit commitments (unsecured debts and the help to buy loan) in 
full within 30 days of completion of this mortgage without taking on further borrowing. The 
offer also said the lender can withdraw the offer if information materially changes and the 
change affects the decision to lend. So, even if the offer had been valid for six months, the 
lender might have withdrawn the offer if it became aware of Mr Ss higher credit 
commitments. 
Mr S took out a new interest rate product with his lender. Mr S says his monthly debt 
repayments are higher than they would have been if hed been able to re-mortgage and 
raise additional funds to consolidate his unsecured debts and repay his help to buy loan. I 
understand his disappointment. But I dont think Suitable Choice made errors when it gave 
Mr S mortgage advice. It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require it to pay 
compensation to Mr S for the cost of his debts.
Suitable Choice waived its fee (about £450). I dont think it needs to do more.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman