DRN-3240185
The complaint
Mr T complains UK Credit Limited did not offer suitable forbearance in relation to a loan it 
had supplied him.
Mr T is represented by a third party, but for ease Ill refer to all submissions as if they were 
made directly by Mr T.
What happened
UK Credit provided Mr T with a £4,500 loan in November 2014. The term of the loan was 60 
months.
Mr T says he contacted UK Credit in late 2015/early 2016 to inform it he had been dismissed 
from his place of work. Mr T says this is because he had suffered a long-term illness; and his 
former employer had dismissed him as he was unable to return to work. Mr T says he 
notified UK Credit that he had been in receipt of the employers sick pay; but this had ended 
in June 2015 when he was dismissed. Mr T says since this time he has been in receipt of 
benefits payments. Mr T says that UK Credit did not offer him suitable forbearance when he 
notified it of this change in his circumstances.
UK Credit responded to Mr Ts complaint saying that it only had one record of contact from 
Mr T and that this was in 2017 to change his payment date. UK Credit says it was not 
notified by Mr T of the change in his circumstances; and there were no signs of financial 
hardship on his account as he continued to meet his regular repayments. UK Credit says the 
loan was settled in line with the original terms in 2019.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Ts complaint be upheld. In coming to this conclusion 
he highlighted:
There was no record of the contact from Mr T to UK Credit in 2015 or 2016;
That on balance he thought it was therefore more likely Mr T only contacted UK 
Credit in 2017;
There were no indications of Mr T informing UK Credit of his financial hardship; and
There were no indications of distress as his account seemed to be repaid on time 
and in full.
Mr T disagreed with the assessment and maintained he had contacted UK Credit to inform it 
of his change in finances. 
Mr T also latterly raised concerns the loan itself mayve been mis-sold to him. Our 
investigator explained he would need to raise this as a separate complaint to UK Credit; as 
he had not yet given it the right to investigate his concerns.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by explaining this final decision will only cover Mr Ts concerns in relation to UK 
Credits actions to his change in financial circumstances from 2015 onwards. Our 
investigator correctly explained any concerns Mr T may have over the sale of the loan will 
need to be first directed to UK Credit as a separate complaint. Nothing I say in this decision 
should be considered as a comment on the potential complaint Mr T may have in relation to 
that complaint. 
In relation to this complaint; Im satisfied that UK Credit does not need to do anything further. 
This is for largely the same reasons that our investigator highlighted to Mr T.
When our service receives conflicting or incomplete information; I have to make a decision 
based on the balance of probabilities. That is to say I have to decide what I think is more 
likely than not to have happened. In coming to that decision I need to rely on the information 
from both parties.
In this instance; whist I understand the strength of Mr Ts point of view; I dont have sufficient 
information to say it is more likely than not that Mr T did contact UK Credit in either late 2015 
or early 2016.
This is because there is no record of this communication which Ive been presented with by 
either party. Instead; what I do have is a record of the contact Mr T had with UK Credit in 
2017. This is in the form of contact notes from UK Credit. These notes suggest that Mr T 
contacted UK Credit in regards to payment dates. The notes dont suggest he raised 
concerns about his ability to meet the necessary repayments; or that he discussed his 
change of financial circumstances with UK Credit.
Mr T maintains he did contact UK Credit during the period he says he did. And whilst I have 
no reason to doubt Mr T; I also dont have sufficient evidence to support his complaint. In 
contrast; UK Credit says it records all contact; and I also have no reason to doubt this 
submission either - especially given it did have records of later discussions with Mr T.
So; overall  on balance  I think its more likely than not Mr T contacted UK Credit in 2017. 
And this communication did not involve discussions of forbearance measures. 
It follows that as I dont think Mr T informed UK Credit of his financial hardship I cant say     
UK Credit acted unfairly in how it treated Mr T during the term of the loan.
Whilst I make no comment or finding on the sale of the loan (and any potential complaints 
associated with it); Im unable  based on what information Ive seen - to say UK Credit 
oughtve known Mr T was in financial hardship and offered proactive support either.
As such Im unable to say UK Credit acted unfairly in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against UK Credit Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman