DRN-4240998
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC approved him for a loan which he feels wasnt
affordable for him at that time.
What happened
In December 2018, Mr G applied to Barclays for a personal loan of £16,200 which was to be
repaid over 60 months at £303.59 per month. Mr Gs application was successful, and he
received the loan funds shortly afterwards.
In July 2022, Mr G raised a complaint with Barclays because he felt Barclays had provided
the loan to him in 2018 irresponsibly, and that he hadnt in fact been able to afford the loan
Barclays provided to him at that time.
Barclays responded to Mr Gs complaint and confirmed that theyd undertaken checks into
his financial position before approving his loan application and that they remained satisfied
that there hadnt been anything resulting from those checks to suggest that Mr G wouldnt
have been able to afford the loan he was applying for. Mr G wasnt satisfied with Barclays
response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Barclays had acted
irresponsibly or unfairly by approving Mr Gs loan application as they had. Mr G remained
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 9 June 2023 as follows:
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how 
much and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before 
approving a customer for a new line of credit such as personal loan, the business 
would undertake reasonable and proportionate borrower focussed checks to ensure 
that any credit being offered to a customer is affordable for that customer at that time.
Barclays believe that they did that here and note that at the time of the application 
they took information from Mr G about his employment status and annual income, as 
well as obtained information about him from a credit reference agency to get a better 
understanding of Mr Gs wider financial position.
Barclays used a combination of obtained information and modelling to assess Mr G 
as having monthly income of £2,060 and monthly expenditure of £1,190. This meant 
Barclays assessed Mr G as having monthly disposable income of approximately 
£870, and so they felt that Mr G would reasonably be able to afford the monthly 
payments of £303.59 for the loan he was applying for.
Notably however, Mr G lived in a shared ownership property, whereby he paid a 
mortgage towards the portion of the property he owned and rent towards the portion 
of the property he hadnt yet been able to buy. Barclays dont appear to have 
recognised this, and I say this because while their expenditure assessment for Mr G 
includes a monthly mortgage amount, it doesnt include the monthly amount that Mr 
G had to concurrently pay. As such, Im not convinced that Barclays assessment of 
Mr Gs income and expenditure was accurate.
Additionally, Mr G has provided this service with a series of letters received from 
Barclays on an almost monthly basis in the year leading up to the loan application. 
These letters were regarding Mr Gs Barclays current account and note that Mr G 
had incurred charges on that account. This was because Mr G regularly maintained 
the balance of his current account in an overdrawn position, and incurred charges as 
a result.
Furthermore, Barclays assessed Mr G as having a net annual income of 
approximately £24,000 and were aware of existing unsecured borrowing by Mr G of 
approximately £10,400. As such, by lending this further £16,200 to Mr G  of which 
£2,200 was used by Mr G to repay other borrowing  Barclays were increasing Mr 
Gs level of total indebtedness by £14,000.
This meant that Mr Gs total level of unsecured borrowing increased to roughly 
£22,200, which is amount greater than 90% of Mr Gs net annual income. This 
doesnt feel fair to me, because I dont feel that such a large debt-to-income ratio can 
reasonably be considered as being sustainable.
As such, the picture that presents itself here in regard to this provision of credit to Mr 
G by Barclays is that Barclays increased Mr Gs level of debt to a unsustainable level 
after inaccurately assessing his income and expenditure at a time when I feel that the 
regular charges Mr G was incurring on his Barclays current account should have 
given Barclays cause to suspect that Mr G might not be in the relatively good 
financial position that they assessed him to be.
It therefore follows that my provisional decision here will be that Ill upholding this 
complaint in Mr Gs favour and instructing Barclays to take the following action:
Barclays must reimburse to Mr G all interest, fees and charges incurred or
accrued on the loan from the point of inception.
If these reimbursements result in there being a credit balance in Mr Gs 
favour, Barclays must pay that balance to Mr G along with 8% simple interest 
calculated to the date of payment.
If there is no outstanding balance on the loan for Mr G to pay, Barclays must 
also remove all adverse reporting regarding this loan from Mr Gs credit file 
from the point of the loan inception.
If the above instructed reimbursements result in a balance remaining 
outstanding on the loan for Mr G to pay, Barclays should contact Mr G to 
arrange a suitable interest free repayment plan with him.
And if there is a balance on the loan remaining for Mr G to pay, Barclays 
should remove all adverse credit file reporting relating to this loan only after 
Mr G has repaid that balance in full.These instructions are based on the position that Mr G did receive the loan amount 
and benefited from it, regardless of it being provided irresponsibly, and so I feel its 
fair that he should pay back the capital balance of the loan that he received.
Barclays responded to my provisional decision letter and provided some further information 
about Mr Gs monthly expenditure which Im satisfied shows that they did take account of 
payments that were ultimately used by Mr G to pay the monthly rent owed on his property. 
Barclays also argued that because Mr Gs loan is fully up to date and has never been in 
arrears, then it must be the case that the loan was affordable for him. But the question here 
isnt whether Mr G was able to make his loan payments, but whether Barclays should have 
fairly provided that loan to him  given the information about Mr G they obtained when the 
loan was applied for.
And it remains the case that, at the point of application, Barclays assessed Mr G as having a 
net annual income of approximately £24,000 and were aware of existing unsecured 
borrowing by Mr G of approximately £10,400. And so, I continue to feel that, by increasing 
Mr Gs total level of unsecured borrowing to approximately £22,200  which was over 90% of 
Mr Gs net annual income  Barclays were facilitating Mr G with a level of overall unsecured 
debt that wasnt reasonably sustainable in consideration of his income and which he couldnt 
reasonably afford. 
Accordingly, it remains my position here that Barclays have provided this loan to Mr G 
irresponsibly, and as such my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in Mr Gs favour 
on the basis described above.
Putting things right
Barclays must reimburse to Mr G all interest, fees and charges incurred or accrued on the 
loan from the point of inception.
If these reimbursements result in there being a credit balance in Mr Gs favour, Barclays 
must pay that balance to Mr G along with 8% simple interest calculated to the date of 
payment.
If there is no outstanding balance on the loan for Mr G to pay, Barclays must also remove all 
adverse reporting regarding this loan from Mr Gs credit file from the point of the loan 
inception.
If the above instructed reimbursements result in a balance remaining outstanding on the loan 
for Mr G to pay, Barclays should contact Mr G to arrange a suitable interest free repayment 
plan with him.
And if there is a balance on the loan remaining for Mr G to pay, Barclays should remove all 
adverse credit file reporting relating to this loan only after Mr G has repaid that balance in 
full.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC on the basis 
explained above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman