DRN-4351830
The complaint
Miss M complains about the way that HSBC Life (UK) Limited handled an incapacity claim 
she made on a group income protection insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties. So Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the key events.
Miss M is insured under her employers group income protection scheme. The policy 
includes a deferred period of 26 weeks.
In June 2022, Miss M was signed-off from work suffering from severe fatigue. In August 
2022, an incapacity claim was made on the policy. HSBC Life asked Miss Ms GP for a copy 
of her medical records in early October 2022. Unfortunately, the GP didnt provide HSBC 
Life with a copy of Miss Ms medical records for around 16 weeks  until 27 January 2023. 
So HSBC Life wasnt in a position to make a decision on Miss Ms claim.
Subsequently, in early February 2023, HSBC Life decided to accept Miss Ms claim. It also 
asked a third-party wellbeing company to contact Miss M to support her with her recovery. 
However, HSBC Life didnt let Miss M know that the claim had been accepted, or that shed 
be contacted by the third-party. Miss M only learned both of these things when the third-
party company called her.
HSBC Life contacted Miss M to let her know that her claim had been accepted and would be 
backdated to the end of the deferred period  5 December 2022. The claims handler told 
Miss M that benefit would be paid in February 2023. But this wasnt the case. Ultimately, 
Miss M wasnt paid benefit until March 2023. She said shed had to borrow money from a 
relative and be paid an emergency advance from her employer.
Miss M was unhappy with HSBC Lifes handling of her claim and she complained. She 
asked the complaint handler to listen to all of her calls with the claims handlers. She also felt 
that by passing on her details to the third-party wellbeing company, HSBC Life had breached 
data protection laws.
HSBC Life concluded that it hadnt handled Miss Ms claim as it well as it should have done. 
It accepted that one of its claims handlers had wrongly told Miss M that benefit would be 
paid in February 2023. It accepted too that another claims handler had wrongly told Miss M 
there was provision for benefit to be paid on-account outside the policy terms. This wasnt 
the case and would only happen in exceptional circumstances. HSBC Life agreed that Miss 
M should have been told before a referral to the third-party wellbeing company was made. It 
acknowledged that it could have pro-actively assisted Miss M in arranging an emergency 
payment from her employer. It apologised for the financial and emotional concerns its 
handling of the claim had caused Miss M, although it felt its claims handlers had treated Miss 
M sympathetically and empathically. It paid Miss M £1000 compensation.
Miss M remained unhappy with HSBC Lifes handling of her claim and of her complaint. She 
felt the complaint handler had been rude to her and that HSBC Life hadnt responded to her 
complaint in a timely way. She was also unhappy that the complaint handler hadnt listened 
to all of her calls with its claims handlers. While HSBC Life issued a second final response 
letter which accepted that the complaint handler hadnt dealt with a call with Miss M in an 
appropriate way, it concluded that overall, it had already paid her fair compensation.
Remaining dissatisfied with HSBC Lifes responses, Miss M asked us to look into her 
complaint. She was also concerned that thered been a further breach of data protection 
laws and she didnt feel that HSBC Life had recognised her vulnerabilities when it assessed 
her claim or looked into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think HSBC Life had handled Miss Ms claim in the way it should have 
done. He thought the claim could have been paid sooner. And he thought the service Miss M 
had received from HSBC Life would have caused her some frustration and upset. But 
overall, he felt that £1000 was fair compensation to recognise the impact HSBC Lifes 
service errors had had on Miss M.
Miss M disagreed and Ive summarised her responses to our investigator:
She felt that HSBC Life hadnt considered or addressed her vulnerability, which she 
thought it was required to do. She stated that a vulnerable marker hadnt been placed 
on her file. The compensation shed been paid didnt take account of her 
vulnerability;
The complaint handler hadnt listened to all of her calls with HSBC Lifes claims 
handlers. Her calls with the first claims handler were key to understanding her 
vulnerabilities. Compensation had been awarded without taking a holistic view of the 
events;
She considered that as the calls hadnt been listened to, the outcome which had 
been reached wasnt evidence-based;
She questioned again the further data breach she felt shed identified.  
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Miss M, I think HSBC Life has already 
paid her fair compensation and Ill explain why.
First, I was sorry to hear of Miss Ms illness. I dont doubt what a difficult and upsetting time 
this has been for Miss M and her family. Id also like to reassure Miss M that whilst Ive 
summarised the background to her complaint and her detailed submissions to us, Ive 
carefully considered all shes said and sent us. In this decision though, I havent commented 
on each point shes been raised and nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on 
what I think are the key issues.
I must also make it clear that under our rules, I can only consider complaints once a financial 
business has had an opportunity to look into them and to issue a final response. I appreciate 
Miss M has real concerns about what she considers to be a second data breach by HSBC 
Life when it paid her compensation. Ive looked carefully at both final response letters to Miss Ms complaint points and the second data breach hasnt been addressed by HSBC Life. 
In the circumstances and given Miss Ms strength of feeling about this issue, I dont think it 
would be appropriate for me to consider that point here. In my view, it would be more 
appropriate for Miss M to raise a new and separate complaint about that issue with HSBC 
Life and/or to bring her concerns to the Information Commissioners Office for investigation. 
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. HSBC Life accepts that it didnt handle 
Miss Ms claim as well as it should have done and that it caused Miss M anxiety, upset and 
inconvenience. Its already paid Miss M £1000 compensation. So I now need to consider 
whether I think this was a fair award in all the circumstances.
In August 2022, an incapacity claim was made on the policy. Under the terms of Miss Ms 
employers contract with HSBC Life, in order for benefit to be paid, a claim must meet the 
policy definition of incapacity, for the entire 26-week period and beyond. Its a general 
principle of insurance that its an insureds responsibility to provide enough evidence to show 
they have a valid claim on their policy. This means that Miss M needed to provide HSBC Life 
with enough medical evidence to demonstrate that she was incapacitated, in line with the 
policy terms.
On that basis, I find that it was reasonable and appropriate for HSBC Life to request medical 
information in order to assess Miss Ms claim. Ive seen a copy of a consultants letter dated 
December 2022, which indicated that Miss Ms condition wouldnt generally preclude her 
from working, so I dont think it was unfair for HSBC Life to require more evidence prior to 
accepting the claim. The majority of the claim delay appears to have been down to the GP 
taking 16 weeks to provide Miss Ms medical records. I cant fairly or reasonably hold HSBC 
Life responsible for any delays on the part of the GP practice.
Nor do I think it was unreasonable for HSBC Life to decline to pay Miss M an on-account 
benefit payment prior to all the medical evidence being received and assessed. This simply 
isnt something HSBC Life has chosen to include in the policy terms. I appreciate that HSBC 
Life says such a payment may be made in exceptional circumstances. But in this case, it 
says the consultants letter of December 2022 simply wasnt enough to show the policy 
terms would be met. As Ive explained, I dont think this was an unfair position for HSBC Life 
to take. And I dont think that in these circumstances, it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
find that HSBC Life ought to have paid the claim before it was satisfied that Miss Ms claim 
was covered by the policy terms. 
However, I do think there were avoidable delays in HSBC Lifes handling of this claim. It 
appears HSBC Life were notified of the claim in August 2022, but that it didnt ask for 
medical evidence until early October 2022. While the deferred period didnt end until 
December 2022 (and it therefore appears that the earliest Miss M couldve received benefit 
was January 2023), it seems to me that the claim couldve been progressed and settled 
some weeks sooner than it was. In my view, its more likely than not that benefit payments 
couldve commenced in January 2023, rather than around two months later. I appreciate the 
delay in payment caused Miss M unnecessary worry, upset and inconvenience  and that 
she had to borrow money from a family member.
It's clear too that even once HSBC Life had decided to accept the claim, it made further 
errors. The policy terms do require an insured member to make attempts to engage with 
rehabilitation specialists to enable a return to work, so I dont think a referral to a third-party 
wellbeing company with details of Miss Ms health and claim was unreasonable. I note Miss 
M signed a consent form which authorised HSBC Life to share her medical reports with third 
parties. But HSBC Life acknowledges that it failed to let Miss M know either that her claim 
had been accepted or that a referral had been made. And I dont doubt how frustrating it was when Miss M received a call she wasnt expecting and learned about the referral that had 
been made.
And HSBC Lifes claims handler also wrongly told Miss M that shed be paid benefit in 
February 2023. Given what Miss M has told us about her financial situation at the time, I can 
entirely understand how disappointing, worrying and distressing it was when Miss M learned 
that this wasnt correct and she wasnt paid until March 2023. I was pleased to hear that 
Miss M was able to access an emergency payment from her employer  but I dont think this 
negates HSBC Lifes error, nor its failure to proactively assist Miss M in making such a 
request to her employer. I say that because HSBC Life accepts that it ought to have done 
so.
Id add too that it must have been even more upsetting for Miss M when she spoke with the 
complaints handler and felt that shed been treated rudely. HSBC Life agreed that the call 
was unacceptable and I appreciate that this would have caused Miss M even more upset at 
a time when she was already very distressed, unwell and unhappy with the service shed 
received from HSBC Life.
It's clear then that HSBC Life did make significant mistakes in its handling of Miss Ms claim. 
I think these are likely to have added to Miss Ms trouble, upset and anxiety at a time when 
she was inevitably worried about her health and personal situation. So I find it was 
appropriate and fair for HSBC Life to conclude that it should pay Miss M compensation to 
reflect the impact of its claims handling and service on her. 
Miss M has real concerns that HSBC Life didnt take account of her vulnerability when it 
assessed her claim and when it looked into her complaints. I understand she wanted the 
complaint handler to listen to all of her calls with the claims handlers as part of their 
investigation. However, based on what Ive seen, I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC 
Life to conclude its investigation based on what the complaint handler felt was relevant 
evidence. Thats because I think the first final response letter shows theyd understood Miss 
Ms concerns and had acknowledged many of them. And I note that their final response 
refers to Miss M being in a vulnerable position and acknowledged her concern, worry and 
upset at the time. The final response also states that HSBC Life didnt dispute that its errors 
had caused Miss M anxiety and concern, especially at such a challenging time, when (she 
was) unwell and unable to work. So I think HSBC Life did take into account Miss Ms 
vulnerability when it investigated her complaints and took this into account when calculating 
a global compensation award. 
Ive thought very carefully about the compensation HSBC Life has paid Miss M. In my view, 
it has been calculated holistically and taking into account the errors HSBC Life accepts it 
made. I must make it clear that our compensation awards arent designed to fine or punish 
the businesses we cover. Instead, theyre designed to reflect the likely impact of a financial 
business errors on a consumer. In these circumstances, taking into account Miss Ms ill-
health and her natural concern about her financial position while the claim remained unpaid, 
I think HSBC Lifes errors did cause Miss M significant and unnecessary upset and 
frustration and a broadly two-month period of unnecessary delay. I find that the substantial 
compensation award of £1000 which HSBC Life has already paid is fair, reasonable and 
proportionate to reflect the adverse impact HSBC Lifes errors are likely to have had on Miss 
M. So it follows that I think HSBC Life has already paid Miss M fair compensation and Im not 
directing it to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that HSBC Life has already settled 
Miss Ms complaint fairly and reasonably.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman