DRN-3042700
The complaint
Mr B complains that MBNA Ltd didnt fairly or reasonably deal with claims under Sections 75 
and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to the purchase of a 
holiday product in February 2013 (the Time of Sale). The claims, which are the subject of 
this complaint, are Mr Bs because they stem from a credit card in his sole name. But as the 
transaction in question relates to a contract entered into by him and Mrs B, Ill refer to Mr and 
Mrs B at times throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B bought membership of a holiday club from a third party (the Supplier) at the 
Time of Sale. This gave them annual occupancy rights of one week at a one-bedroom unit 
for up to 4 persons during prime season. The purchase price was $26,790 and they used a 
credit card in Mr Bs name to pay for it. 
Unhappy with what happened at the Time of Sale, Mr B made claims for misrepresentation 
and an unfair relationship under Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA on 19 March 2017 using 
a professional representative (PR) (the Letter of Claim). There were a number of reasons 
for those claims  which can be summarised as follows: Section 75: 
Misrepresentation
A high number of the promises made at the Time of Sale werent reflected in the 
purchase agreement.
Mr and Mrs B were led to believe that the product was an investment which they 
could sell at any time. This turned out to be untrue. 
Section 140A: Unfair Relationship 
The Supplier acted negligently when applying undue pressure.
The Supplier failed to act in Mr and Mrs Bs best interests.
The Supplier refused access to the documentation
The Supplier denied them their rights to a statutory cooling off period.
The Supplier failed to ensure compliance and due diligence. 
The Supplier failed in its duty of care towards Mr and Mrs B. 
MBNA rejected the claim. It contacted the Supplier and concluded the contract that Mr and 
Mrs B signed did specify a cancellation clause and a 5 day cooling off period. It said the 
Supplier stated: "that neither the developer, nor any of its agents or representatives have 
made any representations or warranty whatsoever leading Members to understand that the 
execution of this contract might bring the latter economic, financial or tax benefits". 
MBNA considered Mr B had also acknowledged that when he purchased the membership 
the decision was based upon its value as a vacation experience and for spending leisure 
time, not with any expectation of deriving any profit.
The PR didnt agree and said due weight had not been given to Mr Bs witness statement. It 
also said that a consumer is not bound by a term that is unfair and the part which reads 
"neither the developer nor any agent or representative have made any representations or 
warranties whatsoever leading members to understand that the execution of this contract 
might bring the latter economic financial or tax benefits" was a proper of fair term.
The complaint was brought to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. 
He noted that Mr B had signed next to statements which set out that the product was subject 
to availability, should not be viewed as a financial investment and that no assistance would 
be given to sell the membership. He recognised that the Supplier may well have over 
emphasised the benefits of the purchase, but he didnt consider there was sufficient 
evidence of misrepresentation. 
Nor did he think there was sufficient evidence of an unfair relationship. He looked at the 
paperwork and it set out the key elements of the agreement. Nor could he see that the 
Supplier had breached the agreement.
The PR disagreed and said that in reaching a fair and reasonable conclusion this service 
should consider the law, rules and regulations and any guidance. In turn MBNA was required 
to assess the claim impartially, fairly and consider other similar complaints. It considered 
neither had done as required. It said MBNA should issue responses to complaints without 
undue delay.
It said that it had not argued that there was an unfair relationship and so had no comment on 
this.
It highlighted what it thought were the key elements of Mr Bs witness statement and said our 
investigator had not given due weight to this. In summary, it said it was clear that their client 
and his wife had been unduly pressurised and had not been given time to read the 
paperwork. It had also encouraged Mr B to increase his credit limit so he could pay the sum 
required.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service was set up by law to resolve complaints quickly and with 
minimum formality. As an informal alternative to the courts, our aim is to level the playing 
field between the consumer and the business.
Unlike the courts, we are not limited to looking only at the issues the consumer has focused 
on in their complaint. Our approach is 'inquisitorial' as opposed to the 'adversarial' 
procedures of the courts.
We do not expect consumers to present their cases to us as if they were making legal 
pleadings. We generally look beyond the particular way in which consumers express their 
complaints, which may often be quite general, to assess whether they have suffered 
financial detriment for which the businesses might be responsible.This approach was approved by the High Court in 2003 in the case of Green Denman v 
Financial Ombudsman Service [2003] EWHC 338 (Admin). As such it appropriate that I 
consider the application of S140A even though the PR has not directly referred to it. That 
said, it has alluded to unfairness.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part. 
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a: 
 Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and 
 A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain. 
There is no dispute that the chain is intact and so I have to consider if there has been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
S 56 and 140A Section 56 of the CCA is also relevant. In broad terms this means that any 
negotiations between Mr B and the Supplier are deemed to have been conducted by the 
Supplier as an agent for MBNA. This includes any representations made by the Supplier and 
any other dealings between them. 
The statutory agency created by section 56 of the CCA is also relevant in the context of 
section 140A as the pre-contractual acts or omissions of C will be deemed to be the 
responsibility of the lender, and this may be taken into account by a court in deciding 
whether an unfair relationship exists between you and the lender.
The claim has been made in time and so I am able to consider the complaint about MBNAs 
rejection of it. 
Misrepresentation
 A misrepresentation is when a false statement of fact has been made and that false 
statement of fact induced a consumer to purchase the goods or services. In order to find a 
misrepresentation has occurred, there must be proof that a false statement of fact has been 
made and it needs to be decided that that false statement induced the consumer to enter 
into the agreement. I would add that I have taken note of the relevant extract from Chitty 
referred to by the Supplier in its representations. 
I cannot say what was actually said during the meeting when the purchase was made. I have 
taken note of Mr Bs witness statement and his recollection of events some four years 
previously. I am aware that sales representatives will prioritise the positives of the product 
they are selling, but that does not mean that this amounts to a false statement of fact. Much 
of what is said can be put down to the expression of an opinion or a view. 
As our investigator has explained that the sales aids and training used by suppliers give us 
some insight into what they would likely have seen and been told during the verbal part of 
the sale. These aids highlight an imbalance in information, favouring the emotional and 
tangible benefits people would receive if they became a member and limited information on 
how the product functioned and how much it would ultimately cost across the term once 
maintenance fees and associated finance were factored in. These aids are usually carefully structured and so if properly used the likelihood of 
misrepresentation occurring is reduced. I havent seen sufficient information to suggest the 
product wasnt suitable for Mr B. I note that the product was used by his daughter and he 
sought to sell it because his wife was unable to travel anymore. That does not indicate 
dissatisfaction with the product or support for the claim that it was misrepresented.
I think it most likely having found himself not wanting to use the membership Mr B felt he had 
been misled into thinking it could be easily sold. I have seen only one email relating to his 
desire to sell and there is no record of the Suppliers response. The paperwork offers no 
support for his belief that the product could be sold and so I am reliant on his recollection set 
against the paperwork which he signed and the response from the Suppler to MBNA. 
I cannot say what actually happened and while I do not doubt Mr Bs recollection I cannot 
say that this is sufficient to allow me to overlook the documentary evidence. 
In summary there is nothing in the documentation I have seen which was signed by Mr B 
that shows any misrepresentation and I do not have sufficient evidence to allow me to ignore 
that paperwork and the defence put forward by the Supplier.
S 140A Unfair Relationship 
When considering if there was an unfair relationship I have taken due note of the sale and 
the process used by the Supplier. I do not consider it likely that court would conclude that the 
Suppliers actions as an agent of MBNA generated an unfair debtor  creditor relationship.
I appreciate that according to the PR Mr B was pressurised into taking out the agreement. I 
can understand why they have taken that view. My understanding is that these sales 
meetings ran on for many hours and the representatives of the Supplier would highlight the 
benefits of the product. I have no doubt that the techniques used would have made saying 
no more difficult, but this does not mean that it was impossible to decline the offer. As for 
him increasing his credit card limit I believe from what he says that this was done after he 
had agreed to make the purchase and I cannot conclude that this was evidence of undue 
pressure.
In summary I do not have sufficient evidence to show Mr and Mrs B were unreasonably 
pressurised to sign the agreement.
It is possible that the disclosure of information about the product couldve been clearer. So, 
Ive looked at whether this led to such an imbalance of information between the parties, that 
it gave rise to an unfair relationship. 
I believe Mr B was aware he was buying a holiday product. The paperwork set out the length 
of the contract term, how annual fees would be calculated, that it was subject to availability 
and should not be viewed as a financial investment. So, while the sales meeting mayve 
been overly weighted towards the aspirational lifestyle owning a holiday club membership 
could provide, I dont think the gap in knowledge between what he thought he was acquiring 
and what he actually got was so significant so as to suggest it could give rise to an unfair 
relationship.
I have also considered the matter of commission in relation to this transaction. Given this 
was credit card payment I do not believe this is a relevant matter. On balance I am not 
presided there is sufficient evidence to show that it would be likely a court would find there 
was an unfair relationship as set out in s 140A.
I have every sympathy with Mr and Mrs B, but I do not consider I can uphold this complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman