DRN-4095766
The complaint
Mr J complains that Leeds Building Society wouldnt honour the 3.15% interest rate he was 
told he would get for his existing and additional borrowing.
What happened
Mr J wanted to renew his mortgage product on 2 September 2022 and wanted some 
additional borrowing. Mr J tried to do this online  when a rate of 3.15% for a five-year fixed 
mortgage product was available. But because of the additional borrowing this required an 
appointment with a mortgage adviser.  Mr J had difficulty making an appointment with a 
Leeds mortgage adviser, was given one in October but then after making a complaint got a 
faster appointment.
Leeds says that during the phone appointment it told Mr J that his preferred rate would be for 
the product transfer only and not the additional borrowing and a rate of 4.05% would be 
available due to the increased loan to value (LTV) because of the additional borrowing. Mr 
J made a complaint on 16 September 2022 and on the same date, Leeds complaints 
department said that the rate of 3.15% would apply to all the borrowing. Then on 26 
September the complaint specialist after discussing the application with a colleague 
confirmed that the rate of 3.15% would apply only to a product transfer but that the additional 
borrowing would be subject to the rates available for that LTV in early September. Leeds 
offered £250 for Mr Js distress and inconvenience. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as Leeds agreed to 
honour the rate that would have been available to Mr J when he first enquired at the 
beginning of September 2022 and agreed to pay £250 for the incorrect information and Mr 
Js loss of expectation. Mr J disagreed saying in summary that he was told verbally and in 
writing that the rate of 3.15% would be available for all his borrowing and that he had to go to 
an alternative lender but secured a less favourable rate.
What Ive decided  and why. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Js complaint is that when he originally made a complaint that Leeds said that the rate of 
3.15% would be available for all his borrowing and not just the mortgage transfer. Leeds said 
that this was a mistake a short time later. It does indeed seem to have been an error and 
that rate wasnt available at the time Mr J applied for all his proposed borrowing. It was 
available for a product transfer, but his increased proposed borrowing meant an increase in 
the LTV and pushed the interest rate higher. Communication errors happen and thats what 
seems to have happened here. The question is whether Mr J suffered because of this 
misinformation from Leeds. Clearly his expectations would have been raised but then 
deflated and there should be compensation for that, and I consider that the £250 offered by 
Leeds to be fair for that. 
The other issue is whether Mr J suffered any financial loss because of the incorrect 
information he got from the Leeds adviser. Mr J is now paying a higher rate of interest than 
3.15% with an alternative lender. The rate quoted is 3.80%. But thats on the increased 
borrowing and a rate of 3.15% was never available with Leeds for that. Mr J would like to 
enjoy the lower rate of interest that he was mistakenly offered but that is unfair to Leeds. Mr 
J went to another lender and acquired a rate of interest including the additional borrowing 
that benefits Mr J more than if he had stayed with Leeds. So, I cant fairly say that he 
suffered a financial loss because of Leeds misinformation.
Leeds offered to put Mr J in the position he would have been in had he made the application 
at the beginning of September rather than later in the month. It offered a rate of 3.15% for 
the existing product transfer and 4.05% for the total borrowing if Mr J wanted the additional 
borrowing which were the rates available in early September. Mr J was able to get a better 
rate of interest elsewhere. My role is to come to a decision based on whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I agree that theres been an unfortunate error by the 
complaints adviser. But, as Leeds offered to put Mr J back in the position he would have 
been in had the error not been made and offered appropriate compensation for his distress 
and inconvenience, I believe that Leeds has acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr J.  I 
dont require Leeds to do anything further beyond payment of the compensation of £250.
My final decision
Leeds Building Society has already made an offer of £250 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that it should pay Mr J £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman