DRN-3494306
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc have reported adverse information to his credit file.
What happened
Mr S applied for a Bounce Back Loan (BBL) and an associated feeder account with HSBC 
for his sole trader business. The applications were successful and the BBL agreement was 
signed by Mr S on 6 November 2020 with the BBL funds being drawdown by him from the 
feeder account shortly afterwards. On 11 November 2020, the feeder account was closed by 
HSBC, as it was now empty and had fulfilled its purpose.
The first instalment payment on the BBL wasnt due until 6 December 2021  over a year 
after the BBL funds were drawdown in November 2020. When Mr S accepted the BBL in 
November 2020, he set up a direct debit to pay the instalments that would become due in 
December 2021. But shortly after the first instalment had been due, Mr S got a notification 
from HSBC advising that the payment hadnt been made. Mr S quickly contacted HSBC and 
manually made the missed payment, but he noticed that HSBC had recorded a late payment 
marker on his credit file as a result. Mr S wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
HSBC looked at Mr Ss complaint. They noted that Mr S initially set up direct debits to repay 
the instalments from the feeder account that had been opened solely to allow the drawdown 
of the BBL funds, and that because that feeder account had been closed it wasnt possible 
for the direct debits to be paid from that account and so the mandate had been cancelled. 
HSBC also explained theyd sent a letter to Mr S in July 2021 advising that there was no live 
direct debit mandate in place for the BBL instalments, and that further reminder letters had 
been sent to Mr S in September, October, and November 2021. Because of this, HSBC 
didnt feel theyd made an error or acted unfairly towards Mr S by reporting the late payment 
to the credit reference agencies as they had, and so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that HSBC had acted 
unfairly by reporting the late payment, and so they also didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mr S might be upset at having had a late payment marker reported to 
his credit file. However, it was Mr Ss responsibility to ensure the BBL instalment payments 
were received on time by HSBC. And given the circumstances of what happened here, I 
dont feel that HSBC should reasonably be held accountable for Mr S not being aware that 
the direct debit arrangement he believed was in place wasnt actually so. 
One reason I say this is because Mr S had set up the direct debit to be paid from the feeder 
account that had been opened alongside the BBL for the purpose of allowing he BBL funds 
to drawdown from it. And when the drawdown of the BBL funds was completed, which took 
place shortly after the BBL was approved in November 2020, the feeder account was closed.
I can appreciate that Mr S might not have understood the nature of the feeder account. But 
the closure of that account not only meant that the direct debit payments couldnt be taken 
from it, but also that any payments that Mr S may have attempted to make into the feeder 
account, for instance to deposit the funds to enable the direct debit payments he believed to 
be in place to be taken, also wouldnt have been successful  which I feel should have been 
evident to Mr S..
Additionally, Im satisfied that HSBC did provide fair notice to Mr S that there wasnt an 
active direct debit in place to pay the BBL instalments, and I note the letter that HSBC sent 
to Mr S in July 2021 which confirmed this point. 
Mr S has explained that he was overseas during the period that these letters were sent and 
so didnt personally receive them. But I dont feel that HSBC had any responsibility to have 
attempted to contact Mr S by any other means, such as by telephone or email, given that 
HSBC hadnt been given any indication that Mr S wouldnt receive mail at the address hed 
registered with them.
While I can appreciate how Mr S being overseas might have contributed to him not 
monitoring his accounts with HSBC so as to realise that his BBL instalment wouldnt be 
taken as he believed was the case, Im satisfied that it was ultimately Mr Ss responsibility to 
have monitored his accounts with HSBC and to have ensured that the BBL instalments 
would be repaid on time. And those responsibilities werent diminished in any way by Mr S 
being overseas. 
All of which means that I dont feel that HSBC have made any error or oversight in how they 
managed the situation here, including how they reported to the credit reference agencies 
that the BBL instalment in question had been repaid late. Like all credit providers, HSBC 
have an obligation to make accurate reports to the credit reference agencies. And given that 
Im satisfied that the report HSBC have made is accurate, and that Im also satisfied that 
HSBC shouldnt reasonably be considered as being responsible or accountable for Mr S not 
making the instalment payment on time, it follows that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing HSBC to take any further action.
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr S was wanting, but I trust hell understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman