DRN-3539024
The complaint
Mr C complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited has rejected his claim made under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to a solar panel system 
he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
What happened
Mr C bought solar panels for his home in 2018, after being visited by a representative from 
the installer, who Ill call E. Mr C decided to purchase the solar panels with a 10 year fixed 
sum loan from Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (OCRF).
In 2019 Mr C, via his representative, made a claim under section 75 of the CCA to OCRF. 
He said that E had told him the solar panels would be self-funded by virtue of the Feed In 
Tariff  (FIT) scheme, when in fact there was a shortfall between his savings and his monthly 
loan repayments, and he was not made aware of the full cost of the panels including interest. 
He considered this to be a misrepresentation, which had induced him to enter into the 
contract with E. The claim also raised some concerns over the sales process. When making 
the section 75 claim Mr C provided the sales contract, the quote for the system, the invoice, 
the MCS certificate, the finance agreement and evidence of his fit payments. 
OCRF responded and said that the credit agreement made the total cost of the system clear 
and the panels were performing within a 10% tolerance of the estimated performance on the 
SAP calculation.  It also asked for copies of Mr Cs energy bills. 
Mr C complained and OCRF investigated further, it concluded the sales documentation 
made it clear that the monthly benefits would be less than the loan repayments and Mr C 
had signed a validation form confirming he had had a full explanation of the system, 
understood how the loan and the repayments worked and had the opportunity to ask 
questions. And that there was no evidence to support Mr Cs assertions around the sale.  
As Mr C remained unhappy, one of our investigators looked into what had happened. He 
spoke to Mr C to get his recollection of the sale and what he understood from the 
documentation and came to the conclusion that the benefits of the solar panel system hadnt 
been misrepresented, as the paperwork made it clear that the FIT payments wouldnt cover 
the cost of the repayments.
Mr C, via his representative, didnt accept the investigators view.  The representative 
submitted a further document which detailed the benefits of the system and indicated that Mr 
Cs monthly contribution would be zero.  They also said that other cases had been upheld 
based on verbal testimony, and Mr C was adamant he was told the system would not cost 
him anything.  
The investigator shared the new information with OCRF and asked for its comments. OCRF 
said it had checked with E who said that it did not recognize the later document as one they 
had ever used.  OCRF said it had nothing further to add. The investigator reviewed all the 
evidence he had and did not change his opinion on the case. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I would consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 (s56) and s75 of the CCA. S75 provides 
protection for consumers for goods or service bought using credit. It states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against 
the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the 
debtor.
As Mr C paid for the solar panels with a fixed sum loan, OCRF agrees that s75 applies to the 
transaction. This means that Mr C could claim against OCRF  the creditor  for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by E in the same way he could have claimed against 
the E, the supplier. So, Ive taken s75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
S56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr C and E, as 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by E as an agent of OCRF.
Ive reviewed all the evidence submitted by all parties.  The initial letter of complaint stated 
that Mr C was told verbally that his solar panel system would effectively self-fund on his FIT 
income alone.  
Ive taken account of Mr Cs conversations with our investigator in which he recalled being 
told that all the figures on the paperwork were related to the savings he would make, and 
that he was aware of how much his repayments would be each month. While he did 
remember being told the panels would self-fund, he didnt recall any specific time period 
being mentioned or questioning the salesman about this.
 
The loan agreement, signed by Mr C sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be 
charged, total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Im satisfied that this is clear.  
Ive also looked at the System Performance Information Sheet, which includes this 
information I consider this document above makes it clear the amounts Mr C could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and savings and his overall yearly benefits. This document was part of Mr 
Cs original claim to OCRF, along with the signed quote/order form, so Im confident it 
formed part of the paperwork at the time of the sale.  Given that the FIT benefits are so 
clearly set out, I would have expected Mr C to have identified the significant difference 
between the estimated FIT income and his monthly loan payments.
  
Ive also considered the document supplied by Mr Cs representatives which they say was 
overlooked when they made their initial submissions.  This document stated the year 1 
benefits from the system would be £1,436 and the benefits over 25 years would be £35,920.  
It also goes on to say that for the self-financing option the monthly cost is £61.98 and that 
Mr Cs contribution is zero per week/month. If I consider this document in relation to the 
other documents, again I would have expected Mr C to have questioned the varying 
numbers. 
 
Ive taken account of OCRFs statement that E have said this is not a document from their 
sales process, and that when we asked Mr Cs representatives about this specifically, they 
said it was unrealistic to expect Mr C to remember the exact details of his meeting given how 
long time had passed. So, I havent been able to establish that this document was part of the 
paperwork given to Mr C at the time of sale or that he relied on it when reaching his decision 
to enter into the contract. 
 
Overall while Ive carefully considered Mr Cs testimony, given what Ive said above Im not 
persuaded that the benefits of the solar panel system were mis-represented to him in the 
way he says it was.  So, on balance I find it unlikely that there was a misrepresentation that 
would enable me to uphold his complaint.  
Ive gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under s140A of the Act. A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding 
is considered a classic source of unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a 
consumer. OCRF has confirmed that it paid no commission to E and, considering that I 
havent found any misrepresentation, I think a court is unlikely to conclude that there is an 
unfair relationship here under the Act.
Ive thought about Mr Cs concerns that he wasnt told about any cooling off period or 
cancellation rights. I think that these were clearly set out in the credit documentation with 
which he was provided. So, I havent found that Mr C wasnt told about his rights to withdraw 
from the contract. Mr C also raised some concerns about the sales process. He said a 
proper affordability check wasnt conducted. OCRF have said appropriate credit checks were 
carried out, and Ive seen no evidence or reasoning to support the allegations that they 
werent. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint against Omni Capital Retail 
Finance Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Sarah Holmes
Ombudsman