DRN-3884766
The complaint
Miss G and Mr R complain that Astrenska Insurance Limited is responsible for mishandling a 
claim on a guaranteed courtesy car insurance policy associated with a motor insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to Astrenska, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include the 
claims administrator and others insofar as I hold Astrenska responsible for their acts or 
omissions. 
What happened
In 2021, Mr R and Miss G had three teenage children and two dogs. They had a sports utility 
vehicle, first registered in about 2017. For the year from June 2021, Miss G insured it 
through a supermarket bank acting as an insurance intermediary. She was the policyholder 
and Mr R was covered as a named driver.
The policy was comprehensive. In the event of an accident, the policy would provide them 
with a courtesy car but only a 3- door hatchback and only while their vehicle was at an 
approved repairer. Another insurer (not Astrenska) was responsible for dealing with any 
claim. 
Miss G had an optional extra or additional product of guaranteed courtesy car insurance 
cover. Astrenska was the insurer responsible for dealing with any claim under that cover, 
through a claims administrator.
Unfortunately, in July 2021, the vehicle suffered damage in a collision with a deer. Miss G 
made a claim. On 28 July 2021, she and Mr R received a courtesy car. He contacted  the 
administrator to say that it wasnt large enough for some planned days out including a family 
birthday party on 4 August 2021.
On 7 October 2021, Mr R and Miss G complained that they hadnt received the courtesy car 
theyd paid for under the policy.
By a final response dated mid-November 2021, the claims administrator said the following:
The replacement hire vehicle policy provides customers with vehicles up to a certain 
size and does not provide a hire vehicle which is similar sized vehicle to their 
own
As we do not have sight of the replacement hire vehicle policy, we would normally 
refer the customer back to their insurance brokers
it would be the underwriters of the replacement vehicle policy who would need to 
agree to upgrade the hire vehicle grouping 
Mr R and Miss G brought their complaint to us without delay.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Astrenska shouldve provided a courtesy car of a similar size to Miss G and Mr Rs. The 
investigator said that there had been a serious impact which had caused considerable 
distress and upset. He recommended that Astrenska should pay £500.00 as redress for 
disruption caused.
Astrenska disagreed with the investigators opinion. It asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint. I says in summary, that:
It fulfilled its obligation to provide a replacement vehicle of a similar size and capacity 
to the policyholders.
As a result of Covid and subsequent supply issues, there has been a vehicle 
shortage. 
The suggested redress of £500,00 is beyond proportionate to the damage the 
policyholder incurred.
It offered £250.00.
Mr R accepted the investigators recommendation. He says, in summary, that:
There was a significant size difference in the comparison of the two vehicles 
The insurer was responsible for conflicting information about whether it had provided 
or couldnt provide a vehicle of the correct size.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules. We look at a consumers complaint against a regulated financial firm in 
connection with regulated activities. Where we uphold a complaint about an unfair act or 
omission, we look at its impact on the consumer. We assess compensation by reference to 
that impact  rather than at a level intended to punish or deter unfair acts or omissions.
Ive seen a policy schedule that shows that Miss G agreed to pay a total of about £500.00 for 
motor insurance and the additional product of guaranteed courtesy car insurance. And Ive 
also seen a document including the following:
Guaranteed Courtesy Car Insurance Product Information Document
Guaranteed Courtesy Car is insurance that provides hire car cover in the event of 
damage to your insured vehicle.
What is insured?
If your vehicle is damaged as a result of a road traffic accident, fire, or vandalism, or 
if it is stolen and not recovered, well arrange for a hire vehicle. The hire vehicle will 
be in place for a maximum of 14 days.
Are there any restrictions on cover?

Providing you with a hire vehicle which is the exact same make and model and same 
engine size of your vehicle
Providing you with a vehicle over 2000cc .
So the IPID didnt contain any promise to make sure the courtesy car was a similar size to 
the insured vehicle.
Mr R sent us a screenshot including the following:Enhanced courtesy car
Stay mobile while youre without your own car. If your car is off the road, including if 
its written off, well aim to deliver a courtesy car within 24 hours of you registering a 
claim and well make sure its a similar size to your own.
Ive added the underlining of the words on which Mr R and the investigator relied.
However, it would be unusual for a consumer to take such a screenshot at the time of taking 
out cover. And the screenshot shows a premium of over £2,000.00 rather than about 
£500.00. So I find that Mr R took the screenshot sometime after the accident.
Nevertheless the detailed policy terms about Guaranteed Courtesy Car made it clear that 
Astrenska would provide a Hire Vehicle defined as follows:
A Hire Vehicle provided subject to availability will be a similar size and capacity to 
Your vehicle up to a maximum engine size of 2000cc
Mr R and Miss Gs car had an engine over 2000cc, so Astrenska didnt have to provide a 
like-for-like courtesy car. But  subject to availability  it had to be a similar size and 
capacity.
I accept that Mr R ad Miss G had booked annual leave from work in the first week of August 
2021. They had planned some days out and a trip to a significant family birthday party.
The accident was, in my view, bound to cause some inconvenience. However, Mr R had to 
spend many hours on telephone calls about the courtesy car. And I find Astrenska 
responsible for the acts and omissions of the claims administrator, including conflicting 
information about what the policy covered and who Mr R should contact. 
Ive noted the dimensions and engine size of Miss G and Mr Rs vehicle and those of the 
courtesy car Astrenska provided. I find that the courtesy car wasnt of a similar size and 
capacity.
Ive weighed up the conflicting information about whether a suitable replacement vehicle was 
available. Keeping in mind the other conflicting information, I prefer Mr Rs recollection that a 
suitable replacement vehicle was available, but the claims administrator wouldnt authorise 
payment for it.
I hold Astrenska responsible not only for the claims administrators conflicting information but 
also for failure to provide a courtesy car of a similar size and capacity to Miss G and Mr Rs.
Ive thought about the impact of this on them. I accept that this included many hours of 
wasted time and frustration for Mr R. It also included an inability to travel as a family on all 
their planned days out in their week off. It also included having to leave their eldest child 
behind when they went to the birthday party. So the family photographs are missing that 
child.
The final response didnt include any financial offer.
Putting things right
I understand Mr Rs and Astrenskas reluctance to accept the investigators recommendation 
of £500.00, but I find it fair and reasonable in line with our published approach. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Astrenska Insurance Limited to pay Miss G and Mr R jointly £500.00 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 February 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman