DRN-2290538
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs G complain about the way National Westminster Bank Plc dealt with a transfer 
from their joint account.  
The details of this complaint are well-known to all the parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr G and Mrs G wanted to make a transfer from their joint account. But NatWest 
incorrectly told Mr G he didnt have the authority to do so despite the joint account 
having a one to sign authority. NatWest also inappropriately said he would need to 
go to a branch.
It is clear NatWest could have handled matters better. Its errors and the way the 
matter was dealt with delayed the transfer and caused Mrs G and, particularly, Mr G 
some distress and inconvenience.  
Our investigator recommended that NatWest should pay Mr G and Mrs G a total of 
£100 compensation for this and it has agreed to do so. But Mr G says this isnt 
enough as it doesnt reflect the seriousness of his complaint and the time taken to 
deal with matters. He has suggested his fifteen hours of time involved could be 
charged at £20 an hour.
All complainants spend some time and experience some inconvenience in dealing 
with a complaint and putting things right. We wouldnt generally recommend theyre 
compensated for this and Im not persuaded that I can reasonably depart from this 
approach in this case by awarding Mr G compensation for his time on the hourly 
basis he suggests. 
Even so I think Mr G and Mrs G have been caused some additional and unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience by the way NatWest has dealt with matters which 
warrants some compensation. 
Mr G also says £100 compensation is not a sufficient penalty for NatWests bad 
business practice. But we are not a regulator and cannot fine or punish it or require it 
to change its practices and procedures.
Taking everything into account, including the level of awards we make, I think the 
investigators suggested award of a total of £100 compensation is fair for the distress 
and inconvenience Mr G and Mrs G have experienced. And, although I recognise Mr 
Gs frustration and strength of feeling, I dont think on balance that I can reasonably 
ask NatWest to pay any more. 
Mr G has said he would like any compensation to be paid to charity. But that isnt 
something I can require NatWest to do. If he and Mrs G receive any compensation it 
will be open to them to pay it to charity if they want to.
For these reasons I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint about National Westminster Bank Plc, and I 
require it to pay Mr G and Mrs G a total of £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman