DRN-3295929
The complaint
Miss C complains because AWP P&C SA (AWP) hasnt paid a claim under her travel 
insurance policy for a trip that was cut short. 
All references to AWP include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Miss C held a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by AWP. The policy was 
purchased in October 2019, to cover a multi-country overland trip from November 2019 to 
October 2020. 
Unfortunately, while Miss C was abroad, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development 
Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all 
but essential international travel on 17 March 2020 due to the circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19. On 23 March 2020, the FCDO advised all British travellers who were abroad to 
return to the UK, and the UK government announced wide-ranging restrictions on 
movement, commonly referred to as lockdown. 
Following these announcements, Miss C cut her holiday short and booked a new return flight 
to the UK, departing on the evening of 23 March 2020. Miss C subsequently made a claim 
under her policy with AWP for both her unused and additional costs, but AWP said the terms 
and conditions of Miss Cs policy didnt provide cover for the circumstances shed found 
herself in. 
Unhappy, Miss C complained to AWP before bringing the matter to the attention of our 
service. One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said, although Miss Cs 
claim wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of her policy, she thought it would be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances for AWP to accept the claim regardless. 
AWP didnt respond to our investigators opinion, so Miss Cs complaint has been referred to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The investigator also
highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint.
The policy documentation 
Page 2 of the Insurance Production Information Document (IPID), which summarises the
cover available under Miss Cs policy with AWP, says:
Where am I covered?

You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Travel Advice 
Unit of the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health 
Organisation has advised against travel, unless agreed otherwise with the insurer.
The policy terms and conditions, at pages 13 and 14 under the heading General exclusions 
say:
The insurer shall not pay (unless agreed in writing by or on behalf of the insurer) for 
any claim directly or indirectly caused by, arising or resulting from, or in connection 
with: 
10. You travelling to a country, specific area or event to which the Travel Advice unit 
of the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health Organisation 
has advised against travel, unless agreed by or on behalf of the insurer.
The Schedule of cover set out on page 4 of Miss Cs policy terms and conditions says that 
AWP provides cover of up to £3,000 in the event of curtailment of a trip, subject to the 
individual sections of cover. 
Page 18 of the policy terms and conditions, under the heading Section D  Cancellation or 
curtailment sets out the cover available if a policyholder has to come home early from their 
trip. These say AWP will pay for certain non-refundable unused costs if a trip is curtailed for 
one of the following reasons:
1 The death, accidental bodily injury, illness, compulsory quarantine on the orders of 
a treating doctor, redundancy that qualifies for payment under current redundancy 
legislation, cancellation of leave for British Forces, police or government security 
staff, summoning to jury service or witness attendance in a court of you or your 
travelling companion.
2 The death, serious injury or illness of,
a a close relative, or
b the person with whom you intend to reside at the holiday or journey destination, or
c a dependent business partner;
of you or your travelling companion which necessitates the presence of the person 
concerned.
3 Hijack.
4 Adverse weather conditions making it impossible for you to travel to initial point of 
departure at commencement of outward journey.
5 Major damage or burglary at your home or place of business which at the request 
of an emergency service requires your presence.
Ive thought about the reason why Miss C cut short her trip. I dont think this was because 
Miss C was told by a treating doctor that she needed to quarantine. Instead, Miss C said the 
reason her trip was cut short was because of a combination of the FCDO advice to return 
home, lockdown and travel restrictions imposed by various governments as a result of the 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19. Im satisfied that these were the reasons which led to 
her claim. These arent reasons which are covered under the terms and conditions of the curtailment
section of Miss Cs policy, as they are not specific or listed insured events. Ive also reviewed 
the remaining sections of Miss Cs insurance policy, but I dont think she held any cover 
which would pay a benefit in the circumstances she found herself in. This means Miss Cs 
claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of her policy with AWP. 
Whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
However, I have an overriding remit to make a decision based on what I think is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. Ive taken into account the relevant law and 
industry guidelines and I dont think a strict interpretation of the policy terms and conditions 
leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case.
When Miss C cut short her trip, the FCDO had already advised against all non-essential 
international travel and the FCDO was also advising all British travellers who were abroad at 
the time to return to the UK.
The policy exclusion outlined on page 13 and 14 of the terms and conditions excludes cover 
under any section of the policy if a policyholder travels to a country against FCDO advice.  
Based on the information Ive seen, I think this exclusion means its most likely that Miss C 
wasnt covered by the policy terms and conditions for any onward travel to the next country 
on her overland trip after 17 March 2020 and/or 23 March 2020. 
But, under the terms and conditions of Miss Cs policy, curtailment of a trip due to changes in
FCDO guidance also isnt covered. This means Miss C was left in a situation where she had
no cover for her onward travel abroad after 17 March 2020/23 March 2020, but she also had 
no cover if she cut short her trip. I dont think this was made sufficiently clear to Miss C in her 
policy documentation.
Miss C would need to have read the full policy terms and conditions in order to understand
that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont think this information was brought
to her attention in a prominent and transparent way. So, I dont think the combined effect of
the policy terms were made sufficiently clear to her.
I think this created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Miss C and AWP. I
think its unlikely Miss C would have purchased this policy if she had realised there was no
cover if FCDO guidance changed after she bought the policy and/or commenced her trip.
And, Im satisfied that travel insurance policies which did cover curtailment claims arising
from changes to FCDO advice were available on the market at the time Miss C bought this
policy in October 2019. So, I think its likely Miss C would have been able to buy alternative
insurance which did cover the circumstances she ultimately found herself in.
I therefore think it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for AWP to accept Miss
Cs claim outside of a strict application of the policy terms and conditions.
Putting things right
I direct AWP P&C SA to treat Miss Cs claim as covered under the curtailment section of her 
policy. 
AWP P&C SA should therefore assess Miss Cs claim under the remaining terms and 
conditions of her policy, including any applicable policy excess and/or policy limit. My final decision
Im upholding Miss Cs complaint against AWP P&C SA and I direct it to put things right in 
the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman