DRN-3921846
The complaint
Mr B complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited mishandled a claim on his  
motor insurance policy.
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and complaint is a luxury car, first registered in 2002. Mr B 
acquired the car in about 2018.
For the year from June 2021, Mr B had the car insured on a comprehensive policy with 
Advantage.
Unfortunately, in late May 2022, a third party caused damage to the car. Mr B made a claim 
to Advantage. At first, Advantage thought the car might be a total loss. But by about 8 June 
2022, Advantage had decided the car was repairable. 
In mid-June 2022, Mr B complained to Advantage about lack of contact and delay in repairs. 
By a final response dated 23 June 2022, Advantage apologised and said it would send 
£75.00.
Mr B complained further about delays in repairs. By a further final response dated early July 
2022, Advantage apologised and said it was sending £50.00.
Mr B brought his complaint to us in late July 2022.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Advantages offer wasnt enough. He said that Mr B was forced to drive a car that was 
potentially unsafe for road use, and this would cause a large amount of trouble, upset and 
stress to him. The investigator said that Mr B then had to manage the claim through the third 
party due to Advantages poor level of service. 
The investigator recommended that Advantage should increase its offer to a total of £300.00.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
An employee of the third party drove a van into the car while it was parked. The third 
party broke the law by saying the owner of the policy in his private car had caused 
the accident.
The contract states he will get a replacement car.
Advantage would not provide him with any car.
The third party or their insurer provided a car for him to get around in. 
The third partys insurer took the damaged car away and paid him for it.
He is disabled so cannot just jump on a bus.
Advantage didn't even reply to his emails. 
He did all the work, such as contacting and sending photos to the third party.
He was ignored so many times that £300.00 pounds just doesn't cut it. £1,000.00 
looks more realistic.
Advantage also disagreed with the investigators opinion. It says, in summary, that:
If the car was unsafe to drive, then it wouldnt be reasonable for Mr B to continue to 
drive it. So it isnt fair to direct compensation for this.
£300.00 is not fair/reflective of the true impact caused.
The compensation totaling £125.00 is fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This final decision is about the acts and omissions of Advantage. I make no findings on any 
incorrect or unlawful statements by the third party, save that I dont hold Advantage 
responsible for the acts or omissions of the third party.
Part of this complaint concerns the actions of a car hire company. As Advantage has 
accepted that it appointed the car hire company to manage the claim, I consider that 
Advantage is accountable for the acts or omissions of the car hire company. In my decision, 
any acts or omissions of the car hire company are referred to as acts or omissions of 
Advantage, insofar as I hold Advantage responsible for them.
The policy schedule said that Mr B was unable to work due to disability. So Advantage knew 
he had a disability.
Advantages policy terms included the following: 
About the replacement car service
 You won't be eligible for a replacement car if your Car is stolen or considered to be 
a Total Loss/write-off
 The replacement car service is only available if you use your Insurer's Nominated 
Repairer
 The replacement car will be provided by your Insurer's Nominated Repairer
 The service is only available while your Car is being repaired
 The replacement car will usually be a group A vehicle
So Advantage was only obliged to provide a replacement car while the nominated repairer 
had the car for repair. And the replacement car would be a small hatchback.
The accident itself was, in my view, likely to cause upset and inconvenience to Mr B. That 
included making a claim and providing information.
However, I can see that Advantages service fell below a reasonable standard and this 
caused Mr B extra distress and inconvenience at an already difficult time for him.
From what Advantage said in its first final response, I consider that there had been 
inadequate communication and an unnecessary delay between about 8 and about 22 June 
2022.Ive noted that the first final response included the following:
[our agents] have deemed the vehicle to be unroadworthy so driving the vehicle 
would be down to your discretion. 
So  knowing that its agents had said the car was unroadworthy  Advantage had suggested 
that Mr B could drive the car at his discretion. I dont find that fair or reasonable.
And Advantage still hadnt arranged repairs by the date of the second final response in July 
2022. So I consider that Advantage was responsible for further delay in arranging repair.
From what Mr B has said, the third party provided a replacement vehicle for some time 
before settling with Mr B on the basis of a total loss.
Ive thought about the impact on Mr B of Advantages poor communication and the delays in 
repairs. I consider that the impact included leaving Mr B with a damaged car and the worry 
about whether he could safely drive it. I consider that the impact also included Mr B feeling 
so ignored that he had to deal with the third partys insurer. 
Putting things right
Overall, I agree with the investigator that its fair and reasonable to direct Advantage to pay 
Mr B  in addition to its payments of £75.00 and £50.00  a further £175.00 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr B  in addition to its payments of £75.00 
and £50.00  a further £175.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman