DRN-4344881
The complaint
Mr L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc led him to believe he would qualify for an account 
incentive by opening an Advance Bank Account, only to be told he wasnt eligible.
What happened
Mr L said when HSBC failed to honour its switching guarantee he complained and wants a 
refund of fees and interest owed to him. He said he had an 18-minute call with HSBC on 13 
November 2022 when its agent assured him he would be eligible for the account incentive.
HSBC said Mr L didnt receive the incentive as he had previously held an account, which he 
had requested HSBC close on 9 October 2021. HSBC said it was sorry to learn that Mr L 
didnt recall holding this account when he opened his Advance Bank Account 13 months 
later. It said the criteria for the switch was on its website before he opened the account, and 
it declined to pay him the £200 incentive, but offered £50 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr L couldnt confirm the number at HSBC hed called, but HSBC said wherever his call had 
connected it would always register against his customer number. HSBC said it had searched 
unsuccessfully for Mr Ls calls around the date, using his mobile and landline number. 
Mr L said HSBC claimed he called on 17 November 2022 whereas he had actually called on 
13 November at 12:40 hours, for 18 minutes 11 seconds. He was surprised that HSBC didnt 
request the screenshot to prove the call, despite offering to do so, and had declined to 
provide all the phone numbers which HSBC can be reached on which he could put into his 
phone to find if he had made calls to any of its numbers. Mr L referred his complaint to us.
HSBC provided a copy of Mr Ls bank statements for a previously held account which dates 
from July 2020 to October 2021, when the account was closed. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said it was clear that Mr L 
wasnt eligible for the incentive payment. She said HSBC couldnt trace his call despite 
making a further and wider search at our request. She requested any other evidence of the 
call Mr L may have.
Mr L disagreed with the investigator and requested an ombudsman review his complaint. He 
said HSBCs position on the incentive payment isnt as represented to him in the phone call 
he made to them. He didnt have any other information other than his screenshot of the call, 
but the call history is only stored for six months. Mr L said that had the investigator 
requested this within six months this would have been possible, but due to our inefficiency in 
not asking for relevant details sooner it was no longer available. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has complained and received compensation in relation to other complaints about 
HSBC. The present complaint only concerns the non-payment of the £200 incentive 
available from HSBC for the opening a new account.
 
HSBCs eligibility rules for its account incentive were clearly set out on its website and stated 
that applicants wont qualify if they have held an HSBC account on, or after 1 January 2019. 
HSBC has sent Mr L copies of his account statements that show he held an account with the 
bank up until he closed it in October 2021. And so Mr L wasnt eligible for payment of the 
account incentive. 
When completing the bank account switching process, it is the responsibility of the customer 
completing the switch to check the terms and conditions, so they understand the eligibility 
criteria. However, Mr L said that he was assured by HSBCs agent on a call on 13 November 
2022 that he would be eligible. I dont doubt that Mr L called HSBC on 13 November 2022 
but there is no recording of that call. Mr Ls online application for the account is dated 14 
November 2022. 
HSBC hasnt found any recording of a call with Mr L on or around 13 November 2022. I think 
it could have helped if HSBC had requested Mr L to send his screen shot of his call, though 
it said the call duration wouldnt help as its system cant distinguish between hold time and 
agent time. Equally, Mr L could have sent the screenshot to HSBC, or to us as part of his 
complaint as it generally helps to provide all supporting evidence of complaint points. 
HSBC have provided us with evidence of the search they carried out to locate the call after 
we provided them with the date and time of the call from Mr L. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC to decline to meet Mr Ls request to provide all of 
its phone numbers. As it has said, these are many and varied and change over time, and are 
generally available to customers on the internet. Im sorry Mr L no longer has the screenshot 
of the exact date and time of his call, particularly if that included the number he called. 
Open-source information about the phone Mr L registered when he applied for the HSBC 
account on 14 November 2022 states that call history can be saved to a computer or printed 
out. And sets out how a call history can be retrieved beyond the six months or a year that the 
call history is immediately available. If Mr L subsequently obtains the number at HSBC he 
called and provides this to HSBC I would expect HSBC to make a further check of its 
records. 
Given that Mr L was never eligible for the account incentive and the lack of evidence of 
advice from HSBC to the contrary, I cant uphold this complaint. I think HSBCs offer of £50 
to Mr L as a gesture of goodwill is fair and reasonable, and is still open to him. I realise he 
will be disappointed not to receive the full £200 of the account incentive, however a reading 
of the eligibility criteria online would have put the issue beyond doubt without the need for 
any phone calls. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman