DRN-3836250
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) sent messages about her account to 
an incorrect number.
What happened
Miss B says her partner received a number of messages about her current account. She 
says that she never supplied Santander this number and this caused her a great amount of 
distress. Miss B complained to Santander about this. Santander said that this number was 
added to her account during a call with its telephone banking service, but as it could not 
retrieve the call in question, it credited her account with £100 compensation. 
Miss B was unhappy with this response so referred her complaint to the financial 
ombudsman service. One of our adjudicators looked into this matter and they concluded that 
what Santander had already done was sufficient.
Miss B did not agree with this and therefore her complaint was referred to me to issue a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this instance Santander cannot confirm why Miss Bs partners number was added to Miss 
Bs account just that it was added during a telephone call. That said, this does not mean that 
it was necessarily an error on Santanders part that this number was added, it could be that 
Miss B added this number to her account in circumstances she no longer recalls.
That said though, taking everything into consideration, even if I were satisfied that Santander 
did add her partners number to Miss Bs account without her consent, I am satisfied that the 
compensation already paid is fair and reasonable and in line with what I wouldve 
recommended had it not already done so.
To explain, it is not our role to punish or fine a business and I need to consider that once this 
matter was brought to Santanders attention, I can see that it rectified the error swiftly. In 
addition to this, Miss B has not suffered a financial loss as a result of what happened.
I accept that it may have been upsetting to have information about her account being sent to 
a someone else, but overall, I think that £100 is in line with what I wouldve recommended 
had Santander not already made such an offer.
I know Miss B may be upset by my decision, but as I said above, it isnt our role to punish a 
business. And Im satisfied that the £100 that Santander has already credited Miss B is fair 
and reasonable.
My final decision
I dont require Santander UK Plc to do anything more than it has already done.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman