DRN-3750802
The complaint
E complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money it lost when it was the victim of 
a scam.
What happened
E is a limited company and, in December 2021, it was paying an invoice for a contractor it 
had used. E had received the invoice from the contractor, sent it to its accountant to check 
the details and then instructed HSBC to make a payment of £25,000 to the payment details it 
received back from its accountant. Unfortunately, we now know scammers had intercepted 
the email from the accountant and given E incorrect payment details. So the payment was 
sent to the scammers and not the contractor.
The scam was uncovered as the contractor said it hadnt received the payment. HSBC 
initially tried to recall the payment, but was unable to. It then investigated the scam and said 
it was satisfied it had sufficient fraud prevention measures in place at the time, but that E 
could have caried out more checks before making the payment. So it didnt agree to refund 
the money E had lost. It was able to recover £2 from the bank the payment was sent to 
though. E wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They didnt think HSBC had established 
that it had shown an effective warning before E made the payment, or that E had made the 
payment without a reasonable basis for belief that it was genuine. So they recommended 
HSBC should refund the money E had lost. HSBC didnt agree, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code). This code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim 
of authorised push payment scams, like the one E fell victim to, in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. And it is for the firm to establish that one of those exceptions to 
reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did E ignore an effective warning?
The CRM code says that an effective warning should enable a customer to understand what 
actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not doing so. And it 
says that, as a minimum, an effective warning should be understandable, clear, impactful, 
timely and specific.
HSBC has sent us a copy of the warning it says E was shown before making the payment, 
and it says:
Check the invoice is authentic. Fraudsters can pose as a genuine business or a 
professional contact. If you receive an unexpected bill or updated invoice with new account 
details, it could be a scam. You must contact the payee to verify the payment details using a 
phone number from a trusted source eg their website. If you continue without checking, you 
accept the money may go to a fraudulent account and we may not be able to get it back.
While this warning does mention the possibility of fraudsters impersonating a professional 
contact, as they did here by intercepting Es accountants emails, I dont think it goes into 
enough detail about what the scam could look or feel like or is specific enough to be effective 
in Es circumstances. And I dont think its clear enough about the severity of the possible 
risks to be impactful in these circumstances either. So I dont think the warning HSBC 
showed was effective.
As I dont think the warning was effective, I therefore also dont think HSBC has established 
that E ignored an effective warning when making this payment.
Did E have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment?
HSBC has said that E could have carried out more checks before making the payment and 
that, if it had done the checks suggested in the warning it was shown, the scam could have 
been prevented.
But E had sent the invoice to its accountant to be checked, and had received confirmation 
back from its accountant that it was ok to pay the invoice. So I think its reasonable that E 
thought it had checked the invoice was genuine and had done the checks suggested in the 
warning.
Ive also seen copies of the email the scammers sent to E, pretending to be from his 
accountant. And I think this looks genuine and professional, and looks similar to other 
genuine emails E received from its accountant  which E has sent us copies of. The fake 
invoice the scammers had attached to the email also looks professional. So I think it was 
reasonable that E thought it was genuine.E has also said it knew the contractor had recently changed legal status, so it wasnt 
concerned when the payment details it entered didnt match those on the account the money 
was going to. And I think this also seems reasonable.
I appreciate there were further checks E could have done, that could have uncovered the 
scam. But E reasonably thought it had already carried out checks to address this risk. The 
information E received from the scammers all looked professional, so I dont think it was 
unreasonable for it to think it was genuine. And I dont think there was anything else about 
the circumstances which ought to have caused it significant concern. So I dont think it was 
unreasonable for E not to do further checks.
And so I dont think HSBC has established that E made the payment without a reasonable 
basis for belief that it was genuine.
I therefore dont think HSBC has established that any of the exclusions to reimbursement 
under the CRM code apply here. And so, under the terms of the CRM code, I think HSBC 
should refund the full £25,000 E lost as a result of this scam  less the £2 that has already 
been recovered.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Refund E the remaining £24,998 it lost as a result of this scam
Pay 8% simple interest on this refund, from the date it initially rejected the claim until 
the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman