DRN-3331457
The complaint
Mr S complains about Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) for giving him misleading 
information about what was owed immediately on his credit card debt. He wants Nationwide 
to be held accountable and to pay him compensation or waive his debt.
What happened
Mr S held a Nationwide credit card with a balance of around £14100.
In early 2021, Mr S encountered difficulties making payments towards his debt.
He contacted Nationwide and agreed to a zero-payment plan. This froze the balance and 
stopped interest and charges being added to his balance. 
Over the following months, Mr S contacted Nationwide on numerous occasions to check 
what he owed immediately. He was given inconsistent information on those calls, with some 
telling him he did not need to make any immediate payment, and that he could wait until the 
end of his plan to make payments, and others telling him that arrears were accruing on the 
debt. 
In later calls, Mr S was advised that arrears had built on his credit card and were then more 
than £2000. 
Mr S was upset by this and asked Nationwide to provide recordings and a log of his calls. He 
also complained that he had been given contradictory information and that this had caused 
him worry and stress.
Nationwide responded to his complaint. It acknowledged that he had been given inconsistent 
information regarding arrears during some calls but explained that arrears in the context of 
a credit card were a record of missed contractual minimum payments. This was recorded in 
order to ensure his credit file was accurate, and so that any default was based upon 
accurate information. 
Nationwide apologised that call logs and recordings had not been sent to Mr S and informed 
Mr S to make a data subject information request. 
Nationwide offered Mr S £100 to reflect his distress and inconvenience, which was deducted 
from his account balance. 
Mr S was not happy and contacted us. At that time, Mrs Ss debt remained the same, at 
around £14100. 
In the meantime, Mr Ss debt has been sold to a third party. 
One of our investigators looked into this matter and did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Nationwide had difficulties in sending us call recordings, so our investigation proceeded on 
the basis of what Mr S had told us. 
Our investigator acknowledged that Nationwide had given inconsistent or unclear information 
but noted that this had not had a financial effect on Mr S as no charges had been applied to 
his account and the balance stayed the same throughout. She thought that Nationwides 
offer of compensation was reasonable to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr S did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ss strength of feeling about this matter. He is clearly worried about what 
debt he owes and has owed and is frustrated at the unclear information he has received 
from Nationwide. 
He wants Nationwide to be held to account, as he feels that he has been punished by having 
the debt continue. 
I do, however, agree with the investigators view and I do not uphold his complaint. 
I appreciate that we have not received audible versions of some of the calls, and so I have 
accepted Mr Ss account of what took place during those calls. I accept that he was told 
confusing information about his debt and about what was owed at any time throughout his 
payment plan.
I understand this would have been frustrating, but I cannot see that it affected the material 
position which was that Mr S had an outstanding debt of around £14100, and that he was 
not specifically required to make payments over the plan period, and the debt would not 
increase. It equally would not decrease without payments being made to it, however, and I 
cannot see that payments were made during the period of the plan. 
Arrears on a credit card are not quite the same as with products like a loan or mortgage 
where a definite amount becomes due each month and must be paid. With a credit card the 
entire balance is always due to be repaid but there is a minimum amount that the consumer 
agrees to pay each month, and this varies at the balance changes. When Nationwide talked 
about arrears, it meant the contractual payments which were being missed during the zero-
payment plan. These showed the amount of repayments that had been missed (by 
agreement) over the plan duration. It was reasonable for Nationwide to capture and report 
this information as it appears accurate and demonstrates how the account was managed.
I agree however that Nationwide should have been more clear about this, and that the failure 
caused Mr S some distress and inconvenience. I think that the offer made is appropriate for 
the additional worry caused by the poor communication as I think that the vast majority of Mr 
Ss worry is based upon the large amount of debt outstanding. I have not seen any problem 
with the way this amount was reached, and it was not increased by the payment plan or 
because of Nationwides poor communication. 
Therefore, although I know this will be disappointing to Mr S, I think that Nationwide has 
acted reasonably in offering compensation to reflect its failures and I do not ask Nationwide 
to do anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint and do not ask Nationwide Building Society to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman