DRN-3470701
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained that they arranged repairs to their roof based on the 
recommendations made by a surveyor appointed by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
following a declined claim for storm damage under their home insurance policy. They say the 
repairs didnt fix the leak.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B made a claim for storm damage to their home to their insurer, RSA. RSA 
declined the claim as it said storm conditions didnt occur. A surveyor instructed to inspect 
their roof identified existing defects which he recommended needed repair. 
Mr and Mrs B have complained about RSAs decision to decline their claim and this service 
had dealt with that complaint separately. 
Mr and Mrs B said they arranged for a roofer to carry out repairs based on the surveyors 
findings. However, there was still a leak and so further works were needed. Mr and Mrs B 
want RSA to reimburse them for the costs of the initial works as they said they were 
ineffective. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend their complaint should be upheld. She explained that the 
surveyor provided an opinion on the repairs but that his instruction was to confirm if there 
was a valid insured peril for RSA to cover under the policy. As the claim was declined, it was 
the responsibility of Mr and Mrs B to arrange for suitable repairs to be carried out privately. If 
the repairs werent successful, this was an issue for Mr and Mrs B to take up with their 
roofer. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree. They say the opinion of the surveyor was adequate to decline the 
claim and so it was reasonable for them to have relied on it when instructing a contractor to 
repair their roof. So they want an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B explained that following the first set of repairs which didnt fix the leak, the 
contractor returned and they asked him to completely remove the roof and refit and replace 
all existing roof batons. Mr and Mrs B say this made the roof watertight and no leaks 
continued. 
When RSA instructed a surveyor to inspect their roof, it was to check if there was an insured 
peril which RSA would cover under the policy. Although it doesnt form part of my decision, I 
need to refer to RSAs rejection of Mr and Mrs Bs claim for background to this complaint. 
The surveyor reported that there were several broken tiles and the ridge tiles had come 
loose and been displaced. So he identified existing defects with the roof. 
RSA didnt find that storm conditions had occurred to have caused the damage either. RSAs 
policy  like all insurance policies Ive seen  has exclusions for damage not caused by an 
insured peril. It excludes damage caused by existing defects as these are seen as 
maintenance issues which any home owner should deal with in the day to day upkeep of 
their property. And once RSA declined the claim, it had no responsibility or liability for any 
repairs Mr and Mrs B arranged with a roofer.
If RSA had accepted the claim, a detailed scope of works  and provision for any further 
underlying issues  would have been accounted for. This is because RSA would be 
responsible for carrying out effective and long lasting repairs. As Ive said, Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint about RSAs decision to reject their claim isnt something I can make a finding on 
here as it is a separate complaint. But as RSA rejected Mr and Mrs Bs claim, I dont think its 
responsible for the instructions Mr and Mrs B gave to its own contractor. And so it follows 
that I dont think RSA is responsible for reimbursing Mr and Mrs B for the first repair costs. 
I understand Mr and Mrs B will be very disappointed with my decision. But based on what 
Ive seen, Im not asking RSA to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman