DRN-2051041
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
trading as NFU Mutual (NFU) acted unfairly and unreasonably in how its dealt with their 
claim under a legal expenses insurance policy. They want their legal fees paid.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D had a legal expenses insurance policy with NFU through their household 
insurance. They made a claim under the policy to cover a discrimination claim brought by 
Mr D in an employment tribunal. Mr and Mrs D were unhappy that NFU wouldnt allow the 
use of their chosen law firm due to a conflict of interest as Mrs D was a partner at that law 
firm (but not in the employment team). NFU also refused to pay towards their legal fees as 
Mr D insisted on using his first choice of law firm. Mr and Mrs D pointed out that the policy 
said there was cover for up to £50,000.
Mr and Mrs D complained to NFU. It said it viewed Mrs Ds position at the law firm Mr D 
wanted to use, even though Mrs D wasnt acting in the claim, as a conflict of interest  it said 
she might affect the claim or influence matters somehow. NFU said it was an implied term in 
the insurance contract, and Mr D could use either a panel firm or another law firm of his 
choice. It refused to discuss the matter with the law firm to establish if steps could be put in 
place to avoid any issues.
Mr and Mrs D complained to us. The investigators view was that NFU was at fault. He said 
that Mr D had been upfront from the start of his claim about the position of Mrs D, and NFU 
hadnt been able to explain where the conflict of interest was in this case. The law firm was 
acting for Mr D only and it was normal for law firms to act where employees had referred 
family members to the firm. The investigator pointed out that it was for the solicitor to decide 
if there was a conflict of interest which should prevent them from acting for a client, not the 
insurer. The law firm was clear that there was no conflict of interest and offered to discuss it 
with NFU. 
The investigator said that NFU was wrong to have refused to allow Mr D to use the law firm 
and to refuse to engage in a discussion about the matter. He said NFU should refund the 
solicitors fees paid by Mr D, but it could assess the costs claimed to ensure that they were 
reasonable and necessary, and exclude costs relating to the grievance procedure as they 
were excluded by the policy. The investigator added £200 should be paid for the trouble and 
upset suffered by Mr D.
NFU disagreed. It said Mr D was told when he first contacted it that there was a conflict of 
interest and he couldnt use the law firm of his choice; it said it was his decision to proceed. 
NFU said it was reasonable to rely on the view of a panel firm who said that there was a 
conflict of interest. It said in any event any law firm covered by the policy had to agree to 
accept its standard terms of appointment, and no terms had been agreed in Mr Ds case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I refer to NFU, Im also referring to its agents. The relevant rules and industry 
guidelines say that NFU has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it 
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Having considered the terms and conditions of the policy, there is no express term 
preventing Mr D from using his choice of law firm. NFU argues that theres an implied term 
that a law firm cant be appointed if theres a conflict of interest. But terms are only implied if 
theres a necessity to do so to give full effect to the legal agreement between the parties, 
and theres no need in my view for such a term  this is because solicitors are under a 
professional duty not to act if theres a conflict of interest. 
The law firm in this case set out in detail why there was no conflict of interest and was willing 
to discuss the matter with NFU. Its clear from the information provided that Mrs D wasnt a 
solicitor in employment law. And whilst NFU argues that it relied on legal advice from a panel 
solicitor, no substantial explanation is given why theres a conflict of interest. Insurers are 
only able to rely on legal advice if its reasoned, and theres an absence of reasoning to 
explain the nature of the conflict in these circumstances and why the law firm in question 
was incorrect in its assessment of its professional position. Whilst I cant substitute my view 
for that of NFUs, I cant see any conflict of interest  Mrs D wasnt involved in the case, she 
couldnt advise as it was outside her specialism, and it isnt unusual for families to use law 
firms for whom relatives are employed. I dont think it was fair or reasonable for NFU to insist 
that there was a conflict of interest or to refuse to engage with the law firm on the topic.
To decide the fair and reasonable outcome, I bear in mind that before 21 May 2019, no 
request for NFU to cover the legal costs had been made, so it hadnt agreed to pay the fees. 
The policy also excludes costs relating to a grievance. These costs wouldnt be covered by 
the policy in any event, so its fair and reasonable for NFU not to pay them.
Its also fair and reasonable for NFU to only pay the reasonable and necessary costs as this 
is what the policy says will be covered. The policy does cover employment disputes and 
once the decision is made to go to the employment tribunal, Mr D had the right to choose his 
own law firm to prepare the statement of case and conduct the claim. 
But I would add two comments  first, the policy does say the standard terms of appointment 
must be accepted by the law firm. NFU says as this didnt happen, no costs are recoverable. 
But the law firm was never given the chance to agree the standard terms due to NFUs 
refusal to accept their appointment. I dont think its fair or reasonable for me to say the costs 
arent recoverable because of NFUs refusal to offer its standard terms. I am though 
conscious that from the evidence available to me, the claim was complex, and it mayve 
been a situation where it wouldve been unfair and unreasonable for NFU to require its 
standard hourly rate was applied, as this mightve led to Mr D being unable to choose a 
solicitor, other than a panel solicitor. I think the fair and reasonable solution is for the claim to 
be accepted and NFU can review the costs claimed considering the terms and conditions of 
the policy (and consideration of what is fair and reasonable considering the complexity of the 
claim). If Mr D is unhappy with NFUs decision about what to repay, he would be able to 
raise a new complaint.
The second comment I would add is that it seems an invoice of £24,000 was paid by the 
other side following a settlement of the claim. Again, the policy sets out expectations about 
insurers approving settlements and it is not uncommon for the insurer to expect the recovery 
of costs from the other side. I do not know the terms of the settlement reached, but it is likely 
to be relevant.Putting things right
NFU should accept the claim and carry out an assessment of the costs claimed by Mr D in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy and what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances given the potential complexity of the discrimination claim and the settlement. 
It should also pay £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr D  I note that 
he hasnt disputed this sum, but he spent time and effort trying to find out why NFU said that 
there was a conflict of interest and to resolve the matter. £200 is fair and reasonable 
compensation in all the circumstances, especially as Mr D retained his choice of solicitor.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and The National Farmers Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited trading as NFU Mutual should accept and consider Mr Ds claim 
as outlined above, and refund the costs due for repayment subject to the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy. It should also pay £200 for the trouble and upset caused to 
Mr D by its failings. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr D and Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman