DRN-3033784
The complaint
Miss M, as an authorised person on her sons account, complains about the customer 
service Barclays provided after she was the victim of a fraud. 
What happened
The background to this case is known to both parties, so I will only summarise events here.
On 5 June 2019, Miss M was contacted by a fraudster, pretending to be from Barclays, who 
told Miss M that the money in her accounts was at risk. The fraudster said that there had 
been suspicious activity on her account that needed to be verified. Miss M asked the caller 
to reassure her that they were genuinely from Barclays. The fraudster was able to provide 
Miss M with her bank account details and suggested that she compare the telephone 
number that was calling her, with the number on the back of her bank card. The numbers 
matched and the fraudster was also able to send Miss M a text message, requesting that 
Miss M read out the unique numbers within the text message.
Believing the caller to be genuine, Miss M confirmed with the caller that the transactions 
were not hers. The fraudster explained to Miss M that she would need to act quickly to 
protect her money and that she needed to log onto her online banking. The fraudster told 
Miss M that an attempted transaction was being made on her sons account as they were 
talking, so Miss M needed to transfer money to a safe-account straight away. At this point, 
Miss M became suspicious and told the caller she would call them back. Believing that she 
was being duped, Miss M ended the call and contacted Barclays straight away, where she 
asked for her accounts to be frozen.
On reporting the fraud to Barclays, Miss M became aware that, unknown to her at the time, 
the fraudster had managed to transfer £7,000 from her sons account, to a beneficiary that 
was known to Miss M (it is suspected that the fraudster intended to continue the scam 
following the transfer, by then contacting the beneficiary and explaining there had been an 
overpayment  which is often referred to as an advanced fee scam).
Having not heard anything, Miss M contacted Barclays a few days later asking for an update.  
She was told she would be contacted by a case handler and she received a call a couple of 
days later. Miss M has said she didnt receive a response. But the payment that had been 
lost, from her sons account, was mentioned in a letter Barclays sent to Miss M through her 
company on 25 June 2019. In this letter Barclays confirmed that, as they accepted Miss M 
had been the victim of a fraud, the credit for £7,000 which Barclays had paid into her sons 
account, would remain there. Miss M has said she didnt receive this letter.
Miss M has said she called Barclays numerous times and logged a number of complaints 
and at one point was told there was no complaint logged on Barclays system. This meant 
Miss M had to set up another complaint, which was logged on Barclays systems on 16 July 
2019. Miss M received a call from Barclays in respect of this complaint and has said she was 
unhappy with the service provided within the call, she has said she wasnt offered an 
apology and she found the £50 that was offered to her, as a gesture of goodwill was 
insulting.
Miss M then bought her complaint to our service. In summary, she doesnt think Barclays 
has gone far enough in putting things right and she has explained the fraud had a profound 
impact on her, with her health being impacted by Barclays actions. Miss M seeks 
compensation of between £7,000 - £10,000.
One of our investigators looked into things. In summary, she didnt think Barclays could have 
done anything to prevent the scam and it did what she would have expected it to, in 
refunding Miss Ms sons account with the money that was lost. But our investigator did think 
the service Barclays provided could have been better. She said this because she saw Miss 
M had to chase for updates and there was some confusion with whether a complaint had 
been set up. Our investigator recommended that Barclays should pay £200 compensation, 
on top of the £50 it had already paid, for the service Miss M experienced.
Barclays agreed with our investigators recommendations. Miss M didnt agree with our 
investigators opinion, in summary she didnt think this even begun to cover the nightmare 
her and her family had been through, nor the stress and inconvenience caused through an 
obvious fraud on behalf of Barclays.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
In this case Barclays has already refunded Miss Ms sons account with the money that was 
lost, so the only issue I have to decide is whether the level of compensation its offered Miss 
M is fair and reasonable. There isnt a set formula to decide the level of compensation which 
would be appropriate. And we cant punish banks as were not the regulator. When deciding 
whether or not to award compensation, and if so, how much, I think about the impact a 
business actions or omissions have had on the individual(s) involved.
In reaching my decision Ive considered what Miss M has told us about how the fraud has 
impacted her, and I dont underestimate this. I have to balance this, with the understanding 
that the primary reason, for Miss Ms son losing this money, was the cruel and sophisticated 
scam that was carried out by the fraudsters. I do appreciate that its difficult to put a price on 
the emotional and well-being impact a scam can have, as it is subjective and there is no 
exact science.
Ive considered the actions Barclays took when it was made aware of the scam.  And I can 
see that it credited Miss Ms son with the full amount of the money that was lost, when the 
fraud was raised with it. I cant fairly or reasonably say that Barclays has unduly delayed this 
refund and, from what Ive seen, it acted promptly in refunding the money.
I also dont think Barclays could have done anything to prevent the scam.  From what I 
know, it appears that this was a highly sophisticated scam where fraudsters where able to use social engineering techniques to glean enough information to enable them to access 
Miss Ms mobile banking and make a payment without her knowledge.  I understand Miss M 
has suggested that the fraud was in some way on Barclays behalf.  But I have seen no 
evidence of this, and in any event, it is not for this service to determine such matters or 
investigate who has committed a fraud, that is a role for the law enforcement agencies.
I can see that Miss M had to chase up a response to her complaint, and there has been 
some confusion with Miss M needing to set up a further complaint, having thought that this 
had already been set up. Barclays offered £50 as a gesture of goodwill in recognition of this 
and our investigator recommended that it should pay a further £200 on top of this.
I dont underestimate Miss Ms strength of feeling, and I dont doubt this has been a very 
difficult and worrying time for her. And I can understand how needing to chase Barclays and 
then being told there wasnt a complaint set up would have added to what was no doubt an 
already difficult time. But all things considered and taking into account that Ive found that 
Barclays couldnt have prevented the fraud and that it acted quickly in refunding the money 
that had been lost, when the fraud was bought to its attention. Im persuaded an additional 
payment of £200 is a fair amount thats proportionate to the circumstances in this complaint.
Miss M has previously mentioned how disappointing this is and that perhaps she should take 
matters through the courts. Miss M doesnt have to accept my final decision, and if she 
doesnt it wont be binding on her. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court 
might impose, Miss Ms right to pursue a legal remedy wont have been prejudiced by our 
consideration of this complaint. 
 
Putting things right
 For the reasons set out by the investigator and above, Ive decided that Barclays ought to;
- pay Miss M £200 compensation (on top of what has already been paid) in recognition 
of the distress and inconvenience caused.  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman