DRN-3674677
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-handled an international money 
transfer.
What happened
Mrs B had been trying to make an international money transfer using the banking app on her 
phone but it wouldnt work. So she then went into a branch on 14 July 2021 to transfer £500 
to an Italian account. The funds never left her account and it later transpired that the 
payment couldnt go through as it was sent in English pounds and the recipient bank only 
accepted Euro transfers.
Barclays carried out the transfer again on 15 July 2021, this time in Euros (equalling 
£500.26), with a promise that it would arrive in the recipient account the same day. But 
Barclays had used the wrong type of payment method and the transfer was sent by a 
process that typically took three days.
Mrs Bs partner urgently needed the money but it wouldnt be possible for the funds, now 
recalled, to be returned in time. So, on 16 July 2021, Barclays credited Mrs Bs account with 
£500.26 from its own reserve funds so that she could withdraw it and make a payment to her 
partner via Moneygram. 
Barclays accepted that it had made errors and paid Mrs B £50 compensation for her distress 
and inconvenience.
Our investigator thought that Barclays had acted reasonably in accepting the mistakes that 
had occurred and upholding the complaint. But he thought that a total of £150 compensation 
would be more appropriate for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs B, to which 
Barclays agreed.
Mrs B doesnt agree with the investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Just after these events, Mrs Bs current account was blocked whilst Barclays carried out an 
internal review. Although it coincidentally happened around the same time, it was unrelated 
to the international money transfer issue. Barclays has dealt with the blocking of the account 
under a separate complaint.
To be clear, this decision is only looking at the way Barclays dealt with the international 
money transfer.
Mrs B has more recently said the timeline is wrong and she first went into a branch on 13 
July 2021. But in her original complaint to us she did say that she visited the branch on 14 
July 2021. The available evidence shows that her first visit was on 14 July 2021. For 
example, Barclays has a call note from 14 July 2021 in which Mrs B discusses not being 
able to use the app and she was advised to visit the branch. And the actual transaction data 
shows the first transfer being completed at 1.19pm on 14 July 2021.
Barclays didnt have any advance knowledge that the recipient bank wouldnt just convert 
the sterling payment to euros upon receipt, as many other banks did. So it wouldnt be fair to 
hold Barclays responsible for the first transfer not going through.
Barclays accepts that it incorrectly set up the second transfer using a slower payment 
method. But, on being told that the funds hadnt been received the same day, it took steps to 
sort the situation out quickly so that Mrs B could use an alternative means of getting the 
money to her partner.
Mrs B has talked about the behaviour of the advisers and asked that I listen to the calls from 
the period, particularly one on the afternoon of 16 July 2022 in which she was very upset in 
the car and says that she later collapsed. She has also said that she was lied to because 
she was told that the payments were being made.
I can confirm that I have listened to all related calls between 14-17 July 2022. My view is that 
all staff that Mrs B spoke to behaved professionally at all times and were never rude. Whilst 
Mrs B was clearly frustrated and stressed at times, most of the phone calls end with her 
thanking the adviser for their help. Based on the available evidence, I am not persuaded that 
Barclays deliberately misled her. At the times she was advised that the payments were going 
through, staff had no reason to belief that the transactions wouldnt be successful.
The 16 July 2022 phone call that Mrs B has highlighted takes place after the money transfer 
issue has been sorted out. But its at a time when Mrs B has just found out that her current 
account has been blocked. She is distressed about not having access to her account and 
this is the subject of the discussion. As I mentioned above, this is not something that I am 
looking at under this complaint reference. 
Mrs B has also mentioned how she was spoken to in branch and how she was made to 
discuss personal and financial details in a public area. But this also relates to Mrs Bs other 
complaint about her account being blocked. Because in the phone calls Ive listened to, she 
has nothing but positive things to say about her interactions with branch staff in relation to 
the money transfer issue (even though mistakes ended up being made).
I have no doubt that difficulties with making the money transfer were very stressful for Mrs B 
at a time when she just wanted to get her partner home. Ive thought very carefully about 
what she has said. But, on balance, Im satisfied that £150 is reasonable and proportionate 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs B.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mrs Bs complaint and require 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay a total of £150 compensation. I understand it has already paid 
£50, so it should now pay the additional £100 if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman