DRN-2979300
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service he received from John Lewis Financial Services Limited 
(JLFSL) when he asked it to refund a payment hed made with a credit card for a flight that 
was cancelled due to the pandemic.
What happened
Mr H purchased airline tickets in December 2019 at a cost of just over £1,100 and he used 
his JLFSL credit card to pay for the tickets. Mr Hs return flights were scheduled for 
May 2020.
In March 2020, the government advised against all unnecessary foreign travel and the 
country then went in to a full national lockdown. Mr H say the airline cancelled his flights on 
5 May and he then spent two months trying to contact it to get his payment refunded. He 
wasnt successful, so he contacted JLFSL to ask it to help him get his money back. Mr H told 
us:
he contacted JLFSL on 3 July and was sent a dispute form to complete along with 
evidence of the flight cancellation and the payment hed made;
over the next three months, he chased JLFSL for an update on his claim on a 
number of occasions, but his claim was in a queue waiting to be worked;
at the end of September, JLFSL contacted him and asked for a copy of the airlines 
terms and conditions together with evidence that hed already tried to resolve his 
dispute with it;
JLFSL asked him for the same information on two further occasions over the next six 
weeks, but at the same time, it made it difficult for him to provide it  he wasnt able 
to upload a large file, and JLFSL wouldnt accept a hyperlink to the terms and 
conditions on the airlines website;
on 3 December JLFSL wrote to him and said it couldnt assist with his claim because 
hed not provided the information it had asked for;
he obtained a smaller file of the terms and conditions in December and he sent this 
to JLFSL and then had to chase it throughout January 2021 to obtain updates on his 
claim;
at the end of January, JLFSL confirmed it had raised a chargeback and applied a 
temporary credit for the disputed amount to his account;
JLFSL subsequently confirmed that the merchant hadnt challenged its chargeback 
and the credit in Mr Hs account would be permanent, and it offered him £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience hed experienced;
hes unhappy with the service JLFSL provided; he says his claim took too long and 
there was no communication from it about the delay. He says he was asked for the 
same information several times and the delays have caused him stress, worry and 
anxiety. And, because of this, he doesnt think the £100 compensation offered by 
JLFSL is sufficient.
JLFSL upheld Mr Hs original complaint, it apologised for the service it had provided, and it 
offered Mr H £100 compensation in recognition of this - but it says Mr H hasnt accepted its 
offer.
It explained that due to the impact of the pandemic, its usual response times for disputes 
had been significantly impacted, and claims were taking around five months to conclude 
once it had received all the information it needed to start its claims process.
JLFSL says its disputes team made multiple requests for information of Mr H, most of which 
were responded to. But it says he didnt provide it with the terms and conditions for the 
airline tickets hed purchased, and because of this, it wasnt able to progress his claim in the 
way it wouldve liked. JLFSL says the chargeback claim was ultimately successful and the 
amount was credited to Mr Hs account.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she thought JLFSL couldve 
communicated better with Mr H and told him at the outset what information hed need to 
provide. And she said JLFSL couldve provided him with more support and assistance when 
he tried to upload the airlines terms and conditions. She said this wouldve avoided some of 
the frustration he experienced.
She acknowledged that Mr H had now received a refund, but she said hed not received the 
service he shouldve done. Taking everything into account, she thought that JLFSLs offer of 
£100 compensation in recognition of the frustration it had caused was fair and reasonable.
Mr H says hes disappointed with the level of compensation. And he says JLFSL shouldve 
been able to make a quicker claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act rather than 
waiting for it to undertake a chargeback that he hadnt requested.
Our investigator wrote to Mr H and explained the key differences between making a claim 
under Section 75 and under the chargeback process. But she also explained to Mr H that 
 neither a chargeback or Section 75 are a guarantee that a consumer will recover their 
funds. Its not uncommon for a bank to deal with a customer dispute by raising a chargeback 
first and then, if that is declined, to consider whether a valid claim exists under Section 75. 
Usually, it wont make too much of a difference as to which route a bank follows, so long as 
the bank acts fairly and reasonably in assisting its customer to recover their funds.
Mr H disagree so the complaint comes to me to decide. He says £100 compensation is an 
insult.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything very carefully, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator.
In this particular complaint, Im only looking at the delays and the associated level of service 
that Mr H received from JLFSL. This is because although Mr H paid for flights that were 
subsequently cancelled, and he was, initially, unable to get a refund from the airline, both 
parties have confirmed that Mr H has now received a full refund.
It might be helpful if I explain that in some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund 
from the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment 
settlement disputes are resolved between card holders and suppliers/merchants. They are 
dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules, in this case thats Mastercard. In certain 
circumstances the process provides a way for JLFSL to ask for a payment Mr H made to be refunded. Those circumstances include where goods or services arent supplied by the 
company Mr H paid.
Theres no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one.
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists
and there is a reasonable chance of success.
In this case, it appears that Mr H wasnt provided with the goods that he originally paid for  
the airline cancelled his flights. And in normal circumstances, it would seem reasonable to 
expect JLFSL to raise a chargeback for him, as Im satisfied that this scenario is one that is 
likely covered within the chargeback rules.
Its not unusual for a chargeback to take some time to process. It can take time for a bank to 
gather the correct and necessary information needed to raise the claim, and the chargeback 
rules also require banks to give suppliers time to respond to any chargeback raised, in case 
they want to dispute it. But even so, in normal circumstances, Id have expected JLFSL to 
have resolved this chargeback sooner than it did. 
I dont doubt for a moment that this whole experience was worrying and stressful for Mr H. 
Hed booked flights, and from what hes told us, his experience in trying to contact the airline 
for two months, without success, wouldve caused him a great deal of anxiety.
But I cant hold JLFSL responsible for any of this and ultimately it was the airline who caused 
the initial problems here as it didnt give Mr H his money back when it seems it should have.
I also need to take into account that these werent normal circumstances; it was an 
unprecedented and unusual time for the banks, when Mr H first contacted JLFSL, dealing 
with significant numbers of enquires from consumers looking to get money back as the 
global pandemic unfolded. Many of these claims will have brought up issues which were 
relatively novel, and the banks were having to digest new information, rules and guidance at 
a very unusual time. And many firms faced operational challenges during this period.
Ive thought carefully about the service JLFSL provided. I think it shouldve better explained 
to Mr H the chargeback process and why it had chosen this route to a refund over a claim 
under Section 75. And it shouldve undertaken a more thorough investigation when Mr H first 
contacted it - and established more quickly that it needed further information from him and 
identified a convenient way for him to get that information to it. Taking all this into account, I 
do think JLFSL should pay Mr H something to compensate him for the poor service it 
provided and the distress and inconvenience it caused.
Mr H says the £100 compensation offered by JLFSL isnt enough  its an insult. But I need 
to tell Mr H that my role isnt to punish businesses for its performance or behaviour  thats 
the role of the regulator. My role is to look at problems that a consumer may have 
experienced and see if the business, in this case JLFSL, has done anything wrong. If it has, 
we seek to put the consumer back in the position they wouldve been in if the mistakes 
hadnt happened. And we may award compensation that we think is fair and reasonable.
Ive noted that JLFSL has already offered Mr H £100 in recognition of the poor service it 
gave him after he first contacted it. And although I wouldve expected JLFSL to identify 
vulnerable customers who may need more immediate support and help, from the information 
I have, I dont think Mr H fell into this category. So, for the reasons Ive given, I think £100 
compensation is fair and reasonable.
Putting things rightIm going to ask John Lewis Financial Services Limited to pay Mr H the compensation it 
offered him, if it hasnt already done so. Thats the £100 in recognition of the poor service it 
provided. I think this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and I 
dont think John Lewis Financial Services Limited needs to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct John Lewis Financial Services 
Limited to pay Mr H £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman