DRN-3560596
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) repeatedly declined 
credit card transactions on his account and used the wrong mobile number to verify them.
What happened
Mr B holds a credit card account with Halifax. In or around October 2021, Mr B attempted to 
purchase airline flight tickets costing £767.34 using his Halifax credit card. But the 
transaction was declined. A second attempt to complete the transaction was also declined. 
So, Mr B chose to complete the purchase using his Halifax card through a different online 
payment service provider (PSP).
Mr B wasnt happy that Halifax appeared to have declined his original payment attempts. So, 
he complained to them. He said this wasnt the first time Halifax had declined transactions, 
even though he had plenty of credit available within his limit. Using the alternative PSP also 
meant he would lose any payment protection under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
(S75). He wanted Halifax to compensate him for inconvenience, annoyance and damage to 
reputation together with the loss of his S75 protection.
Having submitted his complaint, Mr B discovered that Halifax had sent an SMS text 
message (text) to his partner asking to confirm the payment attempt was genuine. He didnt 
think this was right as the text shouldve been sent to his mobile phone  his was the number 
recorded against his account with them. He added this to his complaint.
The following day, Mr B noticed that his original transaction attempt had now been 
authorised. He was concerned that the payment had been processed twice. He added this to 
his complaint with Halifax.
Mr B also complained that a payment attempt hed made for overseas vehicle hire had been 
declined by Halifax. Again, a text had been sent to his partners mobile phone. He didnt 
think this was right.
A few days later, Mr B noticed that his ticket purchase had resulted in two equal amounts of 
£383.67 appearing as approved on his Halifax credit card account. This despite him only 
making one payment of £767.34. He also noticed that the same amounts had appeared on 
his statement with the PSP, but these didnt appear on his Halifax account. He didnt 
understand what had happened and remained concerned the payment(s) would be 
processed twice.
Halifax responded to Mr Bs complaints in a letter. They didnt agree theyd done anything 
wrong. They said Mr Bs original transactions were declined as they wanted to verify them 
with him. They said they sent a text to do this. They said a third transaction request was then 
received from the airline using a different authorisation method. They approved that 
transaction. Halifax said the third transaction was requested by the airline in two separate 
amounts of £383.67, but they have no control over how the payment was requested.
Having reviewed Mr Bs account, they couldnt find any record of payments being requested 
by the PSP and they were unable to comment on those. They suggested Mr B contact that 
PSP himself.
As regards the vehicle hire payment, they said this had been stopped for review by their 
fraud team and a text was sent, which Mr B responded to. This enabled the transaction to be 
completed.
Finally, Halifax said that Mr B had amended the mobile phone number used for payment 
authentication to that of his partner in September 2021. At the time, he was told to contact 
Halifax again if he wanted it to be changed back to his own.
Mr B wasnt happy with Halifaxs response to his complaints. So, contacted this service to 
consider matters further. Our investigator didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong, so 
didnt need to do anything more. Mr B didnt agree with our investigators findings. He 
thought Halifaxs actions meant hed lost his S75 protection and led him to be worried hed 
been charged twice.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Bs complaint has been passed to me to consider 
and issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs experience initially stemmed from Halifaxs fraud prevention and payment 
authentication processes and procedures.  It isnt the role of this service to ask a business to 
alter its procedures or processes or impose improvements on the level of service offered to 
their customers. These aspects fall firmly within the remit of the regulator  in this case, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
But it is our role to examine and decide whether a business has been fair and reasonable in 
the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual 
circumstances of Mr Bs experience with them. When deciding whats fair and reasonable, 
Im required to consider; relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance 
and standards and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
When Mr B attempted the original transaction, Halifaxs systems flagged it to be verified. 
This is common practice amongst credit card providers and helps to ensure neither Mr B nor 
Halifax fall victim to fraudulent payment attempts. Halifaxs usual process involves sending a 
verification text to a mobile number agreed with Mr B, asking him to confirm that the 
transaction is legitimate. Halifax did that here. But the text was sent to Mr Bs partners 
mobile phone.
Halifax have explained that a similar verification was required while Mr B was overseas in 
September 2021. On that occasion, Mr B spoke with Halifax over the telephone. 
Unfortunately, he didnt have his own mobile phone with him at the time. So, Halifax agreed 
to amend the mobile number used for verification to that of his partner. Halifax clearly 
explained he should contact them again if he wanted to change the number back. But Ive 
seen no evidence to suggest Mr B did that. So, I cant reasonably say that Halifax did 
anything wrong when they sent verification texts to his partners number.
Having unsuccessfully tried to complete the transaction twice, Mr B chose to use a different 
PSP to make the payment. The particular PSP used provide two options. Mr B can either 
make payment from an account held with the PSP or use them to process transactions using 
his credit or debit card. Mr B chose to complete the transaction through the PSP using his 
Halifax credit card.
At the time, it seems Mr B wasnt aware the verification texts had been sent. Using the 
different PSP resulted in a different authorisation process. Because Mr B was already known 
to and verified by that PSP, the request was treated differently by Halifax. That appears 
reasonable as the request would have reached them as already verified.It seem the airline processed that payment request differently, resulting in the transaction 
being split into two equal amounts. Again, I cant reasonably hold Halifax responsible for how 
the airline present the request(s). They can only process the claims as theyre presented to 
them.
Mr B was concerned he would be charged twice, and I can understand why he would think 
that. Particularly as he later discovered that the text had been sent to his partner and Halifax 
have confirmed they later received a response to that text. But it appears the airline may 
have cancelled the original payment requests on the strength of the payment(s) made 
through the other PSP. Im sure theyd be able to confirm that. Ive seen nothing to suggest 
Mr B has paid twice. So, I cant see that hes suffered any financial loss here.
Mr B later pointed out to our investigator that the two payments of £383.67 on his Halifax 
statement included a numeric reference identical to that used with other transactions 
previously processed through the PSP he used. But they didnt show the PSP name. 
I asked Halifax whether the transactions were originated through that PSP. They werent 
able to confirm that as no other information was included in the claim(s). However, as the 
reference appears to be identical to other payments Mr B has made through that provider, 
on balance I think its likely they do relate to that PSP. And as Mr B also has identical 
amounts appearing on his PSP statement, Im persuaded they are one and the same.
Mr B is unhappy he may have lost any S75 protection for the purchase. Halifax have said 
the only transactions that dont benefit from Section 75 are ones where the PSP balance 
has been used rather than the card held on the account wallet. Here Mr B didnt use any 
balance on his PSP account. He merely used the PSP to process a payment from his Halifax 
credit card account. So, S75 would still apply. In any event, Mr B has now confirmed hes 
used the flight ticket(s) and Im not aware he has any reason to make a claim. So again, I 
cant see that Mr Bs suffered any loss.
As Ive mentioned above, all credit card providers use fraud prevention and additional 
verification procedures to protect themselves and their customers from fraudulent payment 
attempts. Thats what I would expect them to do. And the frequency of these checks can be 
driven by the nature and frequency of transactions seen on an account. I appreciate these 
checks can be inconvenient. But I dont see them as unreasonable as the benefit is 
ultimately better than the alternative.
Had Mr B changed the mobile phone number Halifax used for verification, I believe he 
wouldve received their text(s) and been able to respond. This shouldve ensured his original 
transaction was processed without delay. 
As regards the vehicle hire transaction, the same process was followed by Halifax. But on 
this occasion, the text message was responded to and the transaction authorised. So, again, 
I cant fairly say that Mr Bs suffered any loss or that Halifax did anything wrong.
I realise Mr B will be disappointed, but I cant reasonably find that Halifax did anything wrong 
or treated him unfairly or unreasonably here. So, I wont be asking them to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman