DRN-4144857
The complaint
Mr A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund money he lost after falling 
victim to a scam.
What happened
In 2022, someone added Mr A as a friend via an instant messaging app. Mr A says that he 
didnt know the person who added him but says they had over 10,000 friends. They were 
selling a second-hand camera that Mr A was interested in, so he contacted them and asked 
about the camera.
Mr A agreed to pay £550 for the camera and made a payment of £250 from his Monzo 
account, as well as a payment of £300 from an account he held with another bank.
Mr A never received the camera and raised a fraud claim with Monzo in May 2022.
Monzo looked into Mr As fraud claim but declined to refund him. They considered his claim 
under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) and said an exception to 
reimbursement applied as Mr A hadnt done sufficient checks to ensure the seller and the 
goods were genuine. Monzo contacted the bank Mr A sent his money to but were unable to 
recover any of his funds.
Mr A wasnt happy with Monzos response, so he brought a complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into his complaint and upheld it. The investigator felt that Mr A had a 
reasonable basis for believing the seller and the goods were genuine, so Monzo should fully 
refund him and pay interest on that refund.
Monzo disagreed with the investigators opinion saying the instant messaging app that Mr A 
used to buy the camera doesnt facilitate selling goods or have a checkout facility like other 
social media platforms. They also highlighted that the app Mr A used is designed to have 
messages disappear.
As the case couldnt be resolved it was passed to me to review.
My provisional decision
On 24 April 2023, I issued a provisional decision explaining I was intending to reach a 
different outcome than the investigator and wanted to give both parties a chance to respond 
before I issue a final decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
Monzo arent a signatory to the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) but 
have agreed to adhere to the provisions of the Code. The CRM Code requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like 
this, in all but a limited number of circumstances.
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*:
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that 
the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or service; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
* There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code, but they dont apply to this case.
Having reviewed the case, I agreed that Monzo can rely on this exception to reimbursement 
for the following reasons:
Mr A was added as a friend by someone he didnt know. Mr A didnt find the person 
and add them because he was looking to purchase an item, instead they contacted 
him out of the blue. Its not clear why they added Mr A as a friend or how they had 
selected him, and I wouldve expected Mr A to ask questions about this.
The messaging app that Mr A used isnt a standard platform used for buying or 
selling because the app deletes all messages after a short period of time. So, it 
provides no history or record of any exchanges between the parties, including any 
record of what was being sold/brought and what was agreed by both parties.
Mr A agreed to buy the camera for £550 but says similar cameras hed seen 
advertised were generally priced at £600 to £700. He says the seller told him that he 
was selling the camera as he needed to pay his daughters school fees. But with 
such a significant discount in the price, I believe Mr A shouldve been concerned and 
done checks to verify the legitimacy of the seller and the goods before paying for the 
item.
Ultimately Mr A was agreeing to buy an item from someone he didnt know, who 
contacted him out of the blue and who hadnt proven they possessed the item they 
were selling.
Taking all of these points into consideration as a whole, rather than on an individual basis, 
Im not satisfied Mr A had a reasonable basis to believe that he was dealing with someone 
who was legitimately selling a camera. I think there were enough red flags that Mr A 
shouldve taken steps to verify the authenticity of the person he was dealing with and the 
goods they were selling before making the payment.
But I also considered whether Monzo met the standards set for them under the CRM Code.
In this case, the payment Mr A made was for £250. Based on the size of the payment and 
Mr As previous account usage, Im not persuaded that Monzo shouldve identified an APP 
scam risk and therefore they werent required to give an effective warning. On that basis, Im 
satisfied that Monzo met the standards set for them.
I can see that Monzo contacted the bank Mr A sent his money to promptly on being made 
aware of the scam. But unfortunately, no funds remained in the beneficiarys account. So, 
Im satisfied Monzo took appropriate steps to try and recover Mr As funds.Im sorry to disappoint Mr A and realise that losing this money has had a serious impact on 
him. But, for the reasons given above, Im cant fairly ask Monzo to refund him.
Responses to my provisional decision
Monzo accepted my provisional decision and said they had nothing further to add.
Mr A hasnt provided a response, despite us contacting him on 16 May to remind him of the 
deadline to respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided me any new information or evidence, I see no reason to reach 
a different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. On that basis, I dont 
uphold this complaint for the reasons I set out above in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman