DRN-3589989
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Hoist Finance UK Limited recorded an account on his credit file, 
as he says the name on the account is not an alias of his.
What happened
This complaint surrounds a defaulted credit card account that Hoist reported on Mr Ks credit 
file. They linked it to him based on a trace they did through a credit reference agency. The 
credit reference agency said they were highly confident that the name on the account was 
an alias of Mr Ks.
Mr K says that this is not his account, and that the name is not an alias of his. He feels that 
Hoist were wrong to rely on the information from the credit reference agency, that the data 
hadnt been interrogated enough, and that Hoist should have told him before adding the 
default to his credit file.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr K 
asked for his case to be reviewed afresh, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Hoist challenged the data from the credit reference agency, and the agency 
carried out a comprehensive review. They concluded that the name on the account was an 
alias of Mr Ks. For example, they found that the person who opened the account had a first 
name which matched Mr Ks middle name. He shared the exact same surname as Mr K, and 
the same date of birth. This person also shared historic address data with Mr K, and he held 
the same director position of the same limited company. The credit reference agency were 
unable to find any separate individual with all these details  as far as they could see, the 
person who opened the account was Mr K.
The data was pulled from multiple reliable sources, and following a comprehensive review, 
the credit reference agency reported with high confidence that the name on the disputed 
account was an alias of Mr Ks. It is a standard practice to trace customers using credit 
reference agencies in this way.
Taking everything into account, I think it was reasonable for Hoist to rely on the information 
from the credit reference agency, and to report the account on Mr Ks credit file. I can see 
that the data was interrogated sufficiently.
To clarify, there was no requirement for Hoist to warn Mr K or ask for his input before adding 
the account to his credit file. The account had already been defaulted long before, and the 
appropriate default notice had been sent to the registered address at the time by the original 
lender, so Hoist did not need to send an additional default notice.
I understand that this will not be the outcome that Mr K was hoping for, but I cannot see that 
Hoist did anything substantially wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint in this case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman