DRN-3898768
The complaint
Mr M complains Nationwide Building Society refused to refund payments made from his 
account under the direct debit indemnity guarantee.
 
What happened
Mr M contacted Nationwide to make a direct debit indemnity claim under the direct debit 
guarantee for payments made to a merchant during the period 2000  2012. He said he 
wanted a refund because he had recently become aware that  since he hadnt used the 
services covered by the merchant  he didnt need to pay the merchant during that period.
 
Nationwide looked into Mr Ms claim but said they werent going to refund the payments. 
They said this was because Mr Ms reasons for the claim werent covered by the guarantee. 
Mr M complained to Nationwide about their decision. They reiterated they thought Mr Ms 
claim wasnt covered by the guarantee, but they did say their communication about his claim 
had been poor  so they credited his account with £25 as an apology and in recognition of 
the inconvenience caused.
 
Mr M wasnt happy with this response, so he referred his complaint to our service. An 
Investigator considered what had happened. He said, in summary, he didnt think Nationwide 
had acted unfairly by declining Mr Ms claim because he also didnt think the guarantee 
applied to Mr Ms situation. He said he didnt think the payments had been taken in error in 
the sense that the guarantee was intended to cover. He also felt, like Nationwide, that this 
was more of a contractual dispute.
Mr M said he didnt agree because he felt the payments were taken in error and it couldnt 
be a contractual dispute because he didnt have a written contract with the merchant. 
As Mr M didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The direct debit guarantee is designed to protect customers from having payments wrongly 
taken from their accounts. If an error is made when taking the direct debits, customers are 
entitled to a full and immediate refund of the amount thats been debited from their bank or 
building society. But this doesnt affect the rights and obligations of the parties under the 
original contract and doesnt apply in all circumstances. 
Mr M wants to be refunded for payments made over a 12-year period, up to 2012. So hes 
claiming for a significant number of payments and even the most recent of those payments 
took place a long time ago, over ten years ago.
 
Mr M believes hes entitled to a refund because he says, at the time, he believed he needed 
the services of the merchant. But its now his understanding that he didnt need them 
because he didnt use any of the services covered between 2000 and 2012. So, as he didnt 
use any of the services the merchant covers, hes paid for something he didnt use. Mr M 
thinks that this means the payments were taken from his account in error. 
But Mr M doesnt dispute that he set up the direct debit. In doing so, he was authorising the 
merchant to debit his account in exchange for them providing him with the right to use the 
services they covered. It would seem, at the time, these payments were taken in line with 
Mr Ms expectations. So I dont agree the payments were taken in error and Ive seen 
nothing to suggest the issues Mr M has raised are covered by the direct debit guarantee.
 
Both Nationwide and our Investigator have described the basis of Mr Ms claim as a 
contractual dispute  which specifically isnt covered by the guarantee. Mr M says he didnt 
have a contract with the merchant  so it cant be a contractual dispute. But the fact hes 
now decided he didnt need their services or that a written contract hasnt been provided, 
after hed previously authorised them to take the payments, doesnt mean he didnt have a 
contractual relationship with them at the time. And, as I dont agree the payments were taken 
in error  the circumstances of Mr Ms claim arent covered by the guarantee. So I dont find 
Nationwide treated Mr M unfairly by not refunding his payments under the direct debit 
guarantee.  
Mr M first raised the claim with Nationwide on 18 September 2022 but they didnt confirm the 
outcome of the claim until they wrote to him on 17 October 2022. During this time Mr M 
requested frequent updates from Nationwide via webchat but wasnt always provided with 
clear or helpful information about what was happening. Nationwide paid Mr M £25 in 
recognition of this and I find this is fair having reviewed Mr Ms contact with Nationwide. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman