DRN-3137363
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC wouldnt raise a chargeback claim on his behalf.
What happened
Mr S puchased a used car using his Lloyds debit card. When Mr S received the car, he was 
unhappy with the state of the vehicle and sought a refund from the seller. When he was 
unable to obtain refund, Mr S approached Lloyds and asked for the money to be recovered 
on his behalf.
Lloyds looked at raising a chargeback claim for Mr S and asked Mr S to provide evidence of 
the faulty nature of the car within 14 days to enable to claim to be processed. Mr S didnt 
provide any evidence but contacted Lloyds again approximately six months later and asked 
that the chargeback claim be progressed. Lloyds informed Mr S at that time that it was no 
longer possible to progress the chargeback claim as it was now longer than 120 days since 
the date of transaction. Mr S wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint. 
Lloyds looked at Mr Ss complaint. They confirmed that the timeframe within which the 
chargeback claim could be raised had expired, and so they didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at Mr Ss complaint, but they also felt that Mr S had asked Lloyds 
to progress the claim too late and outside of the relevant timeframe and so they also didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
Mr S remained dissatisfied, so the matter as escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has explained to this service that the reason that he didnt progress with the 
chargeback claim in the first instance, and provide the evidence to Lloyds that Lloyds 
requested, was because the seller had agreed to fix the car such that he thought that the 
claim was no longer required. 
Unfortunately, it later transpired that the underlying issue with the car hadnt been fixed, and 
so Mr S attempted to proceed with the chargeback claim, only to discover that this was no 
longer possible.
Id like to clarify what a chargeback claim is. Its a process by which some disputes are 
resolved between the card issuer, in this case Lloyds, and merchants, in this case the car 
seller, under the relevant card scheme rules. 
 
These rules are set by the card provider, whose symbol is on the card. The card provider 
has an agreement with banks and building societies as to how its cards are used, and this 
agreement covers when an attempt at a chargeback can be made. The rules are quite strict, 
and Lloyds doesn't have the power to change them. One of these rules limits how long after 
a disputed transaction a chargeback claim can be raised. 
 
Its also important to note that a chargeback claim isnt a right that a customer has  its a 
voluntary act, and this means that Lloyds werent required to ask the card issuer for the 
transaction to be reversed via the chargeback scheme, although it is considered good 
practice for them to do so, if they think the chargeback claim is likely to succeed. 
But in this instance Lloyds didnt feel that the chargeback claim would be successful, and 
this was because the relevant chargeback rules included that the claim had to be made 
within 120 days of the transaction under dispute. 
And, given that Mr S bought the car in October 2020, but was asking for the chargeback 
claim to be progressed in May 2021, its clear that Mr S was asking for the chargeback claim 
to be progressed after the 120 day time limit set by the chargeback rules had expired. As 
such, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Lloyds to have declined to raise the chargeback 
claim as Mr S wanted, and that it isnt the case that an unfair outcome has arisen as a result. 
Unfortunately, Mr S has simply asked Lloyds to progress the claim too late.
All of which means I find it difficult to conclude that Lloyds have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here. Im aware that Mr S would like this service to consider Lloyds entire 
response to his request for help, and not just whether the chargeback claim should have 
been raised. But a chargeback claim was the appropriate route for Lloyds to take here, and 
given that it ultimately Mr Ss choice not to provide the evidence requested by Lloyds and the 
progress the claim in the first instance  when the claim was within the time limit  I dont 
feel that I can fairly or reasonably censure Lloyds for their actions here.
It follows then that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any 
further action at this time. I hope that Mr S is able to find a resolution to this issue via 
alternative channels, but Im satisfied that Lloyds havent done anything wrong in declining to 
progress Mr Ss chargeback complaint in the manner that they have.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr S was wanting, but I trust that hell 
understand, given the above, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman