DRN-3329451
The complaint
Mr M complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt refund a payment.
What happened
Mr M opened a new account with Halifax and paid some money in. Mr M checked his 
account and saw a payment he hadnt made.
Mr M visited a Halifax branch and asked for a refund. Halifax didnt agree to refund the 
payment. Mr M spoke to Halifax a couple of times and then logged a complaint online.
Halifax reviewed this complaint and agreed to refund the payment. The refund was made 
two days after Mr M first asked for a refund. Halifax apologised to Mr M, it said it should have 
refunded the payment sooner and offered Mr M £50 to compensate for the distress.
Mr M said hed been very stressed Halifaxs refusal to refund the payment. Mr M is studying, 
hed missed lessons and been unable to hand in assignments because he was so worried 
about not getting the money back.
Mr M didnt feel £50 was enough to compensate for the stress he experienced. Mr M wanted 
Halifax to cover his tuition fees if he failed his course, because hed been so distressed by 
what happened. Halifax didnt increase its offer of £50.
Mr M brought his complaint to this service and an investigator looked into things. The 
investigator thought Halifax had done the wrong thing by not refunding Mr M when he first 
asked for the refund.
But the investigator thought Halifax had resolved things fairly by refunding Mr M soon after 
he first complained. The investigator also thought the £50 Halifax had offered was enough to 
compensate Mr M for the distress.
Mr M disagreed. Mr M said hed missed classes because he was in the branch asking for a 
refund. Mr M said this will likely cause him to fail his exam. Mr M also said hed missed a test 
costing £500. Mr M asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax has refunded the transaction Mr M says he didnt make, so I wont be deciding if it 
was fair to refund Mr M.
Halifax has admitted it should have refunded Mr M sooner. The only thing I think I need to 
decide is if the amount of compensation offered by Halifax is fair.
Mr M has clearly explained the distress not getting a refund caused him. But most of this 
distress wasnt foreseeable by Halifax. I dont think it would have been expected a failure to 
refund would have the effects Mr M has explained.
Mr M had money left in his account after the disputed payment left. Mr M didnt make a 
payment from his account for some time after hed received the refund, so I dont think Mr M 
was unable to access money whilst he waited for his refund.
Mr M says because he had to go to the branch to ask for the refund he missed classes. But I 
can see Mr M called Halifax twice later the same day. And Mr M logged an online complaint.
I think its reasonable to expect Mr M could have called rather than going to branch. And its 
therefore reasonable to think Mr M could have made those calls at more convenient times.
And Mr M could have logged his online complaint at any time.
I dont think its reasonable to say Halifax caused Mr M to miss any classes. And because of 
this I dont think it would be fair to hold Halifax liable if Mr M fails his course.
Mr M says he missed an exam and this cost him a significant amount of money. Again, I 
think Mr M was able to ask for his refund in ways other than visiting the branch.
Mr M hasnt provided any proof of this loss. And, in any event, it doesnt make sense Mr M 
would miss an exam that cost more than the payment he was asking to be refunded. 
Mr M says he was very distressed by the lack of refund. I agree this will have been very 
frustrating. Mr M called Halifax and logged a complaint online, and he wouldnt have needed 
to do this if Halifax refunded him when he first asked.
Its right Halifax does something to apologise for this, and I think the offer of £50 is fair in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Ms complaint and Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
should pay Mr M £50 to compensate him, if it hasnt already paid this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022. 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman