DRN-3889859
The complaint
Mr Q complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
N.I.I.B. Group Limited, trading as Northridge Finance, (who Ill call Northridge).
What happened
Mr Q took receipt of a used car in March 2020. He financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with Northridge. When supplied the car was about four years old and had 
completed about 18,000 miles.
Mr Q had issues with the oil level in the car and eventually, in January 2022, the engine 
failed.
An independent inspection was completed in July 2022 and the inspector thought the fault 
had most likely been developing since the car was supplied to Mr Q. The inspector therefore 
considered the business to be responsible for costs.
The car was repaired by the dealership in October 2022, they replaced the engine and Mr Q 
has confirmed its been working well since that repair. 
Our investigator didnt think the car had been of satisfactory quality. He didnt think the delay 
in getting it repaired was Mr Qs fault and he suggested Northridge should therefore refund 
the finance instalments Mr Q had paid whilst the car had been awaiting repair, refund the 
cost of the independent inspection Mr Q had commissioned, and pay Mr Q £200 in respect 
of the distress and inconvenience hed experienced.
Northridge agreed to pay Mr Q the £200 and to refund the cost of the report. But they didnt 
think it was fair to refund all the instalments whilst the car was awaiting repair. They said the 
dealership had always been prepared to investigate the fault and that the delay was due to 
Mr Q wanting to take third party advice. They said they were prepared to refund two monthly 
instalments but were not prepared to refund all of the instalments the investigator had 
suggested.
As Northridge didnt agree with the investigators view the complaint has been referred for a 
decision by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Northridge, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr Q acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Northridge, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
I dont think either party are disputing that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. The 
independent inspector has confirmed that was likely to be the case as Mr Q had been 
complaining about oil level warnings since he took receipt of the vehicle. On the basis of the 
inspectors expert opinion, I would agree that the car was of unsatisfactory quality.
In those circumstances the relevant legislation allows the business an opportunity to repair 
the car. As Mr Q has confirmed the car is now working satisfactorily I dont think the 
business need to take any further action in relation to the fault with the vehicle.
But its not fair that Mr Q was paying for a car he was unable to drive; he shouldnt have to 
pay for an independent inspection report, and hes suffered some distress and 
inconvenience that its fair hes compensated for.
Northridge have agreed to refund the inspection report costs and to pay £200 in respect of 
the distress and inconvenience caused. I think thats fair.
Ive thought about whether it is fair to ask Northridge to refund the finance instalments Mr Q 
paid whilst the car was off the road, awaiting repair. I think it is. When Mr Q took the car to 
the dealership in January 2022 the damage to the engine was clear. There was a hole in it 
where the timing gears had broken through the casing. The dealership knew the history of 
the car as messages show Mr Q had told them about the oil warning lights previously, had 
provided several photographs showing the warning messages on his dash over time, and 
had asked them to resolve the issue whilst they were completing the January 2022 service. 
That was enough evidence to demonstrate to the independent inspector that the fault was 
most likely developing from the inception of the deal, and Im persuaded that in January 
2022 there was enough evidence to demonstrate that to the dealership too.
I cant see that the dealership offered much support to Mr Q at that point. They didnt accept 
responsibility for the cost of the repair or keep Mr Q mobile with a courtesy car. As Mr Q had 
been in possession of the car for so long the relevant legislation put the onus on him to 
prove the fault was most likely to have been present when the car was supplied to him.
Given the lack of responsiveness from the dealership, their reluctance to take responsibility 
for the repair without further analysis, and Mr Qs understandable need to gather 
independent evidence, I dont think it was unreasonable for him to commission an 
independent inspection. I therefore think its fair that Northridge should refund (or waive if 
they were due and werent paid) the finance instalments for the period when the car was off 
the road and awaiting repair. I think that period was between 18 January and 19 October 
2022.Putting things right
Northridge will need to put things right for Mr Q in the way Ive set out above. Theyll need to 
add 8% interest to any refunds as Mr Q has been deprived of that money.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and tell N.I.I.B. Group Limited to:
Refund any finance instalments paid (or waive them if they were due and werent 
paid) when the car was off the road and awaiting repair between 18 January 2022 
and 19 October 2022. Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement.
Pay Mr Q £200 in respect of the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
Refund the £276 Mr Q paid for the independent inspection and add 8% simple 
interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman