DRN-2248334
The complaint
Mr F complains about the poor service provided by AWP P&C SA (AWP) when he made a 
claim under his home emergency insurance policy.
Reference to AWP includes all agents acting on its behalf. Mr F is represented in this 
complaint by his wife but, for ease, Ill refer to Mr F throughout.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
On the evidence, Im satisfied Mr Fs boiler wasnt beyond economic repair when 
AWP inspected it in November 2019. AWPs engineer said three parts needed 
replacing and they had been discontinued. But a third party subsequently repaired 
the boiler by replacing one part, which was readily available. So, I think the first 
diagnosis by AWP was wrong.
I think its more likely than not the boiler would have been repaired sooner had 
AWPs engineer correctly diagnosed the fault when he inspected the boiler.
I note that, even when the third party arrived, it took several days to repair the boiler 
because of the need to order the appropriate parts. So, I think it was likely to have 
taken at least this long to repair the boiler even if AWP had correctly diagnosed the 
fault. 
Mr F was always likely to suffer a degree of stress and inconvenience with a claim of 
this nature, particularly at the time of year these events took place, when demand for 
the service is high. 
But AWPs mistake meant Mr F and his family were without hot water and heating for 
several days longer than they should have been. This caused unnecessary stress 
and disruption to their family life. They had to make alternative arrangements for 
washing and showering and Mr F says the situation was very stressful and caused 
much inconvenience and anxiety. 
AWP accept it provided a poor service when Mr Fs wife was in contact with them in 
the first three days of the claim. She had problems contacting them, didnt receive 
call backs as promised and she had to speak to a number of different people to 
understand what was happening. AWP gave Mr F £60 in vouchers to recognise that 
poor service.
AWP later offered an additional £75 for the concern and inconvenience caused - but 
Mr F didnt accept that amount. 
Putting things right
In light of the above, I think it was right that AWP apologised for the service it provided and 
offered an amount to recognise the inconvenience it caused. But taking everything into 
account, I think it needs to do more to put things right. I think £350 would be a fair and 
reasonable way of resolving this complaint. I know AWP feels that is excessive as Mr F and 
his family were always going to have to deal with a certain amount of inconvenience. But the 
poor service it provided made the situation much worse than it needed to be and I think £350 
is fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order to resolve Mr Fs 
complaint, AWP P&C SA should pay Mr F £350 for the distress and inconvenience its poor 
service caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman