DRN-2662747
The complaint
Miss C complains on behalf of the estate of Mr B about Etico Group Limiteds (Etico) 
handling of claims for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI). Miss C wants Etico to 
compensate the estate of Mr B for the value of the PPI claims and also for loss of 
opportunity to pursue the claims. 
  
What happened
Miss C got in touch with Etico to pursue claims for mis-sold PPI on six accounts which were 
held by her late father, Mr B. Etico submitted a claim for one of these but no claim was made 
for the remaining five before the deadline of 29 August 2019.      
Miss C complained to Etico. She said a member of staff claimed they had tried to call her on 
three occasions to get further information  she said she didnt have any record of receiving 
a call. She also complained about the PPI claims not being submitted before the deadline 
date. Etico responded and upheld the complaint. They explained the file didnt show there 
had been unsuccessful attempts to call Miss C and agreed she had been misinformed. They 
also accepted they had received a letter of authority from Miss C in July 2019 relating to 
Lender S. They said, due to an administrative oversight, this wasnt actioned before the 
deadline on 29 August. They explained it was now too late to claim. They apologised for the 
errors and put forward a proposal to put things right in relation to the part of the complaint 
relating to the missed deadline for the claims. They proposed seeking a Data Subject 
Access Request (DSAR) to establish whether there was any PPI applied to accounts held by 
the late Mr B  and if so, how much. They said they would then be in a position to offer a 
final resolution to the complaint. Miss C provided further information and, having not heard 
back from Etico, she referred her complaint to our service.   
Our investigator looked into things for the estate of Mr B and thought there had been errors 
by Etico. Our investigator recommended Etico should pay compensation of £250 and send 
out a DSAR to the five remaining lenders to find out whether the accounts the late Mr B held 
with them had PPI applied. Etico and Miss C agreed with the investigators view so the 
matter was closed. 
Etico havent sent the DSARs to the lenders so the complaint was reopened and has come 
to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to the estate of Mr B. The key facts about this 
complaint arent in dispute. Etico have admitted they got things wrong when they missed the 
deadline date to submit claims to five lenders. They also accept there was an error when 
Miss C was misinformed about phone calls and not responding to her emails requesting an 
update. 
I think its right that Etico compensate the estate of Mr B and I agree with the investigators 
recommendation of £250. I can see this has been agreed by Miss C and Etico.
 
Following the investigators views being shared, Etico say they will contact Miss C about the 
DSARs. They say, given that Mr B is deceased, they will need to establish the identity of the 
estate administrator and get authority from them. I understand this is necessary given that 
the accounts were held by the late Mr B, but I cant see Etico have taken these steps. I can 
see Miss C and our investigator have both chased Etico for an update but theres been no 
reply. Miss C has told us her late father didnt leave a will so theres no Grant of Probate. 
Also, from information provided by Miss C, including the value of Mr Bs estate, it doesnt 
appear there was a need for letters of administration. 
The information shows that the claim which was submitted  to Lender C  was done so on 
the basis of a letter of authority signed by Miss C. So, taking this into account, it appears the 
DSAR requests can be made on the basis of Miss C signing the forms. Etico should 
therefore write to Miss C with the DSAR forms for her to sign. I understand Miss Cs 
frustration at the time this has taken, particularly as Etico agreed with our service to take 
steps to contact Miss C to arrange for the DSARs to be signed. So, Etico should now 
contact Miss C with the DSARs and any other supporting documents, for the five remaining 
lenders, for signature within 14 calendar days of the date of my decision. Once the DSARs 
and any supporting documents have been signed and received, Etico should then send 
these to the relevant lenders within 14 calendar days.  
Etico have said they will consider any losses caused by their error and, once they have 
information showing any PPI, they will then be in a position to offer a final resolution to the 
estate of Mr B. I think this is a fair and reasonable thing to do. While I cant comment on 
what the results of the DSAR enquiries will be, the estate of Mr B can come back to our 
service if theres any concerns about any offers Etico might make following this. Etico say 
they have already paid the £250 compensation and Miss C confirms this has been received.   
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Etico havent acted reasonably by missing the deadline date to 
submit the late Mr Bs PPI claims to five lenders. Theyve also misinformed Miss C and 
havent replied to her emails. So, Etico should take the steps set out above and in the final 
decision section of my decision. The £250 compensation has already been paid.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Etico Group Limited must:
Write to Miss C within 14 calendar days with the DSARs and supporting documents 
for the five remaining lenders; and
Once these documents are signed and received by Etico Group Limited, they must 
send the relevant documents to the five lenders within 14 calendar days.  
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Paviter DhaddyOmbudsman