DRN-4089479
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd mis-sold her a reviewable whole of life policy.
Mrs K is represented by a claims management company (CMC), however Ill refer to any 
points made being from Mrs K throughout this decision.
What happened
Mrs K was advised to take out a reviewable whole of life policy in 1999. The policy provided 
£50,000 of life and critical illness cover for a monthly premium of £137.97. Mrs K 
surrendered the policy in 2010 and received around £6,000.
Mrs K complains that she wasnt made aware of any alternatives to this unit linked plan that 
she was sold. She also complains that the reviewable nature of the policy wasnt disclosed 
which was a concern as she wouldnt be able to afford any increases in retirement.
I sent out my provisional decision on 24 March 2023. I explained that I didnt intend to uphold 
the complaint. The relevant part is as follows:
Mrs K was 52 years old and married when she was sold her policy. The fact-find 
makes it clear that Mrs K was specifically looking for additional cover to what she 
already had in place because of a recent experience. The fact-find doesnt give a 
term for how long shed need this cover. I note that an original budget was discussed 
but the fact find says an increase of £50,000 cover was affordable for her at present. 
£50pm did not give her sufficient cover. So, Im satisfied that the cost of the cover 
was discussed.
Mrs Ks main complaint is that the reviewable nature of the policy meant it could 
become unaffordable. But I think it was clear from the documents that this was a 
reviewable cover. And, given there wasnt a set amount of time Mrs K wanted the 
cover for, a whole of life policy wasnt unsuitable for her objectives. I can also see 
that the advice was for it to be set up on a Lifetime Protection basis. The illustration 
explains that this is designed to provide a Lifestyle Plus Benefit which remains the 
same throughout your lifetime. The other options were on a maximum basis which 
would change significantly after ten years, and an Extra Cover basis which was in 
between so may change after ten years. So, Mrs K was sold something that was 
designed to stay the same throughout her life  and indeed did so throughout the 
time the policy was live.
Ive noted Mrs Ks point that she declined indexation as she was not comfortable 
with the increasing cost and her income might not increase substantially but I dont 
think that meant she shouldnt have been sold a reviewable whole of life policy set up 
on the basis that it was. Its clear to me that Mrs K wanted additional life and critical 
illness cover, and this policy provided that. And given it was unclear how long Mrs K 
wanted to keep this cover in place, I think a whole of life policy wasnt an unsuitable 
recommendation in these circumstances, rather than a term policy. Ive also noted 
the basis upon which the policy was set up was designed to provide the same level 
of cover throughout life so, I think this met her objectives.
Mrs K surrendered her policy in 2010. Shes explained she did this as shed retired in 
2005 and wanted to cut costs. I can see her premiums had remained the same up to 
that point and she received a surrender value. Ive seen no evidence that this policy 
was surrendered as it became unaffordable, but if this was the case this was a 
reflection on Mrs Ks later circumstances, rather than an increase in premiums as this 
remained the same throughout the life of the policy  as it was designed to do from 
the outset.
From the evidence Ive seen, I dont think the advice to take out this policy was 
unsuitable for Mrs K.
Response to provisional decision
Zurich didnt provide any further comments. Mrs K disagreed. Her representative made the 
following points:
- Affordability was clearly an issue as the policy was cashed in early and the 
reviewable nature wasnt mentioned to Mrs K.
- The adviser didnt ask Mrs K if she wanted to take any risks with her plan.
- Mrs K had considerable assets and cover so there was no need for this plan when 
affordability was an issue. The reviews werent explained and this wouldve caused 
affordability issues in the future.
- This policy wasnt suitable for Mrs K as she didnt require cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome set out in my provisional decision for the 
same reasons  the relevant part of which is included above and forms part of this decision.
I will address Mrs Ks additional points as to why Im not upholding this complaint. The 
overarching issue that Mrs K mentions is that the adviser failed to tell her that the plan was 
reviewable. Id already mentioned in my provisional decision that I was satisfied the 
documents Mrs K received at the outset made it clear that this policy was reviewable. And I 
set out why I didnt think it was unsuitable for her circumstances, Ive not been provided with 
any new evidence which leads me to conclude anything different.
Mrs K said she wanted additional cover, so whilst I appreciate she already had cover in 
place I dont think it was unsuitable for Zurich to have sold her additional cover when she 
requested it, particularly given shed done so following a significant experience in her life. 
Ive also noted that the policy was unit linked. Looking at the fact-find from the time of the 
sale I can see Mrs K had other policies exposed to some risk. In any event, the risk 
associated with this policy was made clear in the documents and I cant see that it made it 
unsuitable for Mrs Ks circumstances at the time  particularly given the basis on which it 
was set up.
Mrs K has mentioned affordability throughout this complaint. I can see that the premium was 
discussed, and I agree that it was clear she declined indexation. But its important to note 
that whilst this policy was reviewable, it was set up on a basis which was designed to remain 
the same throughout Mrs Ks life  that is that it was designed so it was unlikely shed need 
to increase her premiums. And I cant see that any increase was needed during the life of 
the policy. I do see that Mrs K decided to surrender the policy in 2010, but Ive not seen 
anything to suggest this was because the policy started out as being unaffordable. I think its 
likely Mrs K made that choice based on her circumstances at the time.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Zurich mis-sold this policy to Mrs K so Im not upholding the 
complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman