DRN-4339802
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Age Partnership Limited (APL) failed to treat her fairly when it 
assisted her with taking benefits from her pension savings.
What happened
Mrs T has been assisted in making this complaint by a claims management company. But in 
this decision, for ease, I will generally refer to all communication as having been with, and 
from, Mrs T herself.
Mrs T held pension savings with a provider I will call V. She engaged APL to provide her with 
assistance as she approached her 55th birthday with a view to using those pension savings 
to provide her with an additional income in the lead up to her retirement at age 60. After 
discussing Mrs Ts circumstances with her APL provided her with information about a fixed 
term annuity plan.
Mrs T agreed to proceed with the plan and APL assisted her with the application. Her 
pension funds were transferred from V, providing Mrs T with a pension commencement lump 
sum (PCLS  otherwise know as tax free cash) and a fixed income for the following five 
years. The terms of the plan did not provide for any residual maturity value.
Mrs T has complained that the plan was unsuitable for her needs, and so shouldnt have 
been recommended by APL. She says that her excess weight meant that she might have 
benefitted from an enhanced annuity. And she says that annuity rates, and the lack of any 
inflation protection in the annuity, meant that it was poor value for money. 
APL didnt agree with the complaint. It said that it hadnt provided any advice to Mrs T  just 
information. So it said she was responsible for the choice of how to use her pension savings. 
It said that it provided Mrs T with all the information she needed to make an informed 
decision. Mrs T didnt accept that outcome so brought her complaint to us.
Mrs Ts complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He agreed with APL that 
the information from the time didnt suggest that it had provided Mrs T with any advice. And 
he thought that the information APL had given to Mrs T was sufficient. So he didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld.
Mrs T didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs T and by APL. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, 
I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked 
at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what 
I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I think I first need to address the basis of the relationship between Mrs T and APL. There is 
no transcript or recording of the meetings that took place so I have no way of being sure 
about what was discussed. And Im conscious that despite best intentions, memories can 
and do fade over time. So I think it reasonable that I should rely on the documentation that 
was produced when Mrs T dealt with APL. Im satisfied that the documents I am relying on 
here were provided to Mrs T, and that she had time after any meetings to consider them at 
her leisure. So I think it likely that, if the contents of those documents contradicted any 
discussions that had been held, Mrs T might have raised the matter with APL.
APL says that it provided Mrs T with a copy of its client agreement. That set out that APL 
would not be providing Mrs T with advice or a recommendation about any retirement 
products. It told her that APL might ask her some questions to narrow down the selection of 
products that it would provide information on. But it told Mrs T that she would need to make 
her own choice about how to proceed. And that information was repeated in the report that 
APL provided to Mrs T about her options. That document told her that the report formed part 
of APLs guidance service and was not advice. It said that APL could not give her its opinion 
nor confirm whether a solution was suitable for her circumstances.
So on balance I am satisfied that Mrs T did not receive any regulated advice from APL, nor 
should she have had any expectation that advice had been given. That means it was Mrs Ts 
responsibility to make sure the form of pension benefits she chose were suitable for her 
circumstances, both at that time and in the future. But APL did need to provide Mrs T with 
sufficient information on which to base her decision.
Mrs T initially told APL that she wanted the annuity to provide her with income for a period of 
six years. APL provided information to Mrs T on that basis. But later Mrs T revised that 
period to five years. So APL provided Mrs T with new quotations based on the income being 
paid to her for a shorter period. And I think that underlines the passive nature of APLs role 
here  it was Mrs T who set the parameters that APL used when obtaining quotations for her 
consideration.
APL provided Mrs T with some high-level information about the different ways in which she 
could take her pension benefits. Within that information it told Mrs T that she might be able 
to receive an enhanced annuity, based on her health and lifestyle, if she took a lifetime 
pension annuity. But it didnt say that similar benefits were available on shorter, fixed term 
annuities such as that requested by Mrs T. 
Based on my experience I dont think there would have been any enhanced annuities 
available to Mrs T given her desire to only take the income over a five-year period, rather 
than for the rest of her life. I havent seen anything that would make me think she had any 
reasonable expectation that she would die before the end of that period. But, in any case, I note the fixed term annuity did provide an income guarantee should she die during the 
five-year period, again making an enhanced annuity being available unlikely.
APL warned Mrs T that her fixed term annuity was being set up with level payments. It told 
her that would mean the value of her payments would reduce over time due to inflation. It 
suggested that if she wished to combat that problem, Mrs T could instead purchase an 
Escalating Fixed Term annuity.
The quotations that APL gave to Mrs T, that had been produced by the product provider, 
clearly set out the cost of the fixed term annuity. And they told Mrs T what income she would 
receive in both annual terms, and the individual monthly payments. Mrs T accepted one of 
those quotations so it appears she was happy with both the cost of the annuity and the 
income it would provide.
I appreciate that Mrs T might now be unhappy with the decision she made in 2020 when she 
purchased the annuity. But I dont think she made that purchase on the basis of any advice 
that she received from APL. I think APL provided Mrs T with sufficient information on which 
she could base her decision to purchase the annuity. So I dont think APL has done anything 
wrong, or needs to pay any compensation to Mrs T.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Age Partnership Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman