DRN-2956280
The complaint
Mr B disputes the money Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as 
Audi Financial Services, say he owes them after his finance agreement for a car was 
terminated.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr B, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
VWFS have explained that by March 2020 Mr B was four months in arrears on his 
agreement. Theyve provided copies of the arrears letters that were sent each month. The 
letter sent to Mr B in March explained that if arrears werent cleared the contract would be 
terminated.
Ive not seen evidence to suggest Mr B contacted VWFS to explain his financial difficulties 
until April 2020, after the contract had been terminated. I therefore dont think VWFS were 
unreasonable when terminating the contract in line with the terms and conditions of the hire 
purchase agreement, that said:
Missing payments could have severe consequences and make obtaining credit more
difficult. It may lead to us serving a default notice on you, on the expiry of which we may
terminate the agreement
Mr B hasnt sent any information to us to dispute VWFSs explanation of the arrears on the 
account or their calculation of the amount due to settle the account now that it has been 
terminated.
Ive therefore not found any reason to suggest VWFSs calculations are incorrect and I dont 
think theres evidence to suggest theyve done anything wrong. Theres no evidence that   
Mr B has been in contact with VWFS before April 2020 after the contract was terminated so 
it would seem that VWFSs actions were reasonable.
Mr B still has the car that he hasnt been paying for since March 2020. That car is 
depreciating in value all the time and I dont think its fair to delay matters further. On the 
evidence I have Im not asking VWFS to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman