DRN-3472697
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Link Financial Outsourcing Limited pursuing him for a debt and 
recording a default.
What happened
This complaint surrounds a credit card account that was sold to Link in 2015. It was sold to 
them as a non-defaulted account in an informal payment arrangement. Link chose to honour 
the existing arrangement. Mr M stopped making payments after December 2016, and the 
account defaulted in mid-2017.
Mr M says the original creditor already defaulted him around 2010 or so, so he disputes the 
2017 default. He also says he had a formal Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) and so 
this account should have been written off as part of that insolvency in December 2016, which 
is why he then stopped paying. Mr M was unable to provide any evidence of the IVA. The 
original creditor confirmed they had never defaulted the account.
Mr M also asked Link for some statutory documents. They were able to provide some 
documents, but not others. So Mr M has made arguments about the debts enforceability.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I should clarify that we are an informal alternative to the courts, and that we do not 
represent either side or get directed by either side. So I wont address things on a point-by-
point basis. I will instead focus on what I find to be the key points in this case. I understand 
that may not be what Mr M is hoping for. If Mr M would like his complaint to be looked at in 
the way that a court would, then he is able to reject my decision and take the case to court  
though Id always recommend getting qualified legal advice before any court action.
Link have provided the notice of assignment  where the original creditor confirmed theyd 
sold the account to Link, as well as Mr Ms signed credit agreement. I think that is enough to 
show that Link now own the account. Its not clear why Mr M would also like the deed of 
assignment, which is a private document between Link and the original lender. The deed 
would contain commercially sensitive information, but would not contain anything that Mr M 
needs to see, and Link were not required to give that document to him. So I think its 
reasonable that they havent.
Mr M explained that because the original lender stopped adding interest, it shows they must 
have defaulted him. And I can understand where this misconception has come from. But 
lenders are able to freeze interest and charges as part of an informal payment arrangement, 
without defaulting the account. Indeed, many customers go into such arrangements in order 
to specifically avoid a default. And so long as the customer keeps up with the arrangement  
as Mr M did until late 2016  then its normal not to register a default. Links records show 
that this account had not yet defaulted when it was sold to them. The original creditor have 
repeatedly confirmed that their records show the same. And there does not seem to be any 
evidence that the account defaulted any earlier than 2017. Then by mid-2017, there were 
enough missed payments for Link to register a default. So I think Links default was 
reasonable. And I think its fair that they are reporting it on Mr Ms credit file, as they are 
obligated to report such information and its been fewer than six years since the default date.
Links records also show that this account was not part of any insolvency or any formal 
arrangement to write it off, just an informal payment arrangement. And the original lender 
said it had never defaulted, let alone been part of an insolvency. Indeed, according to the 
official notice of assignment, Mr M was only in an informally agreed payment arrangement, 
and the original lender let him know that they could only guarantee Link would keep the 
arrangement for a minimum of six months, as after that Link might want to review things and 
agree a new payment arrangement instead. So the evidence all indicates that this account 
was part of an informal arrangement, and not an insolvency.
Meanwhile, I have not been provided with any evidence which actually substantiates that this 
account was in an IVA or any other formal arrangement to write off the balance. Mr M 
explained that he could no longer provide such evidence because of the time thats passed. 
But I can see that he also raised this issue with Link in January 2017 and they asked for 
evidence of the IVA back then, but he didnt provide it. This would have been just after the 
alleged IVA had ended, and so if this debt had been included then it would have been very 
easy for Mr M to evidence it at the time  indeed, he would have just been issued with his 
completion documents. Yet he did not provide any evidence at that time either.
So I have no evidence which shows or substantiates that this account was in any formal 
arrangement to be written off. Even when this was discussed at the time in 2017 and such 
evidence would have been straightforward to provide, Mr M did not provide any. On the 
other hand, Links records, the original lender, and the notice of assignment all say that this 
account was part of an informal payment arrangement and not a formal insolvency. So given 
the evidence at hand, I cannot fairly conclude that this account should have been written off.
Turning to the issue of enforceability, I acknowledge both Mr Ms and Links comments about 
this. As our investigator explained, whether or not the debt is legally enforceable is 
something for a court to decide  I dont have the power to determine that. And even if the 
debt is unenforceable, that would usually just mean that Link cant take certain legal 
enforcement action against Mr M like getting a CCJ. But whether its enforceable in court or 
not, the debt still exists, the balance remains outstanding, and Link can still ask Mr M for 
repayments. Per my findings above, this was a genuine account of Mr Ms. So I dont think 
its unreasonable for Link to pursue him for it.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint in this case.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman