DRN-4384649
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) blocked their account 
after they refused to give it any more details about a payment they wanted to make. 
Mr and Mrs T are also unhappy Nationwide demanded to know exactly what they were 
intending to with their funds. 
What happened
On 6 June 2023, Mr and Mrs T say they informed Nationwide they were sending a large sum 
into their account from another of their external accounts to pay a bill - and that Mr T would 
pick it up. On 7 June 2023, around £14,300 was transferred into Mr and Mrs Ts Nationwide 
account. 
Mr T went to a Nationwide branch the following day, and he was asked what the payment 
was for. Mr T said it was for a bill but refused to give any further information. Mr T was then 
asked the same question by the branch manager, and then an employee from Nationwides 
fraud team over the phone. On both occasions Mr T refused to give any further information 
other than reiterating that it was for a bill.   
Nationwide froze Mr and Mrs Ts account. Unhappy with Nationwides actions, Mr and Mrs T 
asked it to close the account and switch it to another provider. On 7 June 2022, Mr T was 
later sent an email from one of Nationwides fraud teams. It referenced a call earlier and said 
he would have to provide evidence of the use of the high value transaction attempted in one 
of its branches, and the reason for the withdrawal. 
Nationwide also explained that to protect Mr and Mrs Ts money, it has placed a temporary 
block onto the account. And while the block is in place, Mr and Mrs T may not be able to use 
their card, online banking, or mobile banking. Mr T replied that the transaction related to a 
bill. 
Unhappy with Nationwides actions, Mr and Mrs T complained. Nationwide didnt uphold 
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. In short, it said: 
- It has a duty of care and legal obligation to ask reason for a transaction to ensure 
Mr and Mrs Ts funds are secure and legitimate 
- Its meeting its legal and regulatory obligations in blocking the account, and cant give 
a timescale as to when theyll be lifted 
- It has acted in line with its terms and conditions of account in applying the blocks 
Mr and Mrs T referred their complaint to this service. On 7 July 2023, they were able to 
withdraw all their funds from the Nationwide account. 
One of our Investigator then looked into Mr and Mrs Ts complaint, and they concluded 
Nationwide had not done anything wrong. In summary, their key findings were: 
- Nationwide asked Mr and Mrs T for more of a detailed explanation for what they 
intended to use the funds for, as well as documentation to support the withdrawal. 
Because of the large amount Mr and Mrs T were asking to withdraw, they thought 
this was appropriate in the circumstances
- Its likely that had Mr and Mrs T engaged with Nationwide by providing what it had 
asked for, theres the likelihood they wouldve satisfied its enquiries and the funds 
released
- Nationwides terms of account allow it to stop all specific withdrawals on the account. 
Nationwide had to be satisfied Mr and Mrs T werent the victims of a scam, or that the 
funds were being used for fraudulent purposes 
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree with what our Investigator said. 
They say that not only was the £14,300 frozen but also the money they needed to live on. 
And if they didnt have money elsewhere, they would have been left destitute. Nor has 
enough weight been put on the fact that Mr T called Nationwide the day before to advise 
them he was transferring the £14,300 into their account from another one of their external 
accounts. 
As Mr and Mrs T dont agree, their complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint 
Mr and Mrs T, so Ill explain why. 
Financial businesses in the UK, like Nationwide, are strictly regulated and must take certain 
actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry 
out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means they 
need to restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts. 
These obligations generally cover the entire period of its customer relationship  from 
application to eventually the end of the relationship. This includes Know Your Customer 
(KYC) checks and/or Customer Due Diligence (CDD). Its worth noting these checks include 
not just the verification of a customers identity, but also establishing the purpose and 
intended nature of the business relationship and origin of funds.
It's also worth noting, that regulated financial businesses are also under a duty to ensure 
they take reasonable steps to protect its customers from financial harm. Examples of such 
harm include being scammed. 
Mr and Mrs T sent a large sum into their account, and I note from their statements that this is 
somewhat out of character with their normal financial activity. I also note Mr and Mrs T say 
that they advised Nationwide a day prior to the transfer that they were doing this, but that 
isnt the same as informing them of its purpose and origin. Id also add that withdrawing the 
funds as soon as they were transferred is also an activity that reasonably may have led to 
Nationwide carrying out these checks to ensure the funds were legitimate and Mr and Mrs T 
werent being defrauded and/or scammed. 
Mr and Mrs T refused to give any answer beyond saying it was for a bill. Having carefully 
considered whats happened here, Im persuaded Nationwide has acted in line with its obligations, terms of account and fairly when asking Mr and Mrs T for this information. And 
later blocking the account. 
I say that because Nationwide has legal and regulatory obligations, as referenced above, to 
meet and by Mr and Mrs T refusing to give it this information it couldnt do so. Mr and Mrs T 
were given fair opportunity to give this information. I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs T find 
Nationwides enquiry intrusive. But by not meeting its regulatory and legal obligations, 
Nationwide could face serious consequences. 
Id also say in passing, that some of these obligations ensure customers, like Mr and Mrs T, 
are safeguarded from suffering financial harm. 
Mr and Mrs T say that Nationwide blocking their account couldve left them destitute had 
they not had access to other funds. I think this is a fair point, as ordinarily Id expect them to 
be given access to any salary, benefits or pensions that come into the account. I note 
Mr and Mrs T were paid payments by the DWP.
But as Mr and Mrs T say they did have access to other funds, I dont see any basis for 
making any form of award here given there isnt any detriment. I also note that Nationwide 
allowed Mr and Mrs T to close and withdraw funds from the account around a month later in 
July 2023.  
As I dont think Nationwide did anything wrong or caused Mr and Mrs T detriment in relation 
to blocking all their funds, I see no basis to make a compensation award for any distress or 
inconvenience its actions may have caused.  
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman