DRN-2888202
The complaint
Mr H complains about poor customer service provided by British Gas Insurance Ltd (BGI),
and in particular that:
it failed to make proper allowance for disabilities from which he suffers when 
arranging visits under his home emergency insurance policy; and
it pursued him for payment for services it provided which were included free of 
charge in his policy.
  
What happened
Mr H has had a home emergency insurance policy with BGI for many years. He has
previously made it aware of medical illnesses and disabilities that he suffers from, in
particular deafness, poor eyesight and claustrophobia, and has supplied BGI with medical
confirmation of this.
Mr H lives alone, and has made BGI aware that his disabilities mean that the standard four
hour time slot that it offers for visits by its engineers isnt suitable for him, as he doesnt hear
the doorbell ring, and he cant sit waiting by the window looking out for the engineer for more
than two hours at the most.
Mr H says that in previous years, BGI has made adjustments for him by offering him the first
appointment of the day, or a time slot of no more than two hours. However, by November
2019 BGI had ceased to offer this. Mr H had problems with his central heating which took a
number of visits, and failed visits, to fix. He complained to BGI about this, and its failure to
offer him appointments appropriate to his needs.
In January 2020 BGI sent Mr H a bill for £751.44 for work which he believed should have
been done free of charge under the terms of his policy. He pointed this out to BGI, but it
continued to press him for payment, and to threaten him with debt collectors and legal
proceedings.
This caused him worry and distress, which was exacerbated by his medical conditions. He
had to spend some time trying to resolve the issue. Eventually after some four months he
received a letter from BGIs solicitor which confirmed the invoice was raised in error, and
apologised for any inconvenience.
In June 2020, Mr Hs daughter got involved and contacted BGI to try to resolve the various
outstanding issues. As a result, BGI paid Mr H compensation totalling £250 to apologise for
the inconvenience and impact caused by the multiple callouts, engineer behaviour and
rescheduled or missed appointments.
In November 2020, BGI acknowledged that two issues remained outstanding:
Mr H said outside security lights were malfunctioning. BGIs engineers had 
attended on several occasions but hadnt resolved this. BGI said it was willing 
to send an electrician to look at this; and
Mr Hs daughter wanted BGI to give Mr H an assurance that for any future 
appointments he would be given either a fixed appointment, or the very first 
appointment of the day. BGI said it couldnt guarantee this.
Its engineers could be required to attend emergency issues, or be held up on 
previous complex jobs. They might have to travel some distance to 
appointments. That was why it could only offer four hour time slots. In less 
busy times of the year it could try to cater for a two hour time slot, but this 
might not always be possible.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He thought BGI had
addressed and dealt with the outstanding issues Mr Hs daughter had raised, apart from the
two outstanding points mentioned above.
On the security lights, he thought the offer of a further visit to assess the problem was
reasonable. On the timing of appointments, he didnt think BGI wasnt taking Mr Hs
condition or needs seriously; but he also didnt think it was being unreasonable in not
offering the first appointment of the day, or confirming an exact appointment time.
Mr H responded to say, in summary, that:
the problem with the security lights still persisted. The lights would come on randomly 
of their own volition, and once on would stay on even though the timed period had 
elapsed. BGIs engineers had attended several times without being able to identify 
any fault, and he wasnt confident that they would be able to identify what was wrong 
and correct it;
the compensation he had accepted didnt in his view cover BGIs charging him for 
work covered by his policy and threatening him with debt collectors and legal 
proceedings for some four months. Even if the work had been chargeable, it would 
have been wrong of BGI, as it had acknowledged, to start on, and carry out, the work 
without the customers consent to carry out chargeable work, which it didnt have; 
and
he wanted BGI to confirm that for any visits required under his policy it would arrange 
these as the first appointment of the day, even if this meant that there would be some 
delay before an appointment was available, as this was apparently the only 
appointment that could be made for a fixed time.
He pointed out that BGI had been able to do this for some years in the past. Until BGI 
was able to do this again, he didnt feel able to arrange the annual service he was 
entitled to under his policy.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision to Mr H and to BGI on 6 May 2021. In it I said I didnt think 
BGI had done enough to fulfil its obligations to Mr H under his policy, and to compensate him 
for the effect its actions had had on him. I said I thought it should take the following actions 
in respect of the issues Mr H had said were outstanding:1. The security lights
BGI had made several attempts through several engineers to identify and fix what seemed to
be an intermittent fault with the security lights. In responding to Mr Hs daughter about this
BGI said:
I have spoken with both engineer that have attended for the recent issue with the lights. The
initial engineer did not have ladders to fully assess the job but going off what your father had
advised was wrong with the lights, he thought it be best to get the lights replaced again.
In spite of this engineers view, BGI then went on to make several attempts to identify and fix
the fault. It had now offered to send an electrician to again assess the problem.
I said it was clearly in the interests of both BGI and Mr H to minimise the number of visits 
required to fulfil BGIs policy obligations. In the circumstances I thought BGI should arrange 
to attend and replace the security lights as the initial engineer suggested.
2. Compensation for wrongly charging Mr H
I asked BGI if the compensation it paid Mr H was intended to cover the effect this incident
had on Mr H. It said it was. However, the wording it used when paying this compensation,
which I quoted above, didnt refer to the incident, and Mr H clearly didnt believe it was
included when he accepted the compensation.
I said it was wrong of BGI to attempt to charge Mr H, both because the work was covered by 
his policy, and because it hadnt warned him it intended to charge, and didnt obtain his
agreement, before carrying out the work. It had taken BGI some time to acknowledge its 
error, in spite of Mr H pointing this out.
I pointed out Mr H was elderly and suffered from medical issues, which BGI was aware of. I 
accepted that the incident worried Mr H and caused him distress and inconvenience before it 
was resolved. I didnt think this was adequately reflected in the compensation of £250 BGI 
had paid him so far. So I thought BGI should pay Mr H a further £250 as compensation for 
this incident.
3. Appointments for future visits
I noted that BGI had been made aware of Mr Hs disabilities and the severe difficulties these 
caused him in dealing with BGIs usual appointment arrangements. BGI had explained why it 
was reluctant to assure him of the first appointment of the day. It said it needed to be able to 
allot these in case of emergency to protect other vulnerable customers.
In deciding whether BGI had acted fairly and reasonably in relation to Mr H, I said I had to 
take into account, amongst other things, relevant law including in this case the Equality Act 
2010. It was clear that Mr H was suffering from a disability for the purposes of that Act. This 
meant that BGI needed to be able to show that its treatment of Mr H was a proportionate 
means of achieving a legitimate aim.
It wasnt our role to say whether BGI had acted unlawfully or not in its treatment of Mr H 
That was a matter for the courts. However, I needed to take account of the Acts provisions 
in deciding what was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accepted that in deciding what it could offer Mr H, BGI had acted with good intentions.
However, I didnt think it was sufficiently recognising, and making allowances for, Mr Hsvulnerability. I thought the number of customers BGI had with this combination of disabilities 
must be very few.
I thought that an organisation of BGIs size and resources should be capable of organising 
its business so as to be able to guarantee Mr H a first appointment of the day if arranged
sufficiently well in advance, and it was fair and reasonable that it should do so. I thought this 
was particularly the case as, according to Mr H, it had done so in the past.
To ensure this happened, I thought BGI should make sure Mr Hs records with BGI were 
marked so that anyone making an appointment for a visit to him was aware of his 
vulnerability and that he needed to be offered a first appointment of the day.
Subject to any further comments and evidence I received from either BGI or from Mr H by    
5 June 2021, I said I intended to order British Gas Insurance Ltd to:
1. arrange with Mr H to attend and replace the security lights on his house at its 
expense and in accordance with the policy terms;
2. pay Mr H a further £250 as compensation for wrongly seeking to charge him for work 
in addition to the compensation of £250 BGI had paid him so far; and
3. ensure that for all future appointments it made under Mr Hs policy BGI offered Mr H 
a first appointment of the day if arranged reasonably well in advance, and that Mr Hs 
records with BGI were marked to make sure this happened.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither Mr H nor BGI has provided any response to my provisional decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr H nor BGI has provided any fresh information or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision, I find no reason to depart from my earlier conclusions.   
Putting things right
To put things right, I think BGI should take the steps, and pay the money, as set out in my 
final decision below. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order British Gas Insurance Limited to:
1. arrange with Mr H to attend and replace the security lights on his house at its 
expense and in accordance with the policy terms;
2. pay Mr H a further £250 as compensation for wrongly seeking to charge him for work 
in addition to the compensation of £250 BGI has paid him so far; and
3. ensure that for all future appointments it makes under Mr Hs policy BGI offers Mr H a 
first appointment of the day if arranged reasonably well in advance, and that Mr Hs 
records with BGI are marked to make sure this happens.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman