DRN-4453775
The complaint
Mr T complains Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) gave him misleading 
communications about the Lifestyle investment. He said Aviva led him to believe his pension 
wasnt being invested in risky funds, but he feels it is. He says if had known of the 
investment risk of the funds he has taken the low-risk option at a much earlier time. He asks 
to be compensated.
What happened
The background to this complaint was summarised in our investigators view, it is not in 
dispute and so I repeat it here:
In 2007, Mr Ts employer set up a group personal pension plan. The pension is a 
stakeholder pension with a selected retirement age of 65. The pension included a seven-
year Lifestyle investment programme selected by Mr Ts employer. The initial fund invested 
in was the Balanced Index Enhanced Fund of Funds.
In November 2012, the investment fund was replaced by the Newton Balanced Fund (the 
Newton Balanced Fund was replaced by the BNY Mellon Multi-Asset Balanced Fund in 
2019).
Mr T joined the group personal pension plan in 2013.
In September 2015, Mr T started the seven-year Lifestyle investment programme.
In 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022, Aviva wrote to Mr T with his annual pension review.
On 28 July 2022, Mr T was sent a retirement notification letter and he changed his 
retirement age in August 2022 from 55 to 56. Aviva confirmed the change by letter. As a 
result, the Lifestyle investment programme was rebalanced. It moved back to having 2% in 
the BNY Mellon Multi-Asset Balanced fund. It went to 1% on 21 August 2022 and back to 0% 
on the 21 September 2022.
In March 2023, Mr T complained to Aviva as his pension value had fallen.
On 23 May 2023, Aviva responded and did not uphold Mr Ts complaint. In summary, it said 
the Lifestyle investment programme was chosen by employer and this programme de-risked 
the pension in the seven years leading up to retirement. Aviva said that the programme had 
worked as it should and was applied correctly. It explained whilst Aviva is responsible for 
administering your plan (the annual management charge is for the set up and running of the 
plan) it isnt responsible for the investment fund choices. 
Dissatisfied with Avivas response Mr T brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr T. After careful consideration he issued a view 
explaining that Mr Ts pension value had fallen for a number of reasons, but he didnt agree 
that Aviva had mismanaged the fund or that it had acted unfairly.
Mr T disagreed. He remains of the view that Aviva have failed to manage his investments as 
he understood they would. He feels the communication from Aviva led him to believe his 
investment was safe. Further when Aviva knew the markets were falling it should have 
reviewed his investment and offered him the option to move his funds.
Mr T asked for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint. I realise this will be very disappointing to 
Mr T, but Ill explain my reasons.
Its not disputed that at the start of Mr Ts pension, a lifestyle approach was chosen. These 
are used to manage investment risks as a customers retirement age approaches. Over a 
number of years, they gradually move investments out of equity type assets and into cash 
and fixed interest assets, such as gilts  because, generally speaking, investments like this 
are less volatile and lower risk over the long term than equity assets.
The choice to invest in the Av Pre-retirement Fixed Interest and the Cash fund over the last 
two years prior to retirement would effectively have been Mr Ts employer's and not Avivas. 
It would have agreed to the Lifestyle investment programme for its employees.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that Aviva invested Mr Ts pension in line with the 
lifestyle approach he chose in 2012. As thats not in dispute, I dont need to consider it 
further. Instead, Ill focus on the crux of Mr Ts complaint - that Aviva invested his pension in 
higher risk funds than it should have under the lifestyle approach. 
Mr T says Aviva told him that his pension would be invested in low risk funds as he 
approached retirement. Indeed, he monitored the funds and discovered that 75% were in a 
risk rating 4 funds and 25% in risk rating 1 (out of 7). In his view he feels 75% were in higher 
risk rather than lower risk and believes Aviva should have made him aware of this.
Its probably important to explain that low risk is not the same as no risk. As I say, the 
lifestyle approach is used to manage investment risks as a customers chosen retirement 
age approaches. But even then, risk is not eliminated. Fixed interest investments are 
generally considered low risk but in certain situations, fixed interest investments can fall in 
value sharply. Unforeseeable global events meant that the value of gilts fell, and 75% of Mr 
Ts pension fund was invested in gilts in line with his chosen lifestyle approach. So, Im 
satisfied that the fall in value Mr T unfortunately suffered wasnt due to any error by Aviva. 
The fund appears to have achieved similar returns to the appropriate benchmark indices, 
indicating it didnt perform any worse than comparable funds.
But, even leaving this aside, Aviva isnt responsible for monitoring its risk ratings on Mr Ts 
behalf and warning him about changes, as Mr T suggests. Aviva is responsible for 
administering Mr Ts pension in line with his chosen approach. It is for Mr T, or his 
employers adviser, to monitor his investments to make sure they are suitable for the for the 
target it was originally designed for and if its no longer viable, to seek to change the 
programme.
Im also persuaded that Aviva took reasonable steps to draw Mr Ts attention to this, as I can 
see the annual statements Aviva sent to Mr C in 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022 made clear:
His pension fund value wasnt guaranteed and could still go down as well as up.
Mr T could read about his funds and their performance using the link provided to the 
Aviva website.Which funds Mr Ts pension was invested in, and that he should review these fund 
choices regularly to check they were still right for him, as how his money was 
invested could make a big difference to his final pension pot.
Aviva offered many different funds to choose from, with different levels of risk and 
reward, and Mr T could explore these online using the link provided. 
Mr T should speak to a financial adviser if he was in doubt about whether the funds 
remained suitable for him or if any changes may be needed and gave details of how 
to find one.
In summary then, I dont think Aviva has made an error or treated Mr T unfairly. It was for Mr 
T to check his pension investments were suitable for his requirements and he could have 
switched his funds if he thought that suited his particular circumstances at that time.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint. and I make no award
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman