DRN-2447314
The complaint
Mr W complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo 
Finance Limited (MFL) wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants the cost of the repairs he 
had carried out to be refunded.
What happened
 Mr W entered a hire purchase agreement in September 2019 to acquire a used car. At the 
time of the acquisition, the car was around four years old and had been driven nearly 40,000 
miles. Mr W told us:
hes had a number of issues and faults with the car  the first one occurred on the 
day he collected the car from the dealership when he had to get the front discs and 
pads replaced due to a worrying noise;
later that month he reported that the car was running unevenly and juddering, and a 
service light was illuminated. The dealership investigated the matter and had to 
replace the spark plugs;
within two months he had to take the car back to the dealership because of some 
unusual noises and the dealership had to arrange for a third-party garage to replace 
the clutch;
the car has been burning oil to the extent he was convinced he had an oil leak and 
the following month he arranged to have this investigated as recommended by the 
dealership  but no oil leaks were discovered;
six months later the clutch failed again and had to be replaced and he also had to 
pay the cost of replacing the dual mass flywheel;
this replacement clutch also failed, and the car was recovered by a third party 
because the car couldnt be driven. The third party identified a cracked engine block 
as the cause.
Mr W says the engine failed within 12 months of him acquiring it and the car had been driven 
less than 8,000 miles at this point. He told us he needs this car because of his familys 
circumstances and thats why he paid nearly £4,000 to have the engine replaced himself. 
And he says that although he was still paying for the car under the hire purchase agreement, 
he wasnt able to use it for nearly three months whilst it was being repaired. He wants MFL 
to reimburse him his costs.
MFL rejected this complaint. It says Mr W bought the car in September 2019 and it had 
passed an MOT with no advisories less than three weeks earlier. It says it instructed a third 
party to inspect the car and on the basis of its report it didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint.
MFL said the faults were not present or developing at the point of sale and it had no 
evidence to suggest that the need to replace the engine was a result of the failed repairs 
completed by the dealership. MFL said it was satisfied that the cars condition was a result of 
wear and tear.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he thought it should be upheld. He 
explained that he didnt think the car was durable given the engine failed at just over 47,000 
miles. And he didnt think it was fair that Mr W had taken out a hire purchase agreement for 
£8,000 when he acquired the car and had then had to spend more than £5,000 on repairs in 
the following few months.
Our investigator explained to both parties that under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, Mr W 
couldve rejected the car after the first failed clutch repair  something that Mr W wasnt 
aware he couldve done. And he thought the fact the clutch needed replacing on two further 
occasions over the next few months indicated that the car wasnt durable.
Mr W confirmed that although he didnt know he couldve rejected the car, now that hed paid 
for a brand, new engine, he wanted to keep it and be refunded for his considerable costs. 
Because of this, our investigator asked MFL to refund to Mr W his confirmed repair costs; 
refund three monthly instalments from his finance agreement in recognition of the fact he 
hadnt been able to use the car; and pay Mr W a further £200 to compensate him for the 
distress and inconvenience hed experienced.
MFL disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mr W is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. MFL is also the supplier 
of the goods under this type of agreement, and it is responsible for a complaint about their 
quality.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. This says 
under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  MFL in this case  has a responsibility to 
make sure the goods were of satisfactory quality.
Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect  taking into account any 
relevant factors. The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their 
general state and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and 
finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods. In this case, I would consider relevant factors to include, amongst others, the cars 
age, price, description and mileage.
What I need to consider in this case is whether the car supplied to Mr W was of satisfactory 
quality or not. And having considered this very carefully I, like our investigator, dont think it 
was. I say this because one of the considerations for whether something is of satisfactory 
quality is whether or not the item in question has proven to be suitably durable.
Neither party disputes that Mr W has experienced a catalogue of problems with the car; the 
first of which was on the very day he collected it from the dealership. And Ive seen notes; 
records; receipts and mobile phone screenshots detailing the issues he experienced with the 
vehicle and the repairs he had to arrange and the resultant costs of those repairs.
And in this particular case the car wasnt particularly old  it was around four years old when 
Mr W acquired it. And it hadnt been excessively driven; by the time the engine failed 
completely and needed replacing  after a long list of other problems  the car had only 
been driven around 8,000 miles. And I dont think a reasonable person would expect this to 
happen so quickly and after relatively little usage. And were it to happen, as it did in this case, I dont think a reasonable person would consider such a car to be durable and 
therefore of satisfactory quality. This is because the car had been driven less than 40,000 
miles at the point of supply and I dont think its reasonable to conclude that the catalogue of 
issues and problems experienced with this car are all down to wear and tear.
Mr W had to pay a significant sum of money, relative to the cars sale price, in order to have 
the engine replaced. And Im mindful of the other repairs that were undertaken  multiple 
clutch replacements, dual mass flywheel replacement; spark plug replacements  the costs 
of which were covered by a warranty. And although covered by a warranty, so Mr W incurred 
no direct expense for these repairs, I think this further supports my finding that the car wasnt 
suitably durable at the point of supply.
In view of the faults and problems experienced with this car from the outset and the fact that 
some of the initial repairs failed to remedy the issue, Mr W wouldve been within his rights to 
reject the car. Understandably, having paid nearly £4,000 to replace the engine, Mr W wants 
to keep the car and has asked instead that MFL cover the costs of the engine repairs hes 
already paid for.
Mr W also says he wasnt given a courtesy car when his own car was being repaired. And he 
says he should be refunded some of the monthly payments he made towards his finance 
agreement because he was paying for a vehicle but had no use of it.
Im satisfied this is both fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
MotoNovo Finance Limited should compensate Mr W for the cost of repairs and refund the 
repayments that he made under the hire purchase agreement for a car that, for a period of 
time, could not be driven.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint. And I direct MotoNovo Finance Limited to:
Pay Mr Ws repair costs, adding 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement;
refund to Mr W the three monthly repayments he made towards his hire purchase 
agreement whilst he had no use of his vehicle, adding 8% simple interest from the date 
of each repayment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr W £200 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience he experienced; 
remove any adverse reports or marks from Mr Ws credit file in relation to this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman