DRN-2898598
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc has refused their claim for a cancelled 
trip under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E have travel insurance as a benefit with a bank account. In June 2019 they 
booked a trip to Asia as part of a group - this trip included a tour of a destination which Ill 
call X, with accommodation and transfers as part of the package. They were due to leave 
the UK at the end of March 2020.
On 2 March 2020, Mr and Mrs E, along with the rest of their group, made the decision to 
cancel their trip as a result of the coronavirus outbreak. They have said this was following 
contact from the tour company regarding the likelihood of the tour going ahead. They 
received a full refund of their flights and but only received 60% of the tour costs back. Mr and 
Mrs E made a claim to AXA for the remaining 40% of the tour costs.
AXA declined their claim. It said the policy only provided cover in this situation if, at the time 
of the cancellation, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) had advised against travel 
to the area. AXA said there was no advice not to travel in place at the time they cancelled.
 
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr and Mrs E complained to AXA and brought their complaint to 
this service. Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
that as there wasnt any advice not to travel at the time when Mr and Mrs E cancelled their 
trip, the policy didnt provide cover. And he also found that, even if there had been the 
relevant FCO advice in place at the time of the cancellation, the policy excluded such claims 
if they were relating to package trips. So, he didnt think AXA needed to do anything further.
Mr and Mrs E disagreed with our investigator. They said they were placed under duress by 
the tour company to cancel the tour and were given a deadline in which to make that 
decision. They said as most of the group were over 70 years they didnt want to risk being 
stranded and potentially falling ill with Covid-19. Mr and Mrs E also said that they were the 
only two people from the group who have not had their claim settled by their insurer.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts for consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made 
in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr and Mrs E. Rather it reflects the informal 
nature of our service, its remit and my role in it.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
The policy Mr and Mrs E took out includes terms and conditions relating to the cover 
provided. The relevant parts are as follows:
Section A  Cancellation or curtailment charges and early return
What is covered
We will pay You up to £5,000 (inclusive of any valid claim payable under Section K  Ski 
pack and Section Q  Travel disruption cover) for any irrecoverable unused travel and 
accommodation costs (including excursions up to £250) and other pre-paid charges 
(including green fees of up to £75 per day, up to a maximum of £300) which You have paid 
or are contracted to pay together with any reasonable additional travel expenses incurred if:
a. cancellation of the Trip is necessary and unavoidable
as a result of any of the following events occurring:
7. A government directive prohibiting all travel to, or recommending evacuation from, the 
country or area You were planning to visit or were staying in provided such a directive came 
into force after You have left the United Kingdom.
Section Q  Travel disruption cover
What is covered
Before You reach Your destination
1.We will pay You up to £5,000 for Your unused travel, accommodation (including 
excursions up to £250) and other Pre-paid Charges that You cannot claim back from 
any other source if You cannot travel and have to cancel Your Trip as a result of:
c. The Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or other 
regulatory authority in a country to/from which You are travelling advising against all 
travel or all but essential travel to the country or specific area You are travelling to 
providing the advice came into force after You opened Your account or made Your travel 
arrangements for this Trip (whichever is the later) and was within 28 days of Your 
departure date;
What is not covered
13. Any costs if Your Trip was booked as part of a Package holiday except under:
b. subsection 1 for any costs relating to Pre-paid Charges which do not form part of 
Your Package holiday.
Mr and Mrs E have said they cancelled the trip when they were contacted by the tour 
company and offered a 60% refund as the tour was unlikely to go ahead as planned due to 
the threat of coronavirus. AXA has said that, at the time of cancelling the trip, there was no 
advice from the FCO restricting travel to the destination Mr and Mrs W were travelling to  
and it is for this reason it has declined the claim. So, what I need to consider is whether AXA 
acted fairly and reasonably, when refusing to meet Mr and Mrs Es claim.
Having looked at the relevant policy terms, it is clear that a claim for the cancellation of a trip 
is only provided for certain listed reasons. And one of those reasons is if you are unable to travel as a result of the FCO advice restricting travel. However, when Mr and Mrs E 
cancelled their trip there was no restriction in place for travel to X  this didnt come into 
force until approximately two weeks later. Taking this into account, I dont think it was unfair 
or unreasonable for AXA to decline the claim on that basis.
Mr and Mrs E have said that they didnt feel they had any choice but to cancel the tour and it 
was the tour company who recommended they do so. Even if the tour company 
recommended they cancel, although the information Ive seen doesnt seem to suggest this 
was the case, it doesnt mean that the claim is automatically covered  as I mentioned 
before there are a list of reasons for which a claim will be considered under this policy, and 
that scenario isnt one of those listed. 
And while I appreciate Mr and Mrs E cancelled the trip when they did due to the situation 
with the pandemic  Ive noted they told our investigator that, due to the age range of the 
individuals in the group they felt this was a risk - Im still not persuaded it would be fair and 
reasonable here to direct AXA to pay their claim. If Mr and Mrs E had waited until the FCO 
advice had changed, it is likely that their trip would have been cancelled by the tour company 
and they would have received a full refund under European regulations. This means they 
wouldnt have suffered any financial loss, and therefore they wouldnt have needed to make 
an insurance claim. So, by cancelling early it is possible they have disadvantaged AXA.
AXA has also made the point that, even if relevant travel restrictions had been in force at the 
time, they wouldnt have provided cover for the booked tour. It has referred to an exclusion in 
the policy for package trips cancelled as a result of the FCO advice. This is because, as Ive 
mentioned above, consumers who purchase package trips are protected by certain 
European regulations which come into force when a tour company is unable to fulfil the 
contract, entitling them to receive a full refund. Once again, Mr and Mrs E wouldnt have 
suffered a financial loss and so wouldnt have needed to claim against their policy with AXA. 
Mr and Mrs E have referred to claims made by other members of the group who cancelled 
for the same reason. They say their insurers have paid the claims. Mr and Mrs E say AXA 
should therefore also pay this claim. I do appreciate why Mr and Mrs E feel this should be 
taken into consideration. But it is important to note that complaints are considered on their 
own individual merits, based on the specific circumstances of that case as well as the 
specific wording of the policy which the consumer holds. The complaint made to this service 
relates to rejection of the claim they submitted for their cancelled trip and, based on the 
information and evidence supplied in relation to that claim and the terms and conditions of 
Mr and Mrs Es policy, I think AXA has acted fairly when making that decision. So, this 
doesnt alter my outcome.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman