DRN-3855164
The complaint
Mrs M complains that BISL Limited didnt automatically renew her motor insurance policy.
References to BISL include its agents. 
What happened
Mrs M had a motor insurance policy which was arranged and administered by BISL. 
In July 2022, Mrs M was stopped by the police, who said she didnt appear to have motor 
insurance. The police contacted her insurer who said Mrs Ms motor insurance had lapsed 
around a week earlier.
Mrs M says her car was impounded and she had to pay £150 to get it back. Her husband 
had to pick her and her dogs up to take them home. She was also fined £300 and six penalty 
points were placed on her drivers license.
Mrs M contacted BISL who said her policy had lapsed because she hadnt responded to an 
email it had sent in June, which asked her if she wanted to renew it. Mrs M thought the 
policy should have renewed automatically. She complained to BISL, but it said it hadnt 
identified any errors. So, Mrs M referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ms concerns but didnt think her complaint should be 
upheld. He was satisfied that BISL had done enough to let Mrs M know that the insurance 
wouldnt be automatically renewed. 
Mrs M disagreed with our investigators outcome. So, her complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
BISL was required to take reasonable steps to let Mrs M know that her insurance was going 
to end and give her enough time to make an informed decision about it.  
BISL says it uploaded a renewal invitation to its online portal on 10 June and it sent an email 
to Mrs M on 11 June 2022. The email says: Your car insurance policy is due to renew on    
8 July 2022. To ensure that you continue to be covered you must call us on (telephone 
number) before your cover expires.
Mrs M has acknowledged receiving the renewal email. However, she says she didnt read it 
because she was unwell at the time. She says it was sent to a joint email she shares with 
her husband. When her husband told her there was an email about her insurance renewal, 
she said not to worry because she thought it would automatically renew.
Mrs M has commented that BISL didnt send her any reminders following the invitation to 
renew. We would expect a business to send more than one letter or email warning of the 
policy lapsing, although this could include one to say the policy was lapsing and one to say it 
had lapsed. 
BISL says it notified Mrs M that the policy had lapsed by email, text message and post on 8 
July 2022 and has sent us evidence to support this.  Mrs M has mentioned a mishap which 
meant that she didnt have a mobile phone from 9 to 14 July 2022. She might not have seen 
the correspondence from BISL notifying her that the policy had lapsed before being stopped 
by the police on 14 July. However, Im satisfied that BISL took sufficient steps to notify her 
that the policy had lapsed. 
Mrs M says she believes BISL were wrong in not automatically renewing her insurance and 
has referred to its terms and conditions. 
Under the heading Automatic Renewal it says:
For Your protection, We reserve the right to automatically renew this policy annually in 
conjunction with the underlying Motor Vehicle Insurance Policy. If We do not receive Your 
instructions to cancel the policy from the renewal date. We may, at Our option, renew Your 
policy. You will then be liable for any premiums that fall due. You may opt out of the 
automatic renewal process at any time by contacting Our Customer Services helpline shown 
in Your main Motor Vehicle Insurance Policy documents.
Mrs M says her policy automatically renewed in previous years. However, BISL says Mrs M 
initially took out the policy in September 2020 and phoned to make a change in July 2021. A 
new 12 month contract was agreed at that time, which lapsed on 8 July 2022. The 
documents BISL has provided, support what its told us. Mrs M might have taken out 
insurance in the past that automatically renewed. However, Im satisfied that this policy 
hadnt previously automatically renewed. 
BISLs terms and conditions dont say that the policy will automatically renew. They say BISL 
reserve(s) the right to automatically renew the policy and it may renew it. So, Im not 
persuaded that BISL has acted outside of its terms and conditions.
Theres also a section on Automatic renewal in the important information provided as part 
of BISLs welcome pack which says: Prior to renewal, We will use the details youve given 
Us to search our panel again for a renewal price. We will contact you before the end of your 
policy explaining what you need to do. We may automatically renew the policy where We are 
able to, using the payment method that you have provided Us within order to ensure you 
remain continuously covered
Again, BISL used the word may in regard to the automatic renewal. It also said it would 
contact Mrs M to let her know what she needed to do before the policy ended. So, Im not 
persuaded that BISL should have automatically renewed her policy, or that it misled Mrs M 
into believing that it would.
I appreciate finding that she didnt have insurance was distressing for Mrs M, who says her 
main concern was the points being added to her license. She says the police told her she 
could have these removed if BISL acknowledged that her insurance company had made an 
oversight by not automatically renewing her insurance.While I empathise with Mrs M, Im not persuaded BISL has made any errors or acted 
unfairly. Im satisfied that BISL took reasonable steps to let Mrs M know that her policy was 
going to end in good time, and that it had lapsed. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mrs M, but I dont require BISL to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman