DRN-3915336
The complaint
Ms J complains that Santander UK Plc didnt do enough to protect her from the loss of 
money to an investment scam.
What happened
Ms J has explained that in May 2021 she made a number of payments using her Santander 
debit card to Binance and Coinbase, which shes subsequently realised have ultimately been 
lost to a scammer. The seven payments totalled £5,257.
Ms J got in touch with Santander to report shed been scammed. Santander didnt reimburse 
her lost funds. Remaining unhappy, Ms J referred her complaint about Santander to our 
service. As our Investigator was unable to resolve the matter informally, the case has been 
passed to me for a decision.
I sent Ms J and Santander my provisional decision on 21 March 2023 explaining why I was 
minded to not uphold the complaint. Now that both parties have had the opportunity to 
respond, Im ready to explain my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms J has made detailed submissions in response to my provisional decision. Ive read and 
considered everything shes sent in, but I wont be responding in similar detail. If I dont 
mention a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy. It reflects the informal nature of our service. 
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint for materially the same reasons as explained in my 
provisional decision. Ive explained why again below, with further comment where I have 
deemed appropriate to address Ms Js response to my provisional decision.
Im sorry Ms J lost money to a scam but this doesnt automatically entitle her to a refund 
from Santander. It would only be fair for me to tell Santander to reimburse Ms J if I thought it 
reasonably ought to have prevented the payments or it unreasonably hindered recovery of 
the funds.
Prevention
Ive thought carefully and Im not persuaded I can say Santander reasonably ought to have 
been obliged to have prevented the payments. 
In response to my provisional decision Ms J has said that Santander didnt act in line with 
the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code  one of the more recent initiatives in 
response to the increasing amount of fraud and scams  which was introduced by the 
Lending Standards Board. However, the CRM code doesnt apply here. This is because the 
payments Ms J made were card payments, which are pull and not push payments (and to 
crypto accounts in her own name). 
Im satisfied Ms J authorised the relevant payments at the relevant time. Ms J has said that 
irrespective of the transactions being authorised by her, the Payment Service Regulations 
provide that the payer may withdraw their consent at any time. But Santander would 
generally be expected to process payments a customer authorises it to make. And under the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the account, Ms J is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance, in circumstances where she authorised the 
payments. 
That said, as a matter of good industry practice (including, as Ms J has pointed out, 
regulated firms requirement to act with due skill, care and diligence) Santander should 
have taken proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly sufficiently 
unusual or uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. 
However, there are many payments made by customers each day and its not realistic or 
reasonable to expect a bank to stop and check every payment instruction. Theres a balance 
to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and 
minimising disruption to legitimate payments. 
Ms J has said the FCA and Action Fraud published warnings about cryptocurrency scams in 
mid-2018, and there was information in the public domain that a bank like Santander ought 
to have been aware of about the very high risks associated with crypto trading, including 
many warnings of potential fraud. She says cryptocurrency scams had risen greatly in 
frequency by the time of her payments; and Santander should therefore have been on the 
lookout for scams like this. However, not all payments made to crypto exchanges are made 
as a result of a scam, so Im not satisfied this means in this case Santander ought to have 
automatically blocked the payments just because they were to crypto exchanges. But I agree 
that for the reasons mentioned, Santander ought to have attached a higher risk profile to the 
payments. I have borne this in mind in reaching my final decision (as I did in my provisional 
decision). 
Ill address the payments in turn and why Im not persuaded I can say Santander reasonably 
ought to have been obliged to have prevented them. 
Santanders records show the first two payments on 8 May 2021 for £70 and £100 (which 
were to Binance) were initially declined but then allowed through after automated contact. I 
understand this to mean its likely that on making these payment instructions, Santander 
sent Ms J text messages to confirm she was making the transactions. The type of authorised 
scam Ms J fell victim to was never going to be uncovered or prevented in this way. But given 
the size of these payments, and the balance Ive mentioned that needs to be struck, I cant 
reasonably say Santander ought to have been obliged to have done more than this. 
I appreciate that in response to my provisional decision Ms J has said that a month later (in 
June 2021, after all of Ms Js payments) Binance was banned by the FCA. But 
cryptocurrency is unregulated at present and was at the time of Ms Js payments. The FCA 
alert Ms J is referring to in June 2021 was that Binance wasnt permitted to undertake any 
regulated activities without the prior written consent of the FCA. It post-dated Ms Js 
payments. And given crypto was unregulated, this wouldnt have been a reason in this case 
for Santander to automatically block the payments. So whilst Ive already explained I think 
Santander ought to have placed a higher risk profile on Ms Js payments because they were 
to crypto exchanges, this point doesnt change my mind.The third payment was for £20 to Coinbase. Again, it was for a small amount in terms of 
fraud and scams detection. And I cant say it would be reasonable to say Santander ought to 
have been obliged to have prevented this payment.
The fourth payment was to Binance for a larger amount of £1,867. But this still was not 
sufficiently large or sufficiently unusual or suspicious for me to think Santanders systems 
ought reasonably to have been obliged to have been triggered. The payment was to a crypto 
exchange but, as Ive said, not all payments made to crypto exchanges are the result of a 
scam. So again, I dont think I can say this payment was sufficiently unusual or 
uncharacteristic to say Santander ought reasonably to have been obliged to intervene. 
Ms J has said Santander should have identified her payments as usual and intervened 
because she hadnt bought cryptocurrency before May 2021, nor did she have a history of 
making card transactions over £300 on average in the years prior to the scam. But as Ive 
explained, I dont think it would be fair to say Santander ought to have been obliged to have 
intervened just because the payments were to a crypto account. They should have attached 
a higher risk profile to them. And I agree this payment was for a larger amount that Ms J 
typically spent. But as Ive explained there is a balance to be struck. I need to be satisfied 
that the payment was sufficiently unusual. The size of the payment is relevant in deciding 
this. And here I dont think the payment was sufficiently large to say it was sufficiently 
unusual taking everything into account. 
Santanders records indicate that it did then call Ms J before allowing payment five through 
(but Ms J chose ultimately to proceed with this payment). Santander has said a recording of 
this call is no longer available to listen to, but that its notes from when it was available to 
listen to state that Ms J confirmed this £200 payment to Binance was genuine and that no 
one had told her to complete the transaction and she was making it of her own free choice. I 
dont know for sure what happened on this call. But again, in fraud detection terms, this 
payment just wasnt of the level or type where I could reasonably say Santander ought to 
have been obliged to have intervened or prevented the payment. So whilst I appreciate Ms J 
has said in response to my provisional decision that Santander did not warn her about the 
risk of being scammed, I cant reasonably say that it ought to have been obliged to.
The last two transactions, payments six and seven, were to Binance again, for £500 and 
£2,500, almost two weeks after payment five. Ive thought about these payments, including 
the fact that the £1,867 payment to Binance was around two weeks before, which I think was 
long enough previously such as not to have materially increased the risk profile Santander 
should have given these payments. I know Ms J will be disappointed. But bearing in mind 
the balance Ive mentioned that needs to be struck, I need to be realistic and fair about 
where its reasonable to say Santander ought to have been obliged to have intervened. And 
here, for the reasons Ive mentioned, Im not persuaded it reasonably ought to have been. 
This means Im not persuaded I can say Santander unreasonably missed an opportunity to 
prevent the payments. I appreciate Ms J has said in response to my provisional decision that 
the circumstances of her payments had all the hallmarks of a cryptocurrency scam. But 
given the timing of the payments, the amount they were for, and how they were spread out, I 
dont think it would be unfair for Santander to have viewed them as insufficiently unusual or 
suspicious to warrant the level of intervention and discussion which might have prevented 
the scam. So this doesnt change my mind. 
Ms J has explained why she thinks appropriate intervention from Santander would have 
prevented the payments and her loss. But as Ive concluded that Santander wasnt 
reasonably obliged to intervene or discuss the payments with Ms J, this also doesnt change 
my mind. Ms J has also made some further points. Shes referenced a different 
ombudsmans decision on a different case here. Shes said the Banking Protocol wasnt actioned. And shes said that she shouldnt be considered to have been contributorily 
negligent in this case because the scam was convincing. However, I must decide this case 
on its own individual merits. There will be cases that on their surface look similar but the 
outcome on a case should always be based on its individual facts. The decision Ms J has 
referenced involved larger payments and it doesnt persuade me to change my mind. And 
the Banking Protocol, which launched in 2018 and is an initiative between banks and the 
police, applies to payments made in branch, but Ms J didnt make her payments in branch; 
and as Ive said, Im not persuaded Santander ought reasonably to have been obliged to 
intervene in her payments. And contributory negligence would only be a consideration if I 
was upholding the complaint, so isnt a relevant consideration here.
Recovery
After the payments were made, I couldnt reasonably expect Santander to have done 
anything further until Ms J notified it of the scam. 
Ms J has said that Santander ought then to have prevented the onward movement on her 
funds. However, because these were debit card payments, the only potential avenue for 
recovery of the payments through Santander would have been via the chargeback scheme 
(and I note that even if the payments had been push payments and not card payments  
which they werent  Santander still wouldnt reasonably have been able to recover them 
given theyd already by then been moved on from Ms Js crypto accounts to the scammers). 
Ms J has said Santander made no attempt to recover her funds through the chargeback 
scheme but Im satisfied such a chargeback claim would have failed, and so declining to 
pursue a chargeback claim on Ms Js behalf where there were no reasonable prospects of 
success was neither an unfair nor unreasonable exercise of Santanders discretion in my 
view. 
This is because Ms J made the payments from her Santander debit card to Binance and 
Coinbase, legitimate crypto exchanges (and not directly to the scammers). This means the 
merchants here for chargeback purposes, would be Binance and Coinbase (and not the 
scammers). The crypto exchanges (Binance and Coinbase) legitimately provided the 
services intended. The subsequent transfer of the funds onto the scammers would not give 
rise to a valid chargeback claim through Santander. So I dont think these payments were 
recoverable through Santander once they had been made. 
I realise this means Ms J is out of pocket. And Im sorry she lost this money. But I cant 
reasonably ask Santander to reimburse her in circumstances where I dont think it ought 
reasonably to have prevented the payments or been able to recover them. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman