DRN-3380106
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Lloyds Bank PLC advised them the fee on their packaged bank 
account would be waived in future. However, it has now started to charge for the account. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have a Premier bank account with Lloyds. This is a packaged bank account 
which gives various banking and insurance benefits in return for a monthly fee. For many 
years Lloyds has waived this fee for customers who have kept more than a certain balance 
in their account each month. In October 2021, Lloyds wrote to Mr and Mrs C (and to other 
customers) to say that it was now ending this fee waiver. Instead, if Mr and Mrs C wished to 
continue with the packaged benefits, they would have to start paying the monthly fee. 
Mr C phoned the bank. A member of staff told him that, because they were such long-
standing customers, they would still benefit from the fee waiver. However, Mr C found that 
Lloyds started charging for the account anyway. 
When Mr C complained about this, Lloyds said he had been wrongly advised. It said that the 
fee waiver was ending for everyone. Because Mr C had been wrongly advised, Lloyds 
offered to waive three months of fees and also pay £50 in compensation. 
Mr and Mr C are unhappy with this. They say that Lloyds should continue to waive the fees 
in future. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Mr and Mrs C didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to packaged bank accounts. Ive kept that 
approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Up until the change, Lloyds was effectively recouping some or all the cost of providing the 
account, by ensuring customers kept a high-level balance in the account. This money was 
then available for Lloyds to use. 
As a commercial organisation Lloyds is generally entitled to change the way it charges for 
services. And Im satisfied its terms and conditions allow a change such as this one. 
A member of bank staff misadvised Mr C about future waivers, but this mistake doesnt 
bind the bank into having to follow that wrong advice. That advice doesnt override Lloyds 
ability to change the terms of the account. 
I think the compensation Lloyds has offered is adequate recompense for the mistake. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman