DRN-3948769
The complaint
Business 3 complains about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) handled a claim under a 
commercial and residential landlords insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties and largely not in 
dispute, so Ill only summarise them here.
This complaint is brought by Ms T a director of business 3.
3 is the registered freehold title owner of a property that is split into a number of flats. 
There was a flood in the ground floor flat causing damage and a claim was submitted 
by Ms T under a policy in the name of 3
Ms T lives in the ground floor flat and she and her partner had to move out of the 
property into alternative accommodation whilst repairs took place.
The claim progressed other than for the provision of alternative accommodation. 
AXA said it wouldnt pay for alternative accommodation as this cover was intended to 
provide the cost of reasonable alternative accommodation for Landlords tenants. 
And it said 3, and Ms T, are freeholders of the property, not tenants.
Ms T disagreed and said she paid ground rent to 3.
AXA maintained its position. It said Ms T owns the leasehold to the ground floor flat. 
And as owners of the flat they do not pay rent to a landlord.
Ms T remained unhappy and brought the complaint to this service on behalf of 3.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied Ms T, and her partner, 
were not tenants. She explained the purpose of the alternative accommodation 
section of the policy is to cover a landlord in paying the costs of rehousing a tenant 
during a claim.
Ms T asked that an ombudsman decide the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and largely for the same 
reasons.
Ms T has provided a detailed account of the complaint against AXA but I dont intend to 
respond in similar detail. If I dont mention a particular point or piece of evidence or 
testimony it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it  its just that I dont feel I need 
to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy; it is just a 
reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
There is no dispute a flood caused damage to the flat and having read about the nature of 
the flood I can image this was a very unpleasant experience. However, the issue I have to 
decide is whether AXA acted fairly and reasonably in declining the alternative 
accommodation element of the claim.
The policy has a number of sections including Buildings, Rental income, Property owners 
liability and Landlords contents. Under the Buildings section it sets out the alternative 
residential accommodation cover as:
We will pay you for costs of reasonable alternative accommodation for your tenants and 
temporary storage of your tenants furniture while the residential portion of the property 
cannot be lived in or access is denied as a result of damage. This cover will only apply 
where we have made a payment or accepted liability under the Buildings section of this 
policy. The most we will pay under this cover is 20% of the sum insured on the building 
that has been damaged for a maximum period of 24 months from the date of damage. 
Provided that this cover is not insured elsewhere.
Im satisfied its clear the alternative accommodation section is to reimburse a landlord for 
the costs incurred in providing alternative accommodation for a tenant if the tenant is unable 
to live in the property as a result of an insured event.
The policy doesnt define tenant, so Ive considered dictionary definitions and opinion from 
both parties. Dictionary definitions refer to tenants as a person who pays rent for the place 
they live in, and refer to landlords as a person rent is paid to in order to live in a building 
owned by the landlord. 
The insured is 3, a company owned by the owners of the flats in the building. The owners of 
the individual flats do not pay a monthly rental to 3 and there is no evidence of a rent book or 
an Assured Shorthold Tenancy Agreement. Im satisfied Ms T isnt a tenant and 3 isnt a 
landlord in the everyday language, and the policy isnt intended to provide alternative 
accommodation in this particular situation. In common language the directors are owners of 
the flats, not tenants, and the insured, 3 isnt a landlord. 
I note in Ms T submission there is reference to ground rent, whilst there is some 
disagreement as to whether a ground rent is still being paid Im more persuaded by AXAs 
view that any ground rent payable by the directors is paid as a leasehold owner of a 
property, not a rental charge. 
On balance Im satisfied AXA has acted reasonably in declining the alternative 
accommodation element of the claim in the circumstances of this case. And I wont be 
asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
For the reasons above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 3 and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman