DRN-4130245
The complaint
Mrs M, who is represented by a third party, says Studio Retail Limited (Studio Retail) 
irresponsibly lent to her. She has requested that the interest and late payment charges she 
paid on the account be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about a shopping account Studio Retail provided to Mrs M. The account 
was opened in November 2017 with a credit limit of £100. A credit limit increase to £200 
was applied to the account in September 2018. 
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint from the date of the credit limit increase. 
This was because of changes in Mrs Ms financial circumstances in the lead up to that 
increase. 
Studio Retail said it didnt agree as it said its own information suggested that Mrs M was 
managing her account reasonably well. The complaint has therefore been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Studio Retail needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mrs M could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These 
checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender like Studio Retail to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer 
irresponsibly.
Our investigator has set out why he thinks Studio Retail shouldnt have provided Mrs M with 
any further credit from September 2018 onwards, when Mrs Ms credit limit was increased 
from £100 to £200. Nonetheless in preparing this decision Ive looked at the overall pattern of 
Studio Retails lending history with Mrs M, based on the evidence and information provided 
by both Studio Retail and Mrs M, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which 
Studio Retail should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. If so, that would mean Studio Retail should have realised that it shouldnt 
have increased Mrs Ms credit limit.
Ive seen that Mrs M had some other borrowing in place at the time the account was 
opened. She was in a payment arrangement for one of her other credit accounts and 
had missed at least one credit payment in the previous five months. But I dont think it 
was necessarily unreasonable for Studio Retail to have approved the account. I say this 
taking into consideration that at that time Mrs M didnt have any ongoing defaults or 
other adverse issues such as a county court judgment recorded on her credit record. 
And Ive kept in mind that this was a modest opening credit limit with a low level of 
repayment.
Ive seen that Studio Retail granted Mrs M her first credit limit increase around ten months 
after opening the account. Although it was doubling the opening credit limit, I appreciate the 
new credit limit remained relatively modest. But going forward from the opening credit limit, 
given what it already knew about Mrs Ms financial circumstances at opening, I would have 
expected Studio Retail to carry out proportionate checks that included looking at Mrs Ms 
Studio Retail account management as well checking carefully how she was managing the 
credit she held elsewhere. Our Investigator noted that by September 2018 Mrs M had had 
seven delinquent credit accounts seven months previously and another account in arrears. 
Looking at the way shed been managing her Studio Retail account, she had already 
incurred three late payment charges without apparent explanation. I note she had also 
gone over her limit twice in the two months before the credit limit increase, albeit only by a 
small amount. 
Studio Retail has pointed out that the delinquent accounts were seven months old. Ive 
noted the figure for delinquent accounts had shown as three in May 2018  going up to 
seven in June 2018. This suggests that further delinquencies had happened more or less 
at the same time. I think this points to an issue about Mrs Ms being in full control of her 
own financial situation. Studio Retail has also suggested that the increased credit limit 
represented only a modest increase to what would be sustainable repayments. But I think 
this has to be looked at in the context of a consumer who had taken on a large number of 
credit accounts, all of which needed to be managed sustainably with regular payments, 
with evidence apparent that she could be getting into difficulty. 
I therefore agree with our investigator that taken together all these factors suggest a real 
possibility that Mrs Ms financial situation may have been deteriorating. So I agree that 
Studio Retail ought to have been prompted to carry out more enquiries in order that it could 
make a proportionate assessment before granting Mrs M any further credit, as modest as 
the increase was. Had it done so its likely it would have found that Mrs M was having 
difficulty with her Studio Retail account and her wider financial situation, to the extent that 
her total level of borrowing was at risk of becoming unsustainable.
To summarise, I consider that Studio Retails actions in increasing Mrs Ms credit limit from 
September 2018 had the effect of worsening her financial situation by likely making the 
account unaffordable and unsustainable going forward. So Studio Retail should put things 
right.Putting things right  what Studio Retail needs to do
Rework Mrs Ms account to ensure that from September 2018 onwards, 
interest is only charged on balances up to £100 (being the credit limit in place before 
that date), including any buy now pay later interest, to reflect the fact that no further 
credit limit increases should have been provided. All late payment and over limit fees 
should also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made Studio Retail should contact Mrs M to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan. Once Mrs M has repaid the outstanding balance, it should remove 
any adverse information recorded on her credit file from September 2018 onwards. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mrs M, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. Studio Retail 
should also remove any adverse information from Mrs Ms credit file from September 
2018 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Studio Retail to take off tax from this interest. Studio 
Retail must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Mrs Ms complaint. Studio Retail Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman