DRN-3428261
The complaint
Mr S  complains about issues with a car he acquired through  a fixed sum loan agreement 
and credit card deposit with Midland Mercantile Finance Ltd (MMFL) in July 2021.He would 
like to reject the car and receive a full refund for payments made.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so instead of repeating them 
again here I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
.
 MMFL accepted our investigators view that the car was not of satisfactory quality at 
the point of sale and that it should arrange for repairs. The issue for me to decide is if 
that is reasonable as Mr S would like to reject the car. He feels that MMFL have had 
multiple opportunities to repair the car 
I have seen no evidence of prior repairs. The only job cards I have seen relate to a 
replacement battery in May 2021 prior to Mr S getting the car, and replacement brake 
pads and sensors in July 2021. 
There is an automatic right to reject a car if there is a fault within the first thirty days 
of getting it. I have no evidence to show Mr S asked to reject the car when the issue 
with the brake pads and sensor arose. Though I am not entirely persuaded he would 
have had grounds to do so as I  consider these items wear and tear on a used car. 
However, it seems Mr S accepted these being replaced at no cost to himself. 
The email correspondence I have seen between Mr S and the business dates  from 
when Mr S raised the issue of a gearbox warning light and problem with the bonnet 
latch in September 2021. Whilst in this correspondence Mr S refers to the car being 
taken in three times  once for the brake issue and twice for the gearbox issue the 
latter being an issue  he says was identified before he got the car  the responses 
from MMFL dont confirm a pre-sale issue with the gearbox , or that any  repair work 
was done
From the information I have I understand the car was inspected in September 2021 
when a wiring loom issue with the gearbox was identified along with a problem with 
the bonnet latch. As these issues didnt prevent the car being used Mr S seems to 
have taken the car back pending arrival of parts needed for repair. Mr S  then says 
problems arose in October 2021 with the turbocharger and loss of power to the 
gearbox. MMFL arranged to collect the car in October 2021 to repair the wiring loom 
and bonnet latch and said it would investigate the other issues that had arisen and , if 
necessary, carry out further repairs. I think this was reasonable.
When issues arise within six months of getting a car, we usually say its the business 
responsibility to see if there is a point of sale issue and if so, we would usually expect 
a business to resolve any such issues. We also usually give a business at least one 
opportunity to make good any issues with repairs. I have no evidence that MMFL has 
already tried to repair the car so I dont think its solution to offer to repair the wiring 
loom and latch issues and to look and if necessary, repair the potential problems with 
the loss of power and turbocharger was unreasonable  
I appreciate Mr S has told us he has since bought another car as he needs one for 
work purposes although he hasnt evidenced this. I appreciate paying for two cars is 
not ideal but that was Mr Ss choice rather than to have repairs carried out. And I 
dont think Mr Ss choice to get another car is , in itself, a reason for me to say  
MMFL shouldnt have the opportunity to repair the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Midland Mercantile Finance Ltd should :-
Collect the car from Mr S and arrange for, and cover the cost of the repairs to the 
gearbox and bonnet latch 
investigate the additional issues relating to the gearbox and turbocharger and repair 
if necessary 
pay Mr S £150 for any trouble and upset thats been caused due to the faulty goods
remove any  adverse information from Mr Ss  credit file in relation to this agreement, 
if applicable
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman