DRN-2825872
The complaint
Mr A complains that Ageas Insurance Limited mishandled his claim on a motor insurance
policy.
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute
resolution rules (DISP). One of those rules is that  before we can consider a complaint
against a financial firm  the consumer mustve made that complaint to the firm and given it
up to eight weeks to provide a final response.
The subject matter of this complaint is a vehicle that had first been registered in November
2011. Mr A owned that vehicle and, for the year from June 2019, he had it insured on a
comprehensive policy. The policy covered Mr A and - as a named driver - his partner. From
what hes said, they shared the vehicle, including to transport their young child.
Ageas was responsible for dealing with claims - subject to an excess of £200.00. Where I
refer to Ageas, I include claims-handlers, repairers and others insofar as I hold Ageas
responsible for their actions.
Unfortunately, Mr As partner was responsible for a low-speed impact with the rear of a taxi
in traffic in July 2019. Each vehicle remained driveable afterwards.
In early August 2019, Ageas took Mr As vehicle for repair and arranged a loan car.
However, about a week later, Ageas said his vehicle was beyond economic repair - a total
loss. So Ageas wouldnt repair Mr As vehicle. And Mr A had to give back the loan car.
In early February 2020, Mr A complained to Ageas. By a final response dated 10 February
2020, Ageas summarised the complaint as follows:
Your complaint related to the repair costs of your vehicle, and that these resulted in
your vehicle being written off
The final response turned down that complaint. Mr A brought his complaint to us on 26
March 2020. His complaint form included a complaint that Ageas had paid him less than his
vehicles market price  by £1,400.00.
Ageas sent us its file on the complaint. It said Mr A hadnt previously complained to Ageas
about the valuation of the vehicle. 
our investigators opinion
Our investigator dealt with the complaint as a complaint about the estimated costs of repair 
of the vehicle.
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that
Ageas - not unreasonably - asked for the car to be stripped in order to determine the extent
of the damage caused. He thought that the repairer wouldve been able to differentiate
between damage which had occurred as a result of fair wear and tear, in comparison to
damage which happened due to the accident.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr A 
and to Ageas on 19 April 2021. I summarise my findings:
I considered that Mr A was mistaken in his view that Ageas asked about pre-accident 
damage so that it could add it to the repair costs to the point where they were 
uneconomic.
Subject to any further information from Mr A or from Ageas, my provisional decision was that 
I didnt uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Ageas Insurance Limited to do any 
more in response to this complaint.
Ageas says that it has nothing further to add that has not already been considered.
Mr A hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
So I see no reason to change my view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In addition to his responses to the investigators opinion, Ive looked at Mr As complaint
dated 26 March 2020 and the photographs hes provided.
Unfortunately, if Mr A wishes to complain about the pre-accident valuation, he will have to
raise that with Ageas and allow up to eight weeks for a final response before we can deal
with such a complaint.
From the photographs in early July 2019, I accept that there was accident damage to the
front of Mr As vehicle  but no visible damage to the headlights.
After Mr A made a claim, the policy entitled Ageas to decide whether it would repair his
vehicle. As an alternative, Ageas could treat the vehicle as a total loss and pay him its pre-
accident market value (less the excess)  when the damaged vehicle would become the
property of Ageas.
Theres no evidence that Ageas had to write the vehicle off on legal or safety grounds. So I
would expect Ageas to weigh up the pre-accident value against the cost of repairs.
I consider that Mr A had opportunity to remove personal items from the vehicle before
handing his car over to the repairer. I consider that - by handing it over - Mr A implicitly
consented to a vehicle assessment including partial disassembly.Ageas emailed its repairer as follows:
based on estimate and images vehicle will repair up to £3300, please strip vehicle
and confirm if any further damage.
I dont consider that this meant that the estimated cost of repair was £3,300.00. Rather I
consider that it meant that £3,300.00 was the limit beyond which repairs would be
uneconomic. I dont consider that Ageas was hoping to find further damage. Rather I
consider that Ageas wanted to know whether there was damage that would remain hidden
until the repairer stripped down the front of the vehicle.
The next day Ageas emailed its repairer as follows:
can you send any images of old damage you have around the vehicle?
I agree that old pre-accident damage wasnt the subject of the claim. Ageas didnt need to
consider paying to repair pre-accident damage. But pre-accident damage would affect the
pre-accident value of the vehicle. And Im satisfied that Ageas asked about pre-accident
damage in order to assess pre-accident value.
On 12 August 2019, Ageas received the report and images and decided the vehicle was a
total loss.
I wouldnt expect an insurer to send the policyholder the detailed repair estimate unless he
asked. And when Mr A asked, Ageas sent him the details.
They included a list of labour and parts including headlights. Whilst Ive found no visible
damage to the headlights, I see from the photographs in mid-August 2019 that someone had
put the headlights on the back seat. I consider that Mr A has fallen short of providing
evidence that the repairer was wrong to include the headlights as needing to be renewed as
a result of the accident.
The repair estimate of about £3,568.00 was a high percentage of the Ageas pre-accident
valuation. So I cant say that Ageas treated Mr A unfairly by deciding his vehicle was a total
loss.
I dont doubt that Mr A was disappointed that the repairer said it couldnt discuss the 
estimate with him - and said it would collect the loan car.
I have no reason to doubt Mr As statement that he wasted about £30.00 hed spent on 
refuelling the loan car. But Mr A hasnt provided any detail of exactly when he re-fuelled. And 
I think he took the risk that he wouldnt get to use all that fuel. So I dont find it fair and
reasonable to direct Ageas to compensate him for that.
I dont think it was realistic for Mr A to ask the repairer to re-assemble the front of the car so
that he would be able to drive it away. Mr A considered the repairer was rude to him. But he
hasnt given enough details for me to make a finding of rudeness.
From what Mr A has said, the purpose of his visit to the repairer was to collect belongings
that he couldve removed before. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to hold Ageas
responsible for his taxi fares of about £60.00 for that journey.
Mr A cancelled the policy. As hed made a claim, I wouldnt expect Ageas to refund any of
the premium hed paid for the year (but I wouldve expected Ageas to consider any request
to put a replacement car on the policy).Whilst Mr A was left without a car at short notice, I dont hold Ageas responsible for doing
anything wrong that caused that situation - or the inconvenience and distress. So I dont find
it fair and reasonable to direct Ageas to compensate Mr A for that.
I consider that Mr A is mistaken in his view that Ageas asked about pre-accident damage so
that it could add it to the repair costs to the point where they were uneconomic.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Ageas Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman