DRN-2570815
The complaint
Mr M complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) cancelled his motor insurance policy. He 
wants the cancellation removed. 
What happened
Mr M took out a policy with UKI and it asked him to provide proof of his No Claims Discount 
(NCD). UKI chased this and asked Mr M to pay an additional premium or else his policy 
would be cancelled. The proof Mr M sent to UKI showed that the old policy was cancelled 
after his new policy began, which UKI wouldnt accept. Mr M didnt provide the required proof 
or pay the additional premium in time and so the policy was cancelled. UKI paid Mr M £100 
compensation because it thought it could have responded to his calls better, but it wouldnt 
reinstate the policy. Mr M said his premium with another insurer was higher as a result.  
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought UKI 
had warned Mr M three times to provide his correct proof of NCD or pay an additional 
premium or else his policy would be cancelled. She didnt think there was any persuasive 
evidence of exceptional reasons why Mr M hadnt done this before the cancellation date. So 
she thought UKI had fairly and reasonably cancelled the policy.
Mr M replied that he didnt understand what UKI required. He said he thought the 
cancellation arose because hed acquired a new car a day before he disposed of his old car. 
He thought he hadnt been adequately warned that the policy would cancel. He thought the 
cancellation should be recorded as made by agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr M feels frustrated that he now has a policy cancellation that he 
must declare to future insurers. He says the problem arose because he had two cars on 
cover at the same time and UKI wouldnt accept his NCD in this circumstance. Instead, it 
asked for an additional premium which he thought was extortionate. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Mr Ms new policy with UKI was taken out online two weeks before his old policy expired. 
UKI has provided evidence of the online journey Mr M would have followed in buying the 
policy. I think he was clearly told that his NCD could only be used on one policy at a time. 
UKI asked Mr M for evidence of his NCD. 
Mr M didnt provide this and UKI sent three chasers to say that he should provide proof of his 
NCD or pay an additional premium to keep the policy active. So I think UKI reasonably 
warned Mr M that his policy may cancel unless he took action. 
Mr M sent in proof of his NCD after the third chaser, but this wasnt acceptable to UKI as it 
showed that his NCD was being used on two policies. As the policy journey states, NCD can 
only be used on one policy at a time. And I think it was reasonable for UKI to offer Mr M the 
alternative of paying an additional premium. 
UKI asked Mr M for further evidence of his NCD proof from his previous insurer. As nothing 
was heard from Mr M, UKI then sent Mr M 10 days notice of the cancellation of the policy. 
In the Cancellation by us section under General Conditions on page 28 of the policy 
booklet, its stated:
We have the right to cancel your policy at any time by giving you at least 7 days notice in 
writing where there is a valid reason for doing so.
We will send our cancellation letter to the latest address we have for you.
Valid reasons may include but are not limited to:
 where you are required in accordance with the terms of this policy, to co-operate with us, or 
send us information or documentation and you fail to do so in a way that substantially affects 
our ability to process your claim, or deal with your policy;
I think UKI followed its procedure as set out in its terms and conditions. I think it gave Mr M 
ample warning that he needed to provide correct proof of his NCD or else pay an additional 
premium. Mr M didnt contact UKI until after the cancellation date. I can understand from 
what hes told us that Mr M was busy and didnt prioritise UKIs requests and contact it 
earlier. But I cant say that UKI acted unfairly or unreasonably in cancelling the policy. 
UKI paid Mr M £100 compensation as it thought it should have returned a call and handled a 
call better. I think that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I dont require it to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman