DRN-2320598
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that AmTrust Europe Limited (AmTrust) incorrectly requested a 
termination fee and were unhappy with the terms and conditions of their home emergency 
policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs A had a joint utilities account with an energy provider. Attached to the account 
was a separate breakdown heating policy. In November 2019 they moved to another energy 
service provider and informed AmTrust of the transfer. That move transferred in December 
2019 and Mr and Mrs A cancelled the direct debit payments.
In January 2020, Mr and Mrs A found that £9.50 had been deducted from their bank 
account. They contacted the bank about this and were refunded. In February 2020 AmTrust 
wrote to Mr and Mrs A telling them that it had cancelled the breakdown policy and required a 
termination fee of £18.43. 
Mrs A called AmTrust who told her that the policy was in Mr As sole name and as she 
wasnt on the policy they were unable to speak to her. Mr A later called and told them that he 
had no knowledge of this policy as he had never used it or paid premiums for it. Also, that he 
had requested that all the accounts should be closed in December 2019. 
In its final response, AmTrust said that it had fully investigated their complaint and were 
satisfied that it had acted in accordance with the terms and conditions. Mr and Mrs A were 
not happy about AmTrusts response and referred their complaint to the service. Mr A said 
that he had no knowledge of this policy as he had never used it and he had never received 
any letters about it. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
concluded that AmTrust had fairly applied the terms and conditions of the policy and had 
given Mr and Mrs A notice about the policy.
Mr and Mrs A didnt agree with our investigator as they said she didnt consider that the 
policy hadnt been in joint names as Mrs A was responsible for managing the account and 
because Mrs As name wasnt on the account, they questioned the policys connection to the 
original account. So they asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Mr and Mrs A, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this 
decision.
Mr and Mrs As had taken out a fixed price energy account that had an add on heating 
breakdown policy. AmTrust said that the policy for the first year was charged at no extra 
cost. Mr and Mrs A agree that they were not charged for this and I have seen the policy 
schedule that supports this. 
But subsequent years would be charged. AmTrust said that the policy would automatically 
renew, unless Mr and Mrs A contacted to decline the renewal. In December 2019, the policy 
automatically renewed. Even though Mr and Mrs A believed that when they transferred the 
main energy account, this would mean any other account/policy they held would be closed.
I have reviewed the terms and conditions of the policy and it says:
You may terminate this Agreement at any time as long as you let us know by any of the
methods stated in clause 14.1. In the event you do terminate this Agreement, you will be
subject to the termination charge in accordance with clause 14.6 of this Agreement.
I think that this means that Mr and Mrs A wouldve had to have terminated
the agreement by directly informing AmTrust either by phone, email or letter. Further, the
policy provides that by only cancelling the direct debit didnt mean that the agreement had
come to an end. 
In addition, I have noted that both agreements had separate agreement numbers. One 
relating to the energy supply account and one relating to the heating breakdown cover. I am 
satisfied that the energy account was transferred to another supplier and this transfer 
concluded in December 2019. Mr and Mrs A said that they cancelled the direct debit 
instruction and I can see that this was done. But this was only for the energy account. 
However, in relation to the heating breakdown cover, I dont think the direct debit was 
cancelled nor the account closed as required under the terms and conditions of the policy. I 
have seen no evidence from Mr and Mrs A that they either wrote to, sent an email or phoned 
AmTrust to directly cancel the heating breakdown policy quoting its agreement number. So 
Im persuaded by AmTrusts position that the policy wasnt cancelled as required. It seems 
that the transfer of the energy supply, was separate to the heating breakdown policy, so this 
also needed to be closed and it wasnt done. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs A said that they had no information about the account as they 
had received no letters about it. AmTrust has said that it sent letters and a text message to 
Mr A about the policy. 
In relation to the text message, AmTrust provided me with a phone number that it sent the 
text to. Mr and Mrs A have confirmed that the number AmTrust used it not one that either of 
them had. I note that the mobile number is different to the one that Mr A says he has had for 
around eight years, so I am persuaded that AmTrust had the incorrect mobile number for Mr 
A and it is likely that he didnt receive the text.
But, I have read the copy of the renewal letter that AmTrust sent that gave details of the 
premium that was due for the following year. It also gave information about how the policy 
could be cancelled if it was no longer needed.
In addition to the renewal letter, two further letters were sent to Mr A to his home address. 
Those letters required Mr A to update his direct debit information and told him of AmTrusts 
attempts to collect payment. AmTrust sent a further letter  to the same address  which told 
Mr A that his policy was cancelled due to it being unable to collect the direct debit payments and a termination charge of £18.43 was required. Mr A confirmed that this last letter was 
received. 
I have seen copies of the documents he was sent when the policy started. These explained 
what the policy was and included the terms and conditions. I can see that they were sent to 
the correct address. So I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs A were likely to have seen the 
documents and I think its fair for AmTrust to have relied upon this. Also, Mr A mentioned 
that he was aware that the energy contract included free breakdown cover, so I am satisfied 
that Mr A ought to have known what the policy was and that he was the policy holder. On 
balance, I am persuaded that AmTrust sent the letters to the correct address. I understand 
that Mr and Mrs A said that they didnt receive them. But I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to conclude that AmTrust should be held responsible for postal errors. 
In addition, having reviewed the following term: if a schedule direct debit payment and the 
subsequent resubmission are both rejected, we may terminate your agreement and you will 
be liable for termination charges as detailed in clause 14.2. I am satisfied that AmTrust 
relied upon it when it applied the termination charge and I dont think it was unreasonable or 
unfair for it to have relied upon it. 
I have next considered Mr and Mrs A comments that because Mrs As name wasnt on the 
policy they questioned the policys connection to the original account. I have asked AmTrust 
for the reason why Mrs As name didnt appear on the policy. It said that as the accounts 
were two separate accounts and two separate departments on the breakdown policy it was 
only ever in Mr As name. 
I have reviewed the file and I can see that as far back as 2018, all the correspondence for 
the heating breakdown policy was in Mr As name only. Mr A accepts that he received the 
letter in 2018 which was the welcome letter that gave details about the policy and that the 
premium attracted no fee. If Mr A realised that his wifes name was missing from the policy, it 
was open to him to ask AmTrust to add his wife to the account, but he chose not to. So I 
think that AmTrusts comments that the policies were separate agreements and that the 
heating breakdown policy was only ever in Mr As name are persuasive. 
Overall, I am satisfied that AmTrust applied the terms and conditions of the policy fairly and 
could correctly request the termination charge. As such, I cant reasonably ask it to do 
anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman