DRN-2293106
The complaint
Mr J complains that he has lost out financially as a result of incorrect information he was 
given by Barclays Bank UK PLC. He says it initially said he would be able to borrow a higher 
amount than it subsequently said it would agree to lend.
In order to put matters right Mr J wants Barclays to pay him £50,000.
What happened
In early 2019 Mr J wanted to move home. Mr J says he initially approached a mortgage 
broker but was unhappy with the deals on offer. As Mr J had an existing residential mortgage 
with Barclays he approached it to discuss his borrowing requirements.
Mr J is a professional buy-to-let landlord. He discussed with Barclays whether he could fund 
the purchase without selling his existing home. Following his discussions with Barclays Mr J 
says he decided to take out a buy-to-let mortgage on his existing home and port his existing 
residential mortgage to the property he wanted to buy.
Mr J says that when he discussed his borrowing requirements with Barclays it initially said 
he could port his existing residential mortgage product to the new property, increase his 
borrowing and take £100,000 out of his mortgage reserve facility. 
Mr J says:
Based entirely on my conversations with [name of Barclays adviser], the next day I called the 
estate agent to confirm that I was no longer looking to sell my house, was able to obtain the 
relevant mortgages, and therefore in a position to proceed.
Mr J then made an offer on the property he wanted to buy.
Unfortunately, when Mr J subsequently discussed his source of income and mortgage 
requirements with a different adviser at Barclays it came to light that he wouldnt be able to 
borrow the amount he required. 
Mr J complained to Barclays. He said he had been given incorrect information by the first 
adviser he spoke to in relation to the amount he would be able to borrow and whether he 
could draw down funds from his mortgage reserve account and then port the mortgage to a 
new property.
Mr J said that as a result of Barclays refusal to offer the mortgage he required he would be 
around £50,000 worse off. He said that, based on his initial conversations with Barclays, he 
had offered more for the property that he wanted to buy than he would otherwise have done. 
He said he had also had to take out a mortgage with another lender at a higher interest rate 
than his existing mortgage with Barclays. And he had been forced to encash investments 
that had been yielding around 6% per year to make up the difference between the purchase 
price and the mortgage he had secured with another lender.
Barclays didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. It did however pay Mr J £200 to compensate him for 
the inconvenience the delay in responding to his complaint had caused. It also refunded the 
£64.60 interest Mr J had been charged when he withdrew money from his mortgage reserve 
account.
Mr J was unhappy with Barclays response and asked this service to look into his complaint.
Initially our investigator said she didnt think Barclays needed to do anything more to put 
matters right. She noted that there was no recording of the conversations Mr J had with 
Barclays, so it wasnt possible to know for certain what was discussed. But she accepted 
that it was likely that Mr Js source of income was discussed. However, she said that, given 
Mr J is a professional buy-to-let landlord, she felt he would have understood that until his 
mortgage application had been considered and a mortgage offer made, no formal offer to 
lend had been made.
In relation to the losses Mr J said he had incurred, she noted that Mr J hadnt exchanged 
contracts on the property he wanted to buy when Barclays said it wasnt willing to lend the 
amount he required. She said he could have pulled out of the sale if he had wanted to when 
he wasnt able to secure the level of borrowing he had initially discussed with Barclays.
She noted Mr J said he had panicked when Barclays said he couldnt borrow the amount 
initially discussed. He cashed in investments and secured a mortgage with another lender as 
he didnt want to lose the house.
Our investigator remained of the view that Mr J could have chosen not to go ahead with the 
purchase once he knew Barclays wasnt willing to lend the amount he required.
Mr J reiterated how stressful he had found the situation and he said that if he had known 
from the outset that he wouldnt be able to borrow the amount he required from Barclays he 
would have had time to raise the funds to buy the property from a different source, for 
example by releasing equity from one of his other investment properties.
Having re-considered the matter our investigator said she felt Barclays should pay Mr J a 
further £250 to compensate him for the loss of expectation and inconvenience he had 
suffered. 
Mr J didnt accept our investigators revised view. He said he felt that the suggested £250 
compensation for distress when I have asked for £50,000 is insufficient. I totally relied on the 
honesty, professionalism and knowledge of Barclays' Mortgage Advisors, and the 
subsequent downward spiral in my mental and financial health that they have caused really 
needs to be properly addressed. Without serious consequences for them, they will continue 
misinforming their customers and negatively affecting their lives.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mr Js position and I have very carefully considered everything he has 
said and provided in connection with this complaint. Mr J says he has suffered problems with 
his mental health as a result of Barclays refusal to lend the amount it initially discussed. 
I appreciate that it must have been very frustrating for Mr J to find out that he wouldnt be 
able to borrow the amount he had initially discussed with the Barclays adviser. But as our 
investigator explained, where a lender acts incorrectly or gives incorrect information, we would normally look to put the customer back in the position they would have been in, but for 
the error.
If Barclays had given Mr J the correct information at the outset, he would have known that it 
wasnt willing to lend the amount he required. So, if he still wanted to go ahead with the 
house purchase, he would have needed to see if he could get the mortgage he required from 
another lender and he might also have needed to encash investments to fund the purchase.
Mr J says that if he had been given the correct information at the outset, he would have 
made a lower offer on the property he wanted to buy. I appreciate that Mr J didnt want to try 
to re-negotiate the purchase price as he was concerned the vendor would put the property 
back on the market. But I must also take into account that it was Mr Js decision to go ahead 
with the purchase  he could have withdrawn his offer as he hadnt formally committed to 
buy the property.
I must also take into account that in the email Barclays sent to Mr J on 27 March 2019, 
following the initial discussion about the amount Barclays might be willing to lend it said:
You have told me that your home is worth approximately £575,000 so 75% is £431,250. You 
currently owe approximately £125,000 so you may be able to raise a net £306,250.
The purchase price of your new home is £615,000 and you told me that purchase costs will 
be approximately £45,000 so the total required will be £660,000. You will have £306,000 
raised from your let to buy mortgage meaning you need a further £354,000 which you plan to 
raise from a new residential mortgage and this will be a combination of your ported mortgage 
of £125,000 plus whatever amount you are able to raise extra secured against your 
new home plus an additional buy to let mortgage which you will raise against the property 
that is currently let out on a permission to let basis. 
(bold is my emphasis)
I appreciate that Mr J feels he was told he would be able to borrow the amount he required 
but I think this email made clear that no firm offer to lend had been made.
I do understand that Mr J was disappointed and felt badly let down when he was told 
Barclays wouldnt agree to the level of borrowing it had initially discussed. But I cant 
reasonably require Barclays to compensate Mr J for the additional costs he says he has 
incurred as a result of Barclays not being willing to lend the amount he required. 
It is not in dispute that Mr J suffered a loss of expectation. But as our investigator explained 
Mr J could have chosen not to go ahead with the property purchase once he knew he 
wouldnt be able to borrow the amount he had initially discussed with Barclays.
It was Mr Js decision to proceed with the purchase, encash investments and secure a 
mortgage at a higher interest rate with another lender. He wasnt under any formal obligation 
to do so.
I do understand that this is not the decision Mr J was hoping for, but I am required to be fair 
to both parties when determining complaints. In this case I dont think Barclays can 
reasonably be held responsible for any extra costs Mr J incurred as a result of choosing to 
go ahead with a property purchase after Barclays said it wasnt willing to lend the amount it 
had initially discussed with him.
But I do think Mr J should receive some modest compensation for the loss of expectation he 
suffered.
Putting things rightOur investigator said she felt Barclays should pay Mr J £250 for the trouble and upset the 
loss of expectation caused him, in addition to the £264.60 it had already paid him. I think this 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In order to put matters right Barclays Bank UK 
PLC should pay Mr J £250 for the trouble and upset the loss of expectation caused him, in 
addition to the £264.60 it had already paid him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman