DRN-3025794
The complaint
Mr G complains that Metro Bank PLC isnt pursuing his chargeback claim after goods he 
ordered werent delivered.
What happened
Mr G ordered an item online costing £125 and paid for it with his Metro Bank debit card. He 
received a notification that the item had been dispatched and would arrive on 1 November 
2020. Mr G says the item didnt arrive on 1 November and he checked his emails and found 
one saying the item had been delivered on 31 October. As he hadnt received the item, Mr G 
contacted the supplier and was told that it had been delivered so there was nothing more it 
could do.
Mr G raised a chargeback with Metro Bank to reclaim the £125. He sent through the 
evidence supporting his claim and then received a letter asking for the same information to 
be provided. Mr G contacted Metro Bank on 21 December to say he had already provided 
the evidence. He was initially told he would need to resend this but then the information was 
found. 
Metro Bank applied a temporary credit to Mr Gs account on 22 December. It was then 
provided with information from the supplier that the item had been delivered to the correct 
address on 31 October. Metro Bank said that because it received evidence showing the item 
had been delivered to the correct address it was unable to progress Mr Gs claim any further.
The temporary credit was re-debited from Mr Gs account. 
Mr G didnt think that Metro Bank had dealt with his chargeback fairly and referred his 
complaint to this service. He wants the £125 refunded and compensation.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He thought that given the evidence that the 
delivery was made to the correct address, further pursuit of the chargeback would not have 
been successful in this case and so it was reasonable that Metro Bank didnt pursue the 
case further.
Mr G didnt accept our investigators view. He reiterated that the item was delivered a day 
before it was expected to be delivered and that no-one was in on that day and so any 
signature gained would be false. He said that there was evidence online of parcels not being 
delivered by the supplier and confirmed he didnt receive his delivery. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has raised concerns with the service he has received from Metro Bank. This decision 
relates to his complaint about the chargeback claim he raised when he didnt receive an item 
he had ordered. 
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme that Metro Bank is part of. It is a process by which claims 
can be made and are decided based on the card scheme's rules. Therefore, while I note the 
comments Mr G has made about the supplier, it is not our role to comment on the service 
provided by the supplier. Instead my decision is about whether Metro Bank acted in the way 
we would expect in regard to the chargeback claim and whether its actions led to any loss or 
additional difficulty for Mr G.
Mr G contacted Metro Bank on 14 December 2020 and explained he hadnt received an item 
he had paid for using his debit card. Metro Bank explained the information that was needed 
and a follow up letter with this information was also sent. Mr G contacted Metro Bank when 
he received the letter to say he had already sent in the information. He was initially asked to 
resend the information but then his evidence was found, and it was agreed his claim would 
be looked into and a temporary credit was applied to Mr Gs account. As Metro Bank 
considered the chargeback claim and applied a temporary credit I find it acted in line with 
what we would expect at this stage.
As part of the chargeback process the supplier was contacted and it defended the claim. It 
provided evidence that the item had been delivered to the correct address on 31 October 
2020. I note the comments about a signature and can see that it says a signature will be 
needed on the dispatch confirmation. I havent seen a copy of a signature and so cannot say 
if this was or wasnt received. That said, I still find that the information that has been 
provided showing the tracking of the item and delivery to the correct address is enough for 
me to say that Metro Bank didnt act unreasonably by accepting the claim had been 
defended and not taking it any further.
I know this will be a disappointment to Mr G but as set out above this decision is about how 
Metro Bank acted in regard to the chargeback. Mr G can raise his concerns about the 
suppliers actions separately with the supplier, but this isnt something I can hold Metro Bank 
liable for. In this case, as I think Metro Bank did what was reasonably required of it in the 
chargeback process I do not find I can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman