DRN-2362813
The complaint
Mr N and Mrs R complain that APS Financial Limited (APS) didnt do enough to prevent 
their loss when they sent money to one of APS customers as a result of a scam.
Although the payment was made from a joint account, for ease of reading and as hes done 
most of the correspondence in relation to the complaint, Ill mostly just refer to Mr N. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. In February 2019, Mr N was unfortunately the victim 
of a scam. He sent £2,970 as payment from his joint account with his own bank L for flights 
to a scammer who never provided any tickets. The money was sent to the details the 
scammer had provided which was for an account with APS.
The scammer had been impersonating a genuine travel firm and the following day, after 
contacting the real firm, Mr N realised what had happened and contacted L. L in turn got in 
touch with APS. But unfortunately, by this time, all his money had already been spent and 
nothing remained to be returned. 
Mr N complained to APS but says they didnt respond until some time later after hed 
referred the matter to our service. He was unhappy that APS had allowed a scammer to 
open and operate an account. He was also concerned that APS hadnt checked the 
beneficiary name on the account matched what hed used when instructing the payment. He 
wants APS to reimburse him the loss hes suffered. 
Before 31 January 2019, generally a sender could only complain to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service about their own bank in push payment fraud cases. But Mr Ns right to 
complain to our service about the receiving/beneficiary bank comes about following changes 
made by the FCA to our jurisdiction rules - which now allow, in limited circumstances, eligible 
complainants to refer complaints about receiving banks.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he didnt think APS did anything that had caused Mr Ns loss. Mr N disagrees and 
has asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for essentially the same reasons. I know 
this will be disappointing for Mr N, so Ill explain why. 
APS have provided our service with the details they took when opening their customers 
account. This includes information in relation to the account holder. Im not able to share this 
information with Mr N and I can understand why that is frustrating. But having looked at all 
APS have shared with this service, Im satisfied they did their due diligence when opening 
their customers account. There was nothing at that time that reasonably could have given 
APS reason to have concerns that the account would later be used for fraud. 
APS have evidenced that the notification they got from L was the first report of fraud in 
relation to that account. So this isnt a case where there had been a prior notification that 
hadnt been appropriately responded to. 
APS have obligations to monitor their business relationships and this would include giving 
consideration to unusual and out of character transactions. Ive looked at the transactions on 
the account prior to and shortly after Mr Ns incoming payment. The account had been 
relatively recently opened, so there wasnt a history of activity against which what was usual 
could be assessed. But there wasnt any account activity that I think would reasonably have 
stood out to APS as suspicious or significantly outside of what would be expected for an 
account of that type. 
Once notified of the scam, APS acted very promptly, but unfortunately by that point, Mr Ns 
money had already been spent, withdrawn, or transferred from the account. So, I dont think 
APS are responsible for any delays that meant money that otherwise might have been 
recovered, wasnt. 
Mr N has said that the beneficiary name he used, wouldnt have matched the account the 
funds credited to. He thinks APS ought to have picked up on this and that it would have 
prevented his loss. I understand this point, but the relevant rules at the time meant that APS 
would only use the unique identifiers or account number and sort code provided. There was 
no requirement for them to check further information (if any) provided such as the reference 
for the payment or the beneficiary name. So I dont think APS should have prevented Mr Ns 
loss in this way. 
More recently a system called Confirmation of Payee has been rolled out across much of 
the industry. This allows those sending payments to check the beneficiary account name 
matches what theyre expecting. But this wasnt widely in use at the time Mr N made his 
payment, so I cant fairly criticise APS for not already having this system in place. 
Particularly as it requires co-operation between a sending and receiving bank and wouldnt 
have been something any one bank could have introduced independently. I accept that had 
this system been in place, it might have helped Mr N to not fall victim to a scam. But I can 
only assess APS actions against what was the industry practice at the time. So whilst I 
understand this will be frustrating, I cant use it as a basis to tell APS they ought to refund 
Mr N. 
Mr N also pointed out that APS didnt respond to his initial complaint. Ive considered this but 
for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think this has made a difference to whether or not 
they would have been able to recover any of his loss. And Im not persuaded that the impact 
of not responding was such that compensation is appropriate in these circumstances. Mr N 
brought the matter to our service, and we investigated, despite APS not having issued a 
complaint response.  
Im of course very sorry to hear that Mr N and Mrs R have been the victims of such a cruel 
scam. And I hope the authorities are able to successfully prosecute those responsible. I 
dont doubt this episode has had a significant impact on both of them. But overall, Im 
satisfied that APS acted appropriately in the circumstances. I dont think they are responsible 
for any acts or omissions that could have prevented the loss. My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman