DRN-3764285
The complaint
Miss S complains that Black Horse Limited acted unfairly when she fell into arrears with a 
hire purchase agreement for a car due to a change in her financial circumstances.
What happened
In September 2016 Miss S entered into a 48-month hire purchase agreement for a new car. 
The agreement was based on a personal contract purchase and had 48 monthly payments 
of £525 and in the 49th month there was an optional final payment of £12,238. 
Unfortunately, Miss Ss circumstances changed, and she fell into arrears. The agreement 
ended in November 2020 and Miss S was unable to meet the final payment. Miss S 
contacted Black Horse and explained her circumstances and asked for a hold on the 
account as she wanted to keep the car. Miss S said she hoped to make payments on the car 
once she had received an awaited pay out. Black Horse warned Miss S that it may have to 
seek repossession the car.
Miss S discussed her income and expenses with Black Horse, but no payment plan was 
agreed. Miss S said she had tried to make payments online towards the arrears but wasnt 
able to. There followed calls between Miss S and Black Horse but there were difficulties with 
calls dropping. Her account was put on hold. Miss S made some ad hoc payments towards 
the balance on her account.
In April 2022 Miss S offered to start paying £100pm towards the outstanding arrears. Black 
Horse declined the offer and said that the options that were open to Miss S were for her to 
do one of the following:
voluntarily surrender the car which would then be sold at auction and she would then 
be liable for any remaining balance,
privately sell the car and settle the agreement 
part-exchange the car and settle the agreement.
Black Horse said the car was at risk of further action if the arrears werent cleared. Miss S 
said she wanted to keep the car.
As Miss S was unhappy with Black Horses decision to decline her payment plan offer, she 
made a complaint to it. She also said she had tried to complain about Black Horses handling 
of her account online but had received no responses. Black Horse issued its final response 
letter in June 2022. It didnt uphold her complaint.
Black Horse said that the balance on Miss Ss account stood at over £12,000 as the final 
payment had been due in November 2020. It acknowledged that she had made some 
payments on the account, the last being in January 2022, and had offered to enter into a 
payment plan for £100pm in April 2022 as she was currently unable to work. But Black 
Horse said it hadnt been able to accept Miss Ss payment offer as it would take over 10 
years to pay the outstanding balance.
Black Horse also confirmed that due to arrears having accrued on Miss Ss account prior to 
the agreement ending and the lump sum falling due, that refinance was not an option for her. 
Black Horse said that although it was aware things had been stressful for Miss S it confirmed 
that the options open to her were as had already been outlined in its final response letter.
Black Horse said that in respect of complaints Miss S had tried to make online, that this 
facility wasnt available anymore for customers and it hadnt been able to locate any 
complaints in this format from her. It apologised for this.
Miss S was unhappy at Black Horses response and complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that her complaint be upheld as he didnt think Black Horse 
had acted unfairly or unreasonably. He said Miss S had been able to keep the car for a 
significant period of time after the agreement had ended and the final payment fallen due.
Our investigator said that the agreement Miss S had signed set out the payments and that 
the final payment of £12,238 was optional as the car could be returned at that point. He said 
that there was no option provided at the end of the agreement for a payment plan to be set 
up for the final payment, so he didnt think Black Horse needed to offer to refinance this 
amount. Our investigator said that as the car still belonged to Black Horse at this point, he 
could understand why it would want to collect it if the final repayment wasnt made, 
particularly as a car was a depreciating asset.
Our investigator said that from the evidence provided he hadnt seen that Miss S was in a 
position to pay off the outstanding amount in a reasonable amount of time. Our investigator 
said he thought Black Horse had been acting in Miss Ss best interests in not allowing the 
debt to continue any longer and there was no obligation on it under the agreement to agree 
a repayment plan when the final payment fell due..
Miss S disagreed with our investigators view. She said her offer had been for £100pm and 
then she would have returned to paying £500pm as per the original contract term. Miss S 
said she didnt think the final lump sum payment term was lawful as without a refinancing 
option such a large amount wouldnt be possible for most people. She said she thought the 
agreement had been misleading and had led to her buying a car that was unaffordable for 
her. Miss S said she was being forced to return the car by Black Horse who had treated her 
poorly and had always only wanted to be paid the outstanding amount in a lump sum.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen Miss S feels she was misled as to how the payments were to be made under the 
agreement. She says the large lump sum makes the monthly payments cheaper and so 
makes the agreement seem affordable when that is not the case. While I agree that the end 
lump sum payment does mean the monthly contractual payments are cheaper than if she 
had paid for the car in full over the same term this doesnt mean that the agreement itself is 
unfair or unreasonable. Looking at the agreements terms and conditions, I think the 
payments are clear and that the final payment is optional. It sets out that at the end of the 
agreement, (month 49) a lump sum of £12,238 will be due but says instead of paying the 
Final Repayment for the Goods you may return them to us on or before the date when it is 
due. Miss S signed both the agreement and the pre-contract information sheet to confirm that the 
agreement has been explained to her. So, I think its reasonable to say that Miss S would 
have been aware that if she wanted to keep the car that she would need to pay the £12,238 
as a lump sum when it fell due. I also think its fair to say that if this agreement wasnt 
suitable for her then she could have chosen not to take it out.
As the agreement doesnt say that Black Horse will offer to refinance this lump sum when it 
becomes due at the end of the agreement, then I think its fair to say there wouldnt be an 
expectation or obligation for it do so. And due to Miss Ss financial circumstances at that time 
(she was no longer working, and she had missed or made late payments) then I also dont 
think it was unreasonable of Black Horse to not make this offer. So, while this will be 
disappointing to Miss S, looking at the agreement I disagree with her that the hire purchase 
agreement was misleading or unfair.
Im sorry to hear that Miss S has been through a difficult period and I appreciate she feels 
Black Horse was rude and unsympathetic. But looking at the notes on the account, while I 
can see there were a number of dropped calls between her and Black Horse it appears that 
it did try to contact her. I also cant say that the calls failing suddenly were due to any actions 
of Black Horse.
I also appreciate Miss S feels that Black Horse has only wanted payment in full and hasnt 
been open to payment plans. But looking at her situation, I think Black Horse was acting 
reasonably in explaining that the car was at risk if payment couldnt be made. Ive seen that 
Miss S had raised clearing the outstanding lump sum once she had received a pay out, but 
unfortunately this payment was then delayed, and no date could be provided as to when this 
money might be received. It also appeared that the amount that would be paid out was 
uncertain. Miss S then offered to start a repayment plan at £100pm which Black Horse 
declined.
But even though Miss S had made these offers in respect of paying off the balance, I think 
Black Horse acted reasonably when it set out the three options that were now open to Miss 
S, even though all of these meant she wouldnt be able to keep the car. She has had the car 
in her possession for a significant period of time now despite the agreement ending in 
November 2020. And I dont think her offers, either because of their uncertainty or because 
of the length of time it would take for her to clear the balance, were unfairly declined by 
Black Horse.
Miss S says she offered £100pm as an interim measure only and was going to increase this 
to £500pm. But I havent seen that she told Black Horse this as it isnt recorded in the notes 
of her discussions with it. However, Im also unclear, given Miss Ss current situation, when 
she would have been able to increase her payments. 
So, I think Black Horse was acting fairly in seeking to reduce the amount of debt Miss S 
would be facing by advising of ways for her to clear the debt by selling the car or voluntarily 
surrendering it.  It would need to consider what was sustainably affordable and long-term 
debt of that size wouldnt be in Miss Ss best interests even though I know she wishes to 
keep the car. 
I also think that as Black Horse still owns the car that it is within its rights to seek return of it  
when taking into account how long the final payment has been outstanding, that the value of 
the car would be depreciating  and Miss Ss limited ability to clear the outstanding amount.  
So, for the reasons set out above and although Im sorry this will be of disappointment to 
Miss S, Im not upholding her complaint. I dont think Black Horse has acted unfairly in the 
way it has managed her account.My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman