The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about the lack of help and support they were given by The 
Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Platform when they were in financial difficulties. To 
settle the complaint they want Platform to pay them compensation. Mr B has dealt with 
the complaint throughout, both with Platform and with the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
What happened
This complaint centres on whether or not Platform has done enough to help Mr and 
Mrs B in relation to their financial difficulties. In the circumstances, although as a general 
rule I would usually only provide a brief summary of events, as the crux of the complaint 
is about Platforms alleged failure to engage with Mr B or consider his proposals, I will 
set out in some detail the timeline of events, as recorded in Platforms contemporaneous 
notes (that is, notes that were made at the time the events took place), the 
correspondence between the parties and in Mr and Mrs Bs complaint documents.
Mr and Mrs B had a residential mortgage with Platform, secured on a property in which 
they used to live. They borrowed £213,000 on a capital repayment basis over a term of 
18 years. The mortgage was initially on a fixed rate until 31 December 2018, after which 
it reverted to Platforms Standard Variable Rate (SVR), currently 4.34%. 
In November 2018 Mr and Mrs B borrowed an additional £109,000 for home 
improvements, which was on Platforms SVR (at that time 4.99%). In December 2018 Mr 
and Mrs B purchased a boat.
In March 2019 Mr and Mrs Bs solicitors asked Platform to forward the title deeds as the 
property was being sold. 
In May 2019 Mr B contacted Platform explaining that he and Mrs B were about to 
experience financial difficulty. Theyd put tenants in the property and asked Platform to 
transfer their mortgage onto a buy-to-let (BTL), which was declined. Platform also didnt 
give consent to let the property. 
Platforms notes show that Mr and Mrs B owned another BLT property, and that Mr and 
Mrs B had £10,000 in savings. It was explained to Mr B that Platform would expect Mr B 
to maintain payments from savings prior to any other forbearance and confirmed this in a 
letter dated 3 May 2019. The notes show Platform was told that Mr and Mrs B would be 
moving into their other BTL property when the tenancy at that property ended. 
DRN-1801932Platform offered a one-month payment concession for June 2019, which was declined. 
Platforms notes record that Mr B was unhappy that this deferred payment would be 
recorded as arrears and so didnt want to go ahead with it. 
In September 2019 Mr B explained that the buyers had pulled out of the sale just before 
exchange of contracts. He said that his other BTL property was no longer tenanted. After 
taking full details of Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances, Platform wasnt able to offer any 
concession at that time and confirmed this in a letter dated 25 September 2019.
In October 2019 Mr B confirmed the property was empty and said that he wasnt going to 
pay the mortgage on it any longer. Mr B confirmed that he and Mrs B had moved onto a 
canal boat where they were now living. Platform made Mr B aware of the implications of 
non-payment in relation to repossession and the impact on his credit file. Platform asked 
Mr B if he wished to surrender the property, but Mr B confirmed he did not.
On 15 October 2019 Mr and Mrs Bs solicitors contacted Platform asking for a 
redemption statement.
On 23 October 2019 Mr B told Platform that he would not be making further payment as 
he intended to use the money to instruct a solicitor to take Platform to court instead. 
Mr B confirmed the sale of the property had fallen through. Mr B was very unhappy at 
the way he had been treated and didnt think Platform had done anything to help.
After a long discussion with Platform about his circumstances, Platform offered a 
payment holiday for November 2019, and sent Mr and Mrs B a form to complete on 
23 October 2019, which explained the implications of a payment holiday in relation to the 
account balance. 
During a telephone conversation on 25 October 2019, Platform explained that the direct 
debit for 1 November was in place, notwithstanding that a payment holiday had been 
agreed. Platform also noted the consent form for the payment holiday hadnt been 
returned. Mr B asked Platform to cancel the direct debit, which was confirmed in writing 
the same day.
Mr B confirmed that a remortgage was going ahead and that funds should be in place on 
4 November 2019. On 6 November 2019 the consent form for the one-month payment 
holiday was received. 
On 8 November 2019 Mr B confirmed the property was being rented for £1,100 per 
month (which was more than £800 below the monthly mortgage instalment). He 
explained that he was working with a lender to try to arrange a BTL mortgage and asked 
for an interest-only concession while the application was being reviewed by that lenders 
underwriters. Platform wrote to Mr and Mrs B confirming that this had been agreed, but 
the full repayment would be due from 1 December 2019. The letter also explained how 
the payment holiday affected the mortgage balance.
On 15 November 2019 Mr B explained that his mortgage broker had confirmation that 
another lender could offer a BTL mortgage and that this had been agreed in principle 
Mr B said this should take 3-4 weeks to complete. He explained there were tenants in 
the property on a 12-month contract with an option to buy, so putting the property on the 
market wasnt feasible. Mr B expressed his dissatisfaction at having to use his savings to pay the mortgage and didnt think hed been treated fairly. Mr B said his solicitors agreed 
with him that he had a strong case against Platform.
Platforms notes show that it was concerned about the tenancy, as this would affect any 
attempt to sell the property. Platform was also concerned about the future sustainability 
of the mortgage if the remortgage to a new lender didnt proceed. 
Despite this, on 19 November 2019 Platform agreed a three-month interest-only 
concession for December 2019, January 2020 and February 2020. But given that there 
was a breach of the account terms and conditions (an unauthorised tenancy), Platform 
wasnt willing to extend this.
Platform communicated this to Mr B on 10 November 2019, when Mr B confirmed he 
had landlord insurance in place. Mr B also confirmed his other BTL property was being 
rented out. Platform discussed the longer term and said it considered the mortgage, in 
the present circumstances, was unsustainable, and Mr B agreed with that.
On 19 November 2019 Mr B complained to Platform about what he perceived to be the 
lack of support and help. He was unhappy that he and Mrs B had had to use up their 
savings to keep the mortgage up-to-date, and thought Platform could and should have 
done more to help. 
On 30 December 2019 Mr B explained to Platform that the BLT remortgage wasnt going 
ahead, as it was a five-year fixed rate and so if it was sold within those five years thered 
be an early repayment charge of £10,000. Mr B asked for an interest-only concession 
until October 2020. Mr B said that he would be speaking to his tenants in January 2020 
about them buying the property and said he would call back at the beginning of February 
2020 to update Platform.
On 31 December 2019 Platform issued a final response in relation to Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint about how the account had been handled, about letters sent by Platform 
about arrears and that their credit files had been affected. Platform explained that it 
hadnt received the signed paperwork for the interest-only concession until 9 December, 
at which point the account was amended retrospectively to show the reduced payment. 
Platform said that the credit files should not have been impacted but said it would put 
this right if this turned out to be incorrect.
On 16 January 2019 Mr B called Platform to confirm the tenants wouldnt be buying the 
property after all.
On 20 January 2020 Mr B set out his strategy to Platform. He explained that the tenants 
would be in the property until October 2020, and so he and Mrs B had decided to put the 
property on the market in July, and if it hadnt sold by then, they would sell the house to 
a company that buys properties quickly. Mr B wanted the mortgage to be kept on 
interest-only until October 2020.
Platform considered what Mr B had said, but wasnt able to agree to this proposal and 
explained this to Mr B on 23 January 2020 and confirmed in writing, with Platform 
explaining its reasons for the decline. Platform also provided details of its Assisted 
Voluntary Sale (AVS) scheme.Mr B discussed matters again with Platform, but nothing was resolved. As a result, 
Platform treated Mr Bs dissatisfaction as a complaint.
There were further discussions with Mr B on 1 February 2020, when Mr B was adamant 
he would make no further payment to the mortgage until the tenants left in October 
2020. Platform followed this up with a letter outlining what was discussed, and urging 
Mr B to maintain payments. The letter said Despite us not being able to agree to your 
preferred arrangement of continuing with an interest only conversion, there may be other 
options available to you. We strongly suggest you reconsider your stance and call us on 
the number provided to discuss this further.
On 6 February 2020 a computer-generated letter was sent confirming the mortgage 
would revert to full capital and interest payment from 1 March 2020.
Mr B spoke to Platform on 10 February and said the only outcome he wanted was an 
interest-only concession for a further three months. On 15 February 2020 Mr B raised a 
new complaint  about having been told the mortgage would go onto full repayment from 
1 March, when he thought Platform was reconsidering a further three-month 
interest-only concession.
On 17 February 2020 Mr B told Platform that if an interest-only concession wasnt 
agreed until October, hed make no further payment to the mortgage.
In its final response letter dated 24 February 2020, Platform said it didnt think it had 
done anything wrong in relation to its handling of the account. Platform explained that it 
had considered the available options to help Mr and Mrs B, but Platform was satisfied 
that the full repayments were affordable. Platform said it had granted concessions 
because it had been told by Mr and Mrs B that they anticipated a re-mortgage or sale of 
the property imminently. 
Platform said it had looked at other options but wasnt prepared to extend the 
interest only concession until October 2020. Platform confirmed it had looked at offering 
Mr and Mrs B another mortgage product, but this would be on the basis of them living in 
the property, in accordance with the terms of the mortgage contract.
In the circumstances, Platform didnt uphold the complaint and provided referral rights to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Mr B telephoned Platform on 28 February 2020 but wasnt able to persuade Platform to 
change its stance. By this time, Mr B had already contacted the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
On 4 March 2020 solicitors acting for Mr and Mrs B asked for a redemption statement 
calculated to 16 March 2020.
Mr B complained about incorrect information given by Platform in two calls on 2 March 
2020. In its final response dated 17 March 2020, Platform acknowledged its error but 
noted that the second call had ended before Platforms agent was able to rectify the 
mistake. Platform had confirmed the correct information immediately, in a letter sent on 
2 March 2020. Platform paid compensation of £50 for its error.On 17 March 2020 Mr B called and said that the government had just said that lenders 
must give payment holidays. He wanted a call back to discuss this but was unhappy that 
Platform wouldnt consider this without completing and Income & Expenditure 
assessment or discussing the account.
On 23 March 2020 Mr and Mrs Bs solicitors asked for a redemption statement 
calculated to 27 March 2020. On 27 March 2020 Mr and Mrs B redeemed the mortgage 
and further advance by re-mortgaging to another lender.
An investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. The 
investigator noted Mr B was also complaining about the terms on which Platform was 
prepared to grant the further advance, including the interest rate. The Financial 
Ombudsman Service had already considered that issue in a previous complaint. She 
explained that we wouldnt look at this again as wed already dealt with that complaint. 
In relation to this current complaint, the investigator was satisfied Platform had 
considered appropriate forbearance when Mr and Mrs B were in financial difficulty, 
including a payment holiday and an interest-only concession. She was also satisfied that 
it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs B to use their savings to pay their debts, ahead of any 
concessions that could be put in place.
Mr B was angry at the investigators findings and said she hadnt taken the complaint 
seriously. He refused to accept what the investigator had said and denied there had ever 
been a payment holiday put in place. Although the investigator explained that this was all 
set out in Platforms contact notes, Mr B disputed the veracity of these.
Mr B said that hed kept Platform informed throughout about what was happening with 
the property but no help was offered. Mr B also said that the easiest solution would have 
been to not pay the mortgage and let Platform repossess it, rather than use his savings 
up. He said that he had an exit plan for October 2020, when the tenancy expired. He 
could have put the house up for sale three months before the tenancy ended to try to sell 
it, and if that didnt happen, hed have sold it to a company that buys properties 
immediate for a reduced rate. 
Because the complaint remains unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I confirm that I will not be reconsidering Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about the interest 
rate applied to the further advance in 2018 and how this impacted on their finances. The 
Financial Ombudsman Service considered this in a complaint which was closed in August 
2019 and so its not appropriate to look at it again. Our rules provide for this.
In relation to the current complaint, Im afraid I have unwelcome news for Mr and Mrs B: Im 
not upholding their complaint, for the reasons given below.
Mr B says that Platform failed to provide any meaningful assistance when he explained that 
he was about to experience financial difficulties. Mr B says that he has had to use up all his 
savings to pay the mortgage, and considers this to be unfair.I disagree. Where a borrower has available resources, such as savings, I would expect 
those to be used first before a lender is expected to put in place any concessions. I fully 
understand Mr B considered his savings to be for a rainy day, but that rainy day came 
when Mr and Mrs B began to experience financial difficulty.
There are certain steps lenders are required to take for borrowers when a mortgage is in 
arrears. The starting point is that lenders have a duty to treat all customers, but particularly 
those facing financial hardship, fairly. Balanced against that, one of the fundamental 
principles underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has the right to receive 
payment of the money owed to it. 
The Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (known as MCOB) 
sets out at MCOB 13 what lenders are required to do to help borrowers in arrears. UK 
Finance (formerly The Council of Mortgage Lenders) also has its own guidelines about what 
it expects lenders to do to comply with MCOB, which mirror closely the requirements of 
MCOB.
A lender is required to explore ways to resolve an arrears situation, especially if the problem 
that created the arrears to begin with is one that looks to be short-term and capable of being 
resolved. For long-term difficulties, a lender must also look at other ways to help, such 
transferring a mortgage from capital and interest repayment to interest-only, deferring 
interest for a period of time or capitalisation of arrears. But the lender is under a regulatory 
obligation to ensure that any arrangement is affordable and sustainable. 
Although Mr and Mrs B were, for the most part, able to maintain their mortgage payments, I 
can see that Platform offered them two payment holidays  in June 2019 (which wasnt 
taken up) and again in November 2019, which Mr and Mrs B accepted. Mr B told the 
investigator that Platform had never offered a payment holiday; he is mistaken, as there is 
the signed acceptance from him and Mrs B when this was granted in November 2019.
Platform also granted an interest-only concession for three months, as it was told a sale of 
the property to the tenants was imminent. I think this was reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
Indeed, given that Mr and Mrs B had rented out the property without consent (and at a rent 
which was substantially less than the monthly mortgage payment), I think that the 
concessions granted by Platform were more than it was required to do in the circumstances. 
I can see from the case notes that Platform gave very careful consideration to all the 
proposals Mr B put forward and weighed up the available options. 
When the sale to the tenants fell through, Platform was asked to extend the interest-only 
concession until October 2020, when the property would be vacant again. I dont think 
Platform acted unfairly when it declined this request. 
The property had been encumbered by an unauthorised tenancy, and Mr B had been putting 
forward various differing scenarios for some time about what was happening with the 
property  initially a sale with vacant possession which unfortunately fell through. After that, 
over a period of several months, Platform was told that a new BLT mortgage was imminent 
and so was it prepared to grant reasonable forbearance. But overall I dont think Platforms 
decision to decline an interest-only concession until October 2020 was unreasonable. There 
was no guarantee the house would be sold, or that Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances would 
have changed. Conclusion
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs B were hoping for. I can see from the account 
notes and from his contact with our service that Mr B feels very strongly about what he 
perceives to be unfair treatment by Platform (and by our investigator). I can assure Mr B that 
I have given very careful consideration to everything hes said. But, after doing so, I dont 
think Platform has treated him or Mrs B unfairly.
I think the £50 Platform paid for giving Mr B incorrect information on the phone on 2 March 
2020 is adequate compensation, particularly as the agent tried to call him back immediately 
to correct this, and a letter of correction was sent the same day. I havent found any other 
failings by Platform that would justify a payment of compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman