DRN-1432832
Complaint 
Mr H complains Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent irresponsibly to 
him. 
Background 
Between August 2008 and December 2008, Mr H borrowed six loans from Sunny. The 
borrowing history is set out as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld in respect of loans 4 to 6. He 
thought that by loan 4, proportionate checks would have shown Sunny that Mr H would 
struggle to sustainably afford his loan repayments. 
Sunny disagreed with that view. It offered to uphold the complaint in respect of loan 6, but Mr 
H didnt accept that proposal. As the parties are not in agreement with our adjudicator, the 
matter has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H could Loan Date TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount
1 30/08/2018 01/10/2018 6 £200.00
2 02/09/2018 01/10/2018 6 £200.00
3 10/09/2018 01/10/2018 6 £200.00
4 13/09/2018 01/10/2018 6 £200.00
5 20/12/2018 03/07/2019 6 £200.00
6 27/12/2018 25/01/2019 6 £400.00repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Neither party disagreed with what our adjudicator said about loans 1 to 3, so I have not 
considered further whether Sunny was irresponsible to agree those loans. However, I have 
kept the circumstances in mind when considering loans 4 to 6. 
I can see that when Mr H applied for loan 4, this was the fourth loan he had applied for in a 
period of around two weeks. If the loan was agreed, he would have borrowed £800 within 
that two-week period. At this point, I can see that Sunny did make some enquiries about Mr 
Hs financial circumstances. But when it considered his declared income and expenditure, I 
think Sunny should have seen that Mr H had little room for manoeuvre. I think it should have 
asked more questions about his finances and it would have been proportionate to undertake 
a full financial review at that stage. 
Had that review been undertaken, I think Sunny would have seen that Mr Hs essential credit 
commitments were greater than that which was declared to Sunny. I can see that Mr H had a 
number of unsecured credit commitments and a number of short-term high cost loans. Of 
that short-term debt, I can see that the repayment terms for one loan itself was over £1,000 
per month. Had Sunny undertaken a proportionate financial review, it would have seen that 
Mr H could not sustainably afford to repay this borrowing. For loans 5 and 6, Sunny says that Mr Hs declared expenditure had decreased. However, if 
Sunny had undertaken the full review of Mr Hs finances at loan 4, it would have appreciated 
that Mr Hs expenditure outweighed his income. Even with a marginal decrease in his 
expenditure, the loan repayments were still not sustainable. 
So, I agree with our adjudicator that Sunny should not have agreed to lend loans 4 to 6 and 
so I uphold the complaint to that extent. Sunny will need to take action to put things right. 
putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr H paid on loans 4 to 6; 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 4 to 6 from Mr Hs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Mr Hs complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited must put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman