DRN-3428151
The complaint
 A company which I refer to as T complains about HSBC UK Bank Plcs delay in returning a 
failed CHAPS payment to its account. 
In bringing this complaint T is represented by its director who I refer to as Mr P 
 
What happened
 The background to this case is familiar to the parties so I wont repeat it in detail. 
Briefly, in January 2021, T which is also a solicitors practice acted for a client in the sale and 
purchase of a property. 
On 14 January 2021, following the completion of the transaction, T sent £140,000 
representing the balance of the sale proceeds to its client. However, the following day, on 15 
January 2021 the receiving bank returned the funds to HSBC. Instead of returning the funds 
to Ts account, HSBC credited them to a suspense account. The funds were eventually 
returned to Ts account on 12 February 2021. 
 
Mr P said he and other members of Ts staff spent several days calling the bank to find out 
what had happened to the funds when in fact, his time could have been spent more 
productively for T. 
 
HSBC acknowledged that they delayed returning the funds to T and to compensate it for that 
delay the bank offered T £200. Mr P didnt think that was enough to put things right. He 
believed something in the order of £5,000 would be more appropriate to better reflect the 
costs and inconvenience caused by the banks delay. HSBC didnt agree and so T referred 
the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator said she had to determine the compensation that was properly due to T on 
the basis of the impact of HSBCs delay on T, the limited company. With that in mind, she 
didnt think that the banks error caused any loss of business to T. 
However, she wasnt persuaded the £200 HSBC had offered sufficiently compensated T for 
the impact. She believed £400 overall was more appropriate and so she recommended that 
HSBC pays T an additional £200 on top of the amount theyd already offered. 
HSBC accepted the investigators recommendation, but T did not. On its behalf Mr P said he 
didnt think the investigator had properly identified Ts complaint which had more to do with 
the banks delay returning the funds to T rather than any delay making the payment to its 
clients as the investigator suggested. More importantly, however, he believed that ultimately 
HSBCs delay cost T far more in time and effort than the £400 the investigator recommended 
and that an ombudsman should therefore review the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 It is accepted that there was delay in HSBC returning the funds to T. So, the outstanding 
issue for me to consider is really what is fair compensation to T as a result of this delay. 
Our investigator was of the view that the fair compensation should be £400. Mr P hasnt 
accepted it.   
Ive considered carefully Mr Ps submissions. I note that a key reason why Mr P believes a 
higher compensation is warranted is largely because of the cost of his own time spent when 
trying to secure the return of the funds  
I can see it took a little under four weeks from the time the receiving bank returned the funds 
to HSBC to the return of those funds to T. Mr P has explained that during that time he and 
other members of Ts staff made many phone calls to HSBC to chase things up. He says 
many e-mails were also sent to HSBC, who on 20 January 2021 promised the funds would 
be returned to Ts account within a couple of days. And according to Mr P, he expected the 
funds to have been returned by the latest 25 January 2021. But of course, a further 14 
working days went by before that happened. Mr P says that his hourly rate is £250 and so 
allowing for this, fair compensation ought to be a lot higher than has been recommended by 
the investigator.
. 
Mr P hasnt produced a list of the calls that were made and e-mails that were sent to HSBC. 
And nor have I seen details of the actual cost of those calls. Nonetheless, HSBCs internal 
records show the bank did receive phone calls from T - including on 21 January 2021, 2,5, 
and 10 February 2021 as well as e-mails on 28 and 29 January 2021.  
I am satisfied therefore that Mr P did spend time chasing HSBC for the return of his clients 
funds and by extension T was inconvenienced as a result. I also understand why Mr P  
considers the compensation ought to be a lot higher when aligned to his own hourly rate. 
However, in instances like this, when considering the time spent by a director trying to put 
right an error by a bank and how their company was inconvenienced as a result, we dont 
usually for example, look at that persons hourly rate. Instead well look at the overall impact 
the banks error had on the company. With that in mind I can see this matter took a little 
under four weeks to resolve. During that time, T pressed HSBC to resolve the matter and in 
response to Ts correspondence, the bank assured T they were trying to do so. The funds 
were returned within approximately 10 working days from Ts 29 January 2021 email. But, 
overall, it shouldnt have taken the time that it did, and so I can understand Mr Ps frustration
Putting things right
 Having carefully considered this, in all the circumstances of this complaint I am satisfied that 
a payment of £400 is fair and reasonable for the inconvenience HSBCs delay caused to T
My final decision
 My final conclusion is I uphold this complaint. Subject to deductions of any amounts already 
paid to T, I therefore require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay T £400 in full and final settlement of 
this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman