DRN-4064055
The complaint
Mr L complains about decisions of Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank 
(Tesco) to reject claims he made to them under Mastercards chargeback scheme and 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr L, and I have sympathy for the situation hes found himself in, but 
Im afraid I dont think Tescos have been unreasonable here. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, it might be 
possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says 
that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim 
against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
If Mr L was given a false statement of fact and if that false statement was a significant 
reason why he entered into the contract with the supplier to repair, service and MOT his car, 
I may think the agreement was misrepresented to him. In those circumstances Id think 
Tesco had been unreasonable to reject his claim. Mr L says that the supplier advertised 
under a well known name but that they didnt represent that company. I cant see that Tesco 
were provided with evidence that was the case, as the emails from the suppler bear their 
name. And, even if the supplier had advertised under a better known brand, I cant see that 
Mr L provided evidence of that to Tesco or that there was evidence the supplier werent 
entitled to do that. On that basis I dont think Tesco were unreasonable to reject a section 75 
claim that the agreement had been misrepresented; I think a court would be likely to come to 
the same conclusion.
I understand a significant thrust of Mr Ls claim is that he was scammed. He explained to 
Tesco that he thought hed been overcharged and that the work wasnt necessary. The price 
of the services provided were set out in the invoice, and I dont think Tesco were provided 
with sufficient evidence to demonstrate the services invoiced were not provided, or were 
provided for a higher fee than had been agreed. In those circumstances I dont think they 
were unreasonable to decide that a breach of contract hadnt been demonstrated and to 
reject that aspect of Mr Ls claim.
It may also have been possible for Tesco to have disputed the transactions through the 
chargeback scheme that is administered by Mastercard. But for them to be able to do that it 
would have been necessary for them to demonstrate a similar breach, and as there wasnt 
sufficient evidence of that I dont think they were wrong not to pursue such a claim.
Ultimately, Im afraid I dont think Tesco have done anything wrong here. I appreciate the 
significant efforts Mr L has put into this issue but on the evidence presented I dont think 
Tescos decisions were unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman