DRN-3155108
The complaint
Mr C and Ms V complain that Fairmead Insurance Limited declined their claim for storm 
damage under their home insurance policy. 
I will refer to Mr C for ease of reading in my decision.
What happened
Mr C contacted Fairmead in May 2021 to make a claim for a damage to his roof caused 
during a storm. He says that strong winds damaged the render on his chimney causing it to 
fall onto the roof tiles, resulting in further damage. 
Fairmead sent a surveyor to assess the damage. The surveyor concluded the damage was 
the result of wear and tear and a natural breakdown of materials. He reported that the 
chimney was in a poor state of repair. Fairmead declined the claim stating the roof had been 
deteriorating over some years and this wasnt something covered by the policy.
Mr C says he had a survey completed on the house in November 2019. This was before 
moving into the property in early 2020. He says the surveyor had found the roof to be in a 
good condition at this time. He says the surveyor Fairmead sent wasnt qualified to the 
same extent as the surveyor who conducted the survey in 2019. Mr C says the photo he has 
supplied, which was taken by his surveyor, shows the condition prior to the storm. He thinks 
this supports the roof was in a good condition and that Fairmead should accept his claim.
Fairmead maintained its decline decision. Mr C then referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. She decided not to uphold his complaint. 
She thought the report and evidence provided by Fairmeads surveyor was persuasive. This 
showed the damage was due to wear and tear over time, which wasnt covered under Mr Cs 
policy. 
Mr C disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. I understand this will be 
disappointing for him, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair.
My remit is to decide whether it was fair for Fairmead to decline Mr Cs claim for the reason it 
gave. Ive relied, in part, on the expert report and comments provided by both parties to 
decide whether Mr C has shown that an insured event occurred, and whether Fairmead has 
shown that it fairly relied on a valid exclusion.
There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether an event
can be classed as a storm. These are:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If any of the answers to the above questions are no then an insurer can generally,
reasonably decline a claim.
The policy terms define a storm as:
Wind speeds with gusts of at least 47mph/75kmh or torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 
25mm/one inch per hour or snow to a depth of at least one foot/30cm in 24 hours or hail of 
such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
I have checked the weather records around the time Mr C reported the damage occurred. 
Wind speeds up to 47mph were recorded at a weather station approximately 17 miles from 
his home. This meets the policy definition of a storm, which I note isnt disputed by 
Fairmead. So, the answer to question one is, yes. 
Mr C reported a section of render came loose from his chimney in the high winds. Roofing 
materials becoming dislodged or moved is damage typical of that caused by a storm. So, I 
think its reasonable that the answer to question two is also, yes. 
I have thought carefully about whether the storm conditions were the main cause of the 
damage. I have read the report from Fairmeads inspection of the damage. This says:
the render in in [sic] poor condition and has broken down. Some of the render shows 
evidence of previous repairs. The top section of render has also blown and is loose.     
And:
When the surveyor inspected the chimney, he observed that the damage was caused by 
Natural breakdown of materials. The chimney is in a poor state of repair and the surveyor 
would recommend that you source a local contractor to carry out routine maintenance.
I have looked at the photos that accompanied the report. These are taken from an elevated 
height and zoomed in, which provides clear images of the chimney and roof. The render 
attached to the chimney stack is of some age and showing numerous cracks. The top 
section is the most deteriorated, I understand this is where the section of render that fell-off, 
came from. The sides of the chimney stack visible in the photos have large vertical cracks 
running down their full length. I note the surveyors comment that evidence of previous 
repairs is visible, which is supported by the photos.  
In his submission to our service Mr C says the surveyor who inspected the house in 2019 
said, the roof was in good condition. He has forwarded an email he obtained from this 
surveyor along with two photos of the property. The email says:
I refer to our telephone conversation in connection with the above and the condition of the 
roof covering at the time of my inspection in November 2019. Please find attached photos of 
the roof at the taken [sic] at the time of the inspection and you can see the roof covering is in 
reasonable condition. 
The surveyor says the roof covering is in a reasonable as opposed to a good condition as Mr C had stated. But both descriptions are still clearly at odds with the poor condition 
reported by Fairmeads surveyor. 
I have looked at the two photos taken at the inspection in 2019. One is of the roof and 
chimney taken from ground level. This is taken from a position in front of Mr Cs neighbours 
house. The photo provides a partial view of the chimney stack and doesnt show much 
detail. Some signs of cracking to the top section of the render can still be seen. The other 
photo is taken from inside the roof space.
Having considered this evidence, Fairmeads surveyor provides a detailed view on the 
condition of the chimney stack. This is based on photos taken from an elevated view 
allowing a close inspection of the render. Mr Cs surveyor doesnt comment on the chimney 
stack or render specifically. In addition, the photo he took doesnt allow a clear view of its 
condition. Because of this I find Fairmeads view that the chimney is in a poor state of repair 
to be the more persuasive. We did ask Mr C if his survey included any additional photos or 
comments around the condition of the chimney stack. But he asked that I consider his 
complaint based on the information already received.  
I have read the policy terms to see if Fairmead fairly relied on a valid exclusion. The terms of 
the policy say:
This policy covered the costs of unexpected loss or damage. It does not cover:
Wear and tear
Maintenance costs such as refixing loose roof tiles, repointing brickwork or replacing 
guttering. 
Damage that happens over a period of time for example damp, rot and damage from 
vermin.
To make a successful claim you must keep your property in good repair and take all realistic 
and practical steps to prevent loss or damage.
I think Fairmeads view is reasonable that strong winds have highlighted a problem with the 
chimney, but the underlying cause is its poor state of repair. The policy terms are clear that 
wear and tear, and damage that happens over a period of time, are not covered.       
Mr C has also raised concerns that the surveyor employed by Fairmead isnt suitably 
qualified. He says the surveyor who carried out the building survey in 2019 is a chartered 
surveyor registered with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS). Whereas 
Fairmeads surveyor isnt. Mr C also says the surveyor lacked empathy and treated his 
misfortune in a cold manner. As well as parking his car in the wrong space. 
Fairmead says it values Mr Cs feedback, which it will use in conjunction with other customer 
feedback, to help improve the service it provides. It also offers the opportunity for Mr C to 
obtain a report from a suitably qualified third party, which it can then consider in relation to 
his claim. Fairmead says if this changes its decision it will look to reimburse Mr Cs costs in 
obtaining the report. 
Given Mr Cs concerns I think it was fair of Fairmead to offer the opportunity to obtain his 
own report. If this showed the damage wasnt due to the poor condition of the chimney, hed 
receive a refund of the report fee. I acknowledge Mr Cs comments, but I dont think hes 
shown Fairmeads surveyor wasnt suitably qualified to inspect and comment on the damage 
reported.
It was reasonable for the company to acknowledge Mr Cs concerns about the surveyor. And that it will use this information to improve the service it provides. But I dont think it 
reasonably needs to do more to address these points.           
I sympathise with Mr C and the need for him to arrange for repairs to his roof. But in 
considering all of this I think Fairmead behaved fairly in declining his claim for storm 
damage, in line with its policy terms. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore to resolve 
his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Ms V to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman