DRN-3169557
The complaint
Mr S complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited turned down a claim he made on his
personal private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S transferred to a personal private medical insurance policy on 1 December 2019. The
policy was set-up on a moratorium basis, which meant that AXA wouldnt cover any
conditions for which a policyholder had received medication, advice or treatment or had
symptoms of in the three years before the policy started. In Mr S case, the moratorium
period was between 1 December 2016 and 1 December 2019.
In July 2020, Mr S saw an ophthalmic surgeon who diagnosed cataracts and told Mr S that
hed need surgery. So Mr S called AXA to make a claim.
AXA turned down the claim. It considered that Mr S had experienced symptoms of cataracts
in the three years before hed taken out the policy. So it concluded that the cataracts were a
pre-existing condition and were therefore excluded from cover.
Mr S was unhappy with AXAs decision and he provided supporting medical evidence from
his treating surgeon. However, AXA maintained its stance and so Mr S asked us to look into
his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr S complaint should be upheld. She agreed that Mr S policy
had been set-up on a moratorium basis and she felt the terms made the fact that AXA
wouldnt cover pre-existing conditions clear. She considered the surgeons letters. But she
felt that based on what the surgeon had said, it was reasonable for AXA to conclude the
condition had been pre-existing.
Mr S disagreed. He maintained that he hadnt had cataracts in 2017 and that his eyes were
healthy with only expected age-related deterioration. He also provided a further letter from
the surgeon in support of his claim, which we sent to AXA to consider. It let us know that its
position remained unchanged, given the earlier medical evidence which had been provided
to it at the outset.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 October 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I thought it was fair for AXA to turn down Mr S claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mr S policy and the available evidence to decide whether AXA treated him fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr S policy, as these form the basis of his
contract with AXA. I can see from the policy schedule that Mr S policy was set-up on a
moratorium basis and that he didnt include cover for any existing medical conditions. The
terms of Mr S contract set out that AXA wont pay for pre-existing conditions. AXAs defined
what it means by this term. The policy says:
Pre-existing condition  any disease, illness or injury for which: you have received
medication, advice or treatment; or you have experienced symptoms: whether the
condition has been diagnosed or not in the three years before the start of your cover.
(Bold is my emphasis).
In my view, the policy terms make it clear that AXA wont cover conditions which were pre-
existing during the three years before the policy started, even if that condition hadnt been
diagnosed and treatment hadnt been required. AXA considers that Mr S cataracts fall within
the scope of this definition and that theyre therefore excluded from cover. So Ive thought
carefully about all of the available evidence to decide whether that was a fair conclusion for
AXA to draw.
Firstly, I listened to Mr S call to AXA in July 2020, when he got in touch to let it know that he
needed cataract surgery. Mr S told the call handler that the surgeon had noted that he had
cataracts three years ago, which had got worse. He mentioned that the surgeon hadnt
thought his cataracts were bad enough to deal with at that point. And that at the time, the
cataracts were not bad enough to be operated on. So by Mr S own account, it seemed that
the surgeon had previously found at least some evidence of cataracts prior to the start date
of the policy.
Next, I turned to the letters Mr S surgeon sent to AXA. The first letter Ive seen dated
September 2017 said: I was glad to find his eyes were white and quiet with early nuclear
sclerotic lens change only. AXA has linked these lens changes to early symptoms of
cataracts  as the symptoms refer to cloudiness, hardening and yellowing of the central
region of the lens.
The surgeons next letter was dated 8 July 2020 and said: He was noted to have cataracts
when I saw him three years ago. Given the date of the letter, this would put a finding of
cataracts in and around 2017  which would fall within the moratorium period. The letter
continued I do feel that Mr (S) now has significant enough cataract that he would benefit
from surgery. On the basis of this letter, I think it was fair for AXA to conclude that Mr S
cataracts were a pre-existing condition.
Subsequently, the surgeon wrote a further letter in support of Mr S claim. She said:
I did not mean to imply that you had significant cataracts at all 3 years ago, I was merely
pointing out that cataracts had developed from mild nuclear sclerotic change (consistent with
your age) since the previous visitI hope it is therefore clear that you had excellent vision 3
years ago and that significant cataract has certainly developed since then.
The surgeon followed this up with a further letter dated 10 August 2020. She said: I
mentioned that there was early nuclear sclerotic change onlyI certainly did not suggest at
the time that it was a significant cataractI do not feel that Mr (S) had any degree of
significant cataract whatever in 2017My use of the term cataract has allowed you to
assume that his current condition was pre-existing in 2017, which was not at all the case.
Ive thought very carefully about this evidence. 
While I acknowledge that the surgeon states clearly that Mr S didnt have significant 
cataracts in 2017, she doesnt say that Mr S didnt have any degree of cataract at all. AXA 
has linked the symptoms of early nuclear sclerotic changes with cataract, given their 
similarity of symptoms and known progression of nuclear sclerotic changes to cataracts. So 
based on this medical evidence too, I think it was fair for AXA to find that Mr S was 
experiencing early symptoms of cataracts in the three years before he took out the policy.Since our investigator issued her assessment, Mr S has sent us a further letter from the
surgeon. This letter is dated 14 July 2021. This includes the following:
In that letter I mentioned that he had early nuclear sclerotic lens change only. I should
explain that nuclear sclerotic lens change begins in early to middle age and is the reason for
example that most adults start to need reading glasses at age 40 or 45. No-one would
suggest that very early or early nuclear sclerotic lens change was an actual cataract.
Mr (S) came back to see me three years later in the middle of 2020 with difficulty reading
and seeing and at that time I found significant cataract. This was an entirely different and
new presentation of cataract, rather than normal age appropriate findings that had been
present three years previously.
Again, Ive considered the surgeons view carefully, as I appreciate shes had the opportunity
to examine Mr S. AXA doesnt think this letter is persuasive evidence that Mr S didnt have
cataracts or cataract symptoms in the three years before the policy started. It considers that
the original medical evidence the surgeon provided mirrored what Mr S had told it at the
outset and that the subsequent evidence is contradictory.
Based on the totality of the evidence, including Mr S first call of July 2020 when he told AXA
that the surgeon had previously found cataracts, together with the first letter when the
surgeon mentioned that shed noted cataracts three years ago, I dont think this is an
unreasonable position for AXA to take. I say that because it seems Mr S had had a
discussion with the surgeon prior to his call to AXA. It seems the first letter she wrote in July
2020 set out the nature of the consultation and is likely an accurate record of what had been
discussed. The use of the word noted in that letter also suggest that the fact Mr S was
experiencing symptoms of cataracts in 2017 had been recorded then and this information
was duly shared with Mr S in July 2020.I dont think its unfair then for AXA to place more
weight on contemporaneous evidence rather than information provided over a year after the
consultation.
Ive noticed too that the surgeon consistently referred to Mr S not having significant
cataracts until July 2020. I dont find it was unreasonable then for AXA to conclude that even
if Mr S didnt have significant cataracts until July 2020, the surgeon had found at least
symptoms of optical changes that could result in cataracts. This too would be excluded by
the terms of the policy. And I also dont find it was unfair for AXA to link the nuclear sclerotic
changes to the significant cataracts which Mr S ultimately developed, given the clear
similarities of symptoms.
I have noted that the surgeon said: My use of the term cataract has allowed you to assume
that his current condition was pre-existing in 2017, which was not at all the case. It isnt at all
clear to me though that the surgeon has seen a copy of the contract terms or is aware of the
wide scope of the definition of a pre-existing condition. As Ive set out above, while Mr S
wasnt noted to have significant cataracts prior to July 2020, this isnt the relevant definition. I
havent seen any medical evidence which states that early nuclear sclerotic changes arent
linked to or arent an early symptom of cataract. And as AXA has drawn a link between the
two conditions, Im persuaded its fair for it to conclude that Mr S was at least experiencing
symptoms of cataracts during the moratorium period.
Its open to Mr S to obtain further medical evidence from his surgeon on this point if he
wishes to do so. Hed need to submit that to AXA though in order for it to assess the new
evidence before we could potentially consider that as a new and separate complaint.
Overall then, based on all of the evidence before me, I currently think it was fair and
reasonable for AXA to turn down Mr S claim.I asked both parties to send me any further evidence they wanted me to consider.
AXA said its only comment was that the original presentation set out in the original clinic 
letters provided the most accurate information.
Mr S said that both he and his consultant felt my provisional decision was unfair. But he had 
no further comments to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further substantive evidence or comments for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional decision. 
So while Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, my final decision is the same as my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman