DRN-2790502
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L took out a mortgage in March 1992 with Nationwide Building Society and 
were sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy at the same time. They 
say they were mis-sold this type of cover because they werent given a choice about taking 
it out. 
What happened
The policy, which included cover for accident, sickness and unemployment, was taken out 
on a joint basis by Mr and Mrs L. The initial monthly premium was around £21 which would 
have provided a benefit of around £320 in the event of a successful claim on the policy. 
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Mr and Mrs L that their 
complaint is unlikely to be upheld. Theyve disagreed and asked for it to be passed for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Ive seen that Mr and Mrs L say they bought the PPI at a meeting. But from what I know 
about the sale, Nationwide didnt provide a personalised recommendation to Mr and Mrs L 
about the PPI. Yet it still had to give them information about the cover that was clear enough 
for them to make an informed choice.
The central point of Mr and Mrs Ls complaint is that they werent given a choice about 
having the PPI. However, this sale happened around 29 years ago now and the PPI was 
closed quite some time ago too, in April 2003. Its therefore no surprise we no longer have 
the physical records showing that Mr and Mrs L agreed to buy this PPI as businesses arent 
required to keep records indefinitely. Im also mindful that recollections of events can be 
difficult after so long.
However, given the many cases weve seen like this one, I can use my knowledge and 
experience to assess what is more likely to have happened. We know PPI was definitely 
added; theres no dispute about that. Its therefore highly likely that Mr and Mrs L would 
have been sent the policy details by the insurers. This would have included the policy 
schedule and information about what was covered. Ive seen examples, from the early 
1990s, where the insurers sent through this type of information to consumers who had 
bought this type of Nationwide PPI cover. It contained the names of those insured and the 
cost.
I accept this is all a long time ago now. But I need to make a decision of what is more 
likely to have happened. And given my experience of these particular sales at this 
particular time, I think Nationwide would have obtained the necessary consent. I also think 
Mr and Mrs L would have been sent quite a lot of paperwork about the PPI they took out, 
making them aware they had a PPI policy set up with their mortgage.
Obviously I cant say after such a long time that Mr and Mrs L were told everything they 
ought to have been told. But they both appear to have been eligible for the cover and not 
caught by any of the main exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. The price 
seems to me to be comparable with similar policies from around that time period and Ive 
seen nothing that suggests it wasnt affordable for them.
Mr L said he already had sickness protection already with his job, whilst both he and Mrs L 
also had some savings they could fall back on. I cant know precisely why they opted for 
the PPI  and as Ive said, it was their choice - but their mortgage was a long-term and 
important commitment, secured against their home. The consequences of not being able 
to keep up the mortgage payments therefor could have been serious. In the event of a 
successful claim, the cover was payable for up to 24 months. This would have been in 
addition to  and much longer than  the benefits Mr L already enjoyed and would avoid 
the need to have to dig into their savings. 
Overall, I think that Mr and Mrs L probably engaged in some discussions about this sale and 
I think what they bought was in any event of use to them. Im very sorry to have to disappoint 
them but based on what Ive seen this isnt a complaint Im able to uphold. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. And I dont direct Nationwide Building Society to do 
anything
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman