DRN-1850524
The complaint
Mr J complains about the early repayment charge (ERC) that he incurred when he repaid his 
mortgage with Marsden Building Society. Mr J feels the amount of the charge was excessive 
when he only had a couple of months left on his interest rate product.
Mr J would like Marsden to pay back the difference between the ERC he paid and the 
remaining instalments of the mortgage had he decided to keep the loan running.
What happened
In January 2017 Mr J took out a new interest rate product on his mortgage with Marsden 
Building Society. The product was due to expire on 31 March 2019. 
On 1 February 2019 Mr J repaid the mortgage. Mr J was disappointed that the ERC of 
around £970 was so high. Mr Js said he knew there was an ERC to pay, but he thought the 
amount was unfairly high because his monthly repayments were only around £250 per 
month. He questioned how it could be fair that he had two months left of his interest rate 
product, and yet the ERC applied equated to nearly four months of payments. Mr J felt that 
Marsden should have taken his loyalty into account when working out the ERC and that it 
should have calculated a bespoke ERC for him.
Mr J complained and Marsden gave its final response on 2 April 2019. It didnt uphold Mr Js 
complaint. Mr J brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into what had 
happened but he didnt think Marsden had made a mistake in the way it applied the ERC. 
Mr J asked that an ombudsman reach a final decision about his complaint. Mr J expressed 
concern that mortgage regulation allowed Marsden to apply an ERC that was higher than 
what he would have paid if hed kept the mortgage running until the interest rate product 
expired.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I see the argument that Mr J is making, and why he feels the level of ERC seemed unfairly 
high. Especially when he considered how much he was paying towards the mortgage each 
month and the fact he was only two payments away from the end of the interest rate product. 
Ive looked at the rate switch offer document provided to Mr J dated 25 January 2017 to see 
how Marsden said the ERC would work when Mr J took out the interest rate deal. The 
mortgage offer sets out the terms of a discount rate of 3.91% less than Marsdens variable 
rate. 
In section 10 of the mortgage offer it sets out what happens if Mr J decides he doesnt want 
the mortgage anymore. Theres a table that sets out that if you repay or switch to another 
mortgage product prior to 31 March 2019 early repayment charges will be payable. The 
table clearly sets out that if repayment is made before 31 March 2019 then 2% of the capital 
balance is due and what that equated to at the time the offer was made.
Mr J hasnt said that he didnt know there was an ERC if he paid the mortgage early, or that 
it wasnt made reasonably clear to him how it worked at the point he took out the rate in 
2017. His complaint is that he would have liked Marsden to reduce the amount, considering 
the loyalty hed shown as a mortgage customer, low prevailing interest rates and how near 
he was to the end of his products term. 
Ive thought further about the amount of the ERC that was applied. In very simple terms, 
when a lender offers an interest rate product, both the lender and borrower are tied in to the 
product for a fixed term. Marsden has to raise the funds it lends out from its savers. It has to 
pay for those funds, including paying interest. Marsden relies on income from borrowers 
repaying the mortgages to cover the costs of its funding. It budgets for that income based on 
the length and level of interest rates. If the lending is repaid early, it loses future interest 
income  and often incurs further costs in paying back money it has raised early.
So when borrowers repay early, the lender wont receive the income it was anticipating, and 
needs to receive to pay its savers. It can insure against that in various ways, but theres a 
cost either to having the borrowing end early  or to protect against those costs. As a result, 
mortgages with interest rate deals not just with Marsden, but across the industry  include a 
clause in the mortgage agreement allowing for an ERC. An ERC isnt a penalty  which has 
a strict meaning in law (a charge levied for breaching a contract). Repaying a mortgage early 
(in full or in part) isnt a breach of the contract, its something specifically allowed for, so long 
as the borrower pays the charge for doing so.
The rules of mortgage regulation include provisions about ERCs. In summary, they say that 
an ERC must be able to be expressed as a cash value and must be a reasonable pre-
estimate of the costs resulting from early termination of the mortgage. Subject to that, theres 
no restriction on how a lender calculates its ERC. And, crucially, a lender is allowed to 
estimate the risk and costs of early termination across a group of mortgages; it doesnt have 
to do so on an individual basis. Im satisfied that Marsden has met the regulatory 
requirements in this case and that there was no requirement for it to provide a bespoke ERC 
for Mr Js mortgage when he chose to settle it.
Ive found that Mr Js ERC was applied in line with the terms and conditions of his mortgage 
product. And I dont think its unreasonable that Marsden wouldnt offer to reduce the ERC 
when Mr J decided to repay his mortgage before his product ended. 
I can see Mr Js frustration that the amount he ended up paying on the ERC was more than 
the mortgage payments he would have made if he left the mortgage in place for another 
couple of months. But it was Mr Js decision to repay the mortgage when he did, and he 
decided to do this in the knowledge of the ERC that would be payable.
I know Mr J will be disappointed by my decision, but I dont find that Marsden has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2020.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman