DRN-3873217
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the charges raised by AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited
(AA) and how a claim she made was recorded under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2021 a dog cage lifted by strong winds from a neighbours property, was blown
into Mrs Ds car. It caused damage to the passenger side wing as well as the bonnet and
windscreen wipers.
Mrs D made a claim to AA. It instructed a repairer. Unfortunately, the repairer rejected the
work. Because of the delay this caused, AA provided a hire vehicle whilst another repairer
was appointed. It says the policy only provides a replacement car when repairs are
underway  but in these circumstances it decided to arrange a hire vehicle.
Due to an error AA didnt process a request for another repairer until 4 November 2021. It
obtained an estimate for the repairs a week later and contacted Mrs D.
Mrs Ds neighbour spoke to her and offered to pay for the repairs. Because of this, as well
the delays and poor communication in AAs handling, she decided to withdraw her claim.
AA told Mrs D she would need to pay for the hire car costs or this incident would be recorded
as a fault claim against her. It advised her that if she paid the claim it would be changed to
non-fault. Mrs D complained to AA, but it maintained its decision, so she referred her
complaint to our service. AA subsequently offered to waive the hire car fees, change how the
claim was recorded to show as non-fault and offered £300 compensation for the
inconvenience and distress it caused.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Ds complaint but thought the offer AA had made was fair, so he
didnt ask it to do anymore.
Mrs D asked for £500 compensation. She also didnt think there should be any claim
recorded against her. And says that when the car was recovered the operator had to ask
what the damage was  as AA hadnt informed it. Our investigator didnt change his view.
Because of this Mrs D asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mrs Ds complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My remit here is to consider whether AA handled Mrs Ds claim reasonably, and if its records
fairly reflect what happened. Having considered the evidence, I dont think it treated Mrs D
fairly on either of these points. Let me explain.
AA accepted Mrs Ds claim for the damage caused to her car, but there was a delay in
appointing a repairer. This is because the first garage it appointed rejected the work.
According to AAs records human error was to blame for the delay in appointing a new
repairer. This delayed progression of the claim by about a week.
I can see from the notes that Mrs D had to prompt AA for updates. I also note her comments
that when her car was collected the repairer had to ask for clarification of what repairs were
needed. I take her point that communication appears to have been lacking between AA and
its appointed repairer. I can see that AA acknowledges this point in the offer it made after the
complaint was referred to our service.
In its initial response to Mrs Ds complaint AA says a hire car shouldnt have been offered, as
her car was driveable. Mrs D disputes this as she says the windscreen wipers were
damaged, and its illegal to drive a car in this condition.
Ive looked online at the government guidance about windscreen wipers. This says:
Every vehicle fitted with a windscreen must have one or more efficient automatic
windscreen wipers, unless the driver can obtain an adequate view of the road to the front
without looking through the windscreen.
From Mrs Ds testimony her car didnt meet this requirement because of the damage caused
to her windscreen wipers. I havent seen evidence to show this wasnt the case. Mrs D also
points out that effective windscreen wipers are a requirement to pass an MOT test. From
looking at the government website online, I can see that this is accurate. So, I dont think AA
was correct to suggest Mrs Ds car was driveable.
In its offer of resolution AA says it will pay £300 compensation for the inconvenience and
distress this matter has caused Mrs D. Ive thought about the impact the delays and poor
claim handling had on her. Ive also listened to the call recordings provided. I didnt identify
inappropriate or rude behaviour on AAs call handlers part. But its clear this was a
distressing experience for Mrs D, given the poor standard of communication and delays she
experienced, in addition to the inaccurate information provided. Because of this I think
compensation is appropriate. But Im satisfied £300 is fair in the circumstances described.
Ive also thought about Mrs Ds view that no claim should be recorded against her in relation
to this matter. Having considered this point, I dont think its correct for the claim to be
recorded as non-fault in these circumstances. A claim was made, but this was withdrawn by
Mrs D. I dont think its reasonable for any costs to be associated to the claim, as the reason
it was withdrawn is due to AAs poor handling. I note AA confirms in its offer that no costs will
show against the claim, which I think is fair. But I think it should also confirm that the claim is
recorded as closed having been withdrawn.
In summary I dont think AA treated Mrs D fairly in its handling of her claim. Because of the
delays and poor communication, it should provide compensation. But I think the £300 it
offered is fair. I dont think it recorded the claim correctly, and it should amend this to show
the claim was withdrawn with no associated costs.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint and AA Underwriting Insurance Company 
Limited should:pay Mrs D £300 compensation if it hasnt already; and
confirm the claim is recorded as withdrawn with no associated costs.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
AA didnt respond with any further comments or information for me to consider. 
Mrs D responded to say AA provided a courtesy car, not because of a delay in appointing a 
repairer but because its policy terms say a courtesy car is provided if the insured vehicle is 
not roadworthy. She also asks whether a withdrawn claim showing no claim costs will have 
an impact on future premiums. Mrs D says her premiums have increased and asks if this will 
be refunded once she has spoken to her insurance provider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mrs Ds comments regarding the courtesy car and the reason this was 
provided. I dont dispute what she says, but I dont think this warrants a change to my 
decision. 
Insurers calculate premiums differently. But generally speaking, all insurers will want to 
consider any claims and/or incidents involving the insured vehicle. Even if there is no cost 
incurred this may still form part of the risk assessment. 
In the circumstances described here I think its fair that AA records the claim as withdrawn 
with no associated costs. This accurately reflects the situation. Mrs D can discuss this point 
with her current insurer in order for it to provide any refunds owing. But I dont think AA is 
responsible for any impact on Mrs Ds future insurance premiums once it has amended its 
recording of this claim. 
Having considered these points Im satisfied that the resolution set out in my provisional 
decision is fair. Im not persuaded that I need to make a change.. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Ds 
complaint. AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited should:
pay Mrs D £300 compensation if it hasnt already; and
confirm the claim is recorded as withdrawn with no associated costs
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman