DRN-1742396
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc handled a medical expenses 
and curtailment claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K has a travel insurance policy as a benefit of his packaged bank account. The policy 
covers Mr K, his wife and their young son (Master K). Whilst Ill also refer to Mrs Ks mother 
she was not covered under this policy. 
Mrs K, Master K and Mrs Ks mother were on holiday abroad. Unfortunately, Master K hurt 
his finger and needed treatment. Later on in the trip, he was diagnosed with typhoid. Mrs K, 
her mother and Master K rearranged their flights and returned to the UK early so that Master 
K could recover.
Mr and Mrs K made a claim on their travel insurance policy. AXA told Mr K hed need to get 
a letter from a medical professional showing itd been medically necessary for Master K to 
come home early. Mr K provided a letter from the treating doctor which confirmed the need 
for Master K to return to the UK. He also sent AXA receipts for the cost of changing Mrs and 
Master Ks flights; some handwritten information about Master Ks treatment and handwritten 
receipts for the taxi costs theyd paid so Master K could get to the doctor.
AXA asked Mr and Mrs K for more detailed receipts breaking down the medical costs theyd 
incurred. They were also asked to provide information about Mrs Ks mothers flights, 
although AXA later confirmed she wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr and Mrs K werent happy theyd been asked for additional information and they 
complained. They made the point that Mrs and Master K had travelled to a developing nation 
and didnt provide detailed receipts. They explained when Mr K had first made the claim, 
hed been told all he needed to provide was a letter confirming the necessity to curtail. They 
said Mr K had been given misinformation and had spent a long time trying to deal with the 
claim. 
And Mr K said he felt one of the claims handlers hed spoken to had discriminated against 
him on the grounds of ethnicity. Thats because shed told Mr K that AXA dealt with claims 
from a neighbouring country hundreds of times each day and were able to get receipts. He 
asked us to look into the complaint after AXA didnt send a final response letter within the 
regulators deadline. 
AXA told us it wouldve looked to offer Mr and Mrs K compensation for some of the service 
theyd received if itd sent a final response to their complaint. It acknowledged the call wait 
times were too long; that it couldve been more proactive in handling the claim and that Mr K 
had been misinformed about needing to resend information. 
It told us that itd searched its records and couldnt find copies of the call between Mr K and 
its claims handler which contained the conversation Mr K was unhappy about. So it hadnt 
considered whether she was discriminatory towards Mr K  but it was happy for us to do so. 
Mr and Mrs K did have copies of the calls though, as Mr K had made a Data Subject Access 
request during the claim process. They felt AXA was trying to cover-up its employees 
actions.
Our investigator got in touch with AXA to mediate a settlement, as he felt Mr and Mrs K had 
provided enough evidence to demonstrate they had a valid curtailment claim. AXA agreed to 
cover the cost of the flight amendments for Mrs and Master K (£420); £50 towards the 
unreceipted taxi costs and £54.70 for two visits to the doctor which were evidenced by the 
date and cost. It wasnt prepared to meet the remaining parts of the claim without further 
supporting evidence.
The investigator thought the settlement offer was fair. He thought AXA was reasonably 
entitled to more detailed information about the remaining medical costs Mr and Mrs K had 
claimed for. He understood why Mr and Mrs K had thought the claims process was 
frustrating and he noted AXA accepted it couldve offered better service. So he suggested 
AXA pay Mr and Mrs K £50 compensation for this element of their complaint. He 
recommended that AXA should consider the cost of refunding any telephone calls Mr and 
Mrs K made which it felt was unnecessary if they provided a bill. 
The investigator also listened into the calls between Mr K and AXAs claim handler. He 
explained we couldnt determine whether AXA had discriminated against Mr K as a matter of 
law. Thats because its for the courts to determine. But he explained we could take into 
account the Equality Act 2010 when deciding if AXA acted fairly and reasonably. He felt the 
call handler couldve handled the call better and that she couldve worded things better. He 
noted shed apologised during the call. He also acknowledged AXA saying it couldnt locate 
the calls mustve caused further upset to Mr and Mrs K. So he felt compensation of £50 for 
this specific point was appropriate.
Mr and Mrs K disagreed. They didnt think £50 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience theyd suffered as a result of the claims handlers comments was enough. 
They referred to a 2004 publication from this service whichd awarded compensation of £750 
for discrimination. They felt Mr K had suffered discriminatory comments because of his 
ethnicity and that AXA had failed to take their complaint about this seriously. They asked for 
an ombudsman to review the complaint and, in particular, the compensation for racial 
discrimination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that AXAs offer of settlement, together with a total payment of 
£100 for Mr and Mrs Ks distress and inconvenience is fair. Ill explain why.
Is the claim settlement fair?
Mr and Mrs K havent told us whether or not theyre happy with AXAs offer of settlement for 
the claim, or if theyre not, which parts theyre unhappy with. AXA has agreed to cover the 
evidenced flight amendment costs (£420); two medical appointments where it knows the 
dates and costs and £50 towards the unreceipted taxi costs. It hasnt agreed to cover the 
remaining parts of Mr and Mrs Ks claim which it doesnt have detailed receipts or evidence 
of costs for.
The Claims Conditions section of the policy says: Youmust supply at your own expense 
all information, evidence, details of household insurance and medical certificates as required 
by us. It continues: We may refuse to reimburse you for any expenses for which you cannot 
provide receipts or bills.Its for Mr and Mrs K to show they have a valid claim. And I think the policy makes it clear 
that AXA requires evidence to support what a policyholders claiming for. I appreciate Mr and 
Mrs K felt the first claims handler Mr K spoke to said theyd only need a letter from a medical 
professional to say curtailment was medically necessary for their claim to be met. But AXA 
says the call handler did let Mr K know itd likely need to see receipts before the claim could 
be paid.
Mr and Mrs K have been able to substantiate much of their claim  the flight costs and some 
of the medical bills. AXA accepted Mrs K wouldve needed to use taxis to take Master K for 
treatment and has offered the majority of these costs.
But while Mr and Mrs K have provided other information in support of their claim, I dont think 
this is enough to substantiate their remaining expenses. Thats because the information 
doesnt say what it relates to or whether any charges were attached. So I think it was fair for 
AXA to limit its offer for the medical bills to the two visits it has clear evidence for. And I now 
direct AXA to settle Mr and Mrs Ks claim in line with its offer if it hasnt done so already, 
together with interest at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date it received the information 
it needed to offer settlement until the date of settlement. 
Its open to Mr and Mrs K to provide further evidence to AXA to support the outstanding 
amounts if they choose to do so.
AXAs handling of the claim
AXA accepts there were failings in the way it handled Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. It 
acknowledges there were unacceptable call wait times; that Mr K was told to send it 
unnecessary information and that it couldve been more proactive in its handling of the claim. 
I can see why Mr and Mrs K mightve assumed they were being told to also claim for Mrs Ks 
mothers flight costs, even though the policy didnt cover her. 
Its also clear that AXA didnt provide Mr and Mrs K with a final response letter which dealt 
with their concerns within the regulators timescale of 40 days, although it did appropriately 
give referral rights to our service at that point.
I do think AXA let Mr and Mrs K down in the way it handled their claim and so I think its 
appropriate for it to pay them some compensation to recognise those failings. I agree with 
the investigator that £50 is a fair sum here.
Mr and Mrs K feel they made long phone calls and AXA has acknowledged some calls were 
lengthy. I agree it would be reasonable for Mr and Mrs K to send their phone bill to AXA so it 
can consider refunding any calls it identifies as being unnecessary.
The call handlers comments
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs K that Ive carefully listened to the calls between Mr K and 
AXAs claims handler. Its clear Mr K was upset by the call handlers comments and that he 
feels she was unlawfully discriminating against his ethnicity.
As the investigator explained, it isnt our role to decide whether a financial business has 
acted unlawfully or not. Thats for the courts to decide. My role is to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. In doing that though, I do have to take a number of 
things into account  including relevant law and what we consider to be good industry 
practice at the time. So although its for the courts to decide if AXA has breached the Equality Act; I must consider the Equality Act 2010 in deciding whats fair and reasonable if I 
think its relevant.
During the call, Mr K explained why it was difficult to get detailed receipts. The call handler 
stated that AXA deals with claims from a neighbouring country hundreds of times each day 
and receipts are provided. I appreciate Mr and Mrs K feel that this was a discriminatory 
comment because theyre not from the neighbouring country and they feel the comment 
implied the country Mrs K had travelled to should be more like its neighbour.
Ive also listened to the follow-up call when Mr K let the claims handler know hed been upset 
by her comments. I think she tried to explain what shed meant  that AXA deals with claims 
from around the world and is able to get receipts  but I dont think this was worded well. 
And I think the initial comment was unhelpful. Its clearly, and understandably caused Mr and 
Mrs K unnecessary distress.
So I think compensation for this distress is appropriate. Like the investigator, £50 feels fair in 
these particular circumstances, taken together with the call handlers apology for the way her 
comments made Mr K feel. I appreciate Mr and Mrs K feel this doesnt go far enough to 
recognise their distress, but Im satisfied this award is reasonable and adequately reflects 
the distress and inconvenience caused to them.
As Ive explained, the policy terms do say that in the absence of receipts or evidence, AXA 
may not pay claims. So I dont think AXA has acted unfairly or unreasonably by relying on 
the policy terms in this case. And based on everything Ive seen, I dont think Mr and Mrs Ks 
ethnicity played a part in AXAs request for them to provide evidence in support of their 
claim.
Mr and Mrs K have referred to a past publication of our service where a financial business 
had offered a consumer a substantial amount of compensation. Each case is considered on 
its own merits and we look at the individual circumstances of that complaint. Its clear the 
circumstances in that case were very different and it appears the business itself made the 
compensation offer. So this publication hasnt led me to think any more compensation 
should be awarded.
Its unfortunate AXA couldnt find copies of these calls when it was reviewing Mr and Mrs Ks 
complaint. I can see from its notes though that the complaint handler did complete a search 
for the calls and asked for another department to try and find them too. It doesnt seem to 
me that it was trying to cover anything up or not take Mr and Mrs Ks complaint seriously. Its 
told us its flagged up the issue to its IT department to investigate  which I think is a 
proportionate response.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ks 
complaint.
I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
- Settle Mr and Mrs Ks claim for Mrs and Master Ks flight amendments; two medical 
bills and £50 towards their taxi fees if it hasnt already;
- Add interest of 8% simple per annum to this settlement from the date settlement 
shouldve been paid until the date AXA pays it;
- Pay Mr and Mrs K total compensation of £100 for the distress and inconvenience its 
handling of the claim caused them.- Consider reimbursing Mr and Mrs K for any phone calls it feels were unnecessary or 
unnecessarily lengthy upon Mr and Mrs K sending it a copy of their phone bill.
AXA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we
tell it Mr and Mrs K accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year
simple.
*If AXA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs K how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs K a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman