DRN-2539538
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained that Covea Insurance plc unfairly turned down a claim on
their commercial vehicle insurance. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs G claimed on their policy after their van was stolen. Covea initially said the van
would be written off due to the damage. The van was later recovered but Covea turned down
the claim as it said Mr G hadnt taken reasonable care to prevent the van being stolen. This
was because it said Mr G noticed hed dropped the keys near the van and continued to
deliver parcels around the back of the house. Mr G said that isnt what happened. He said
hed only noticed the keys were missing while at the back of the house.
As Covea refused to pay Mr and Mrs Gs claim, they brought their complaint to us. Our
investigator looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She thought Mr G had
taken reasonable care and so thought Covea should pay the claim.
Covea disagreed. It said Mr G hadnt taken reasonable care and had also tried to change his
account of what happened, in order for the claim to succeed.
Mr and Mrs G told us that theyd had their van repaired themselves and so would withdraw
their claim as long as their no claims discount wasnt affected. Covea said as it had needed
to pay storage and recovery costs there was a cost to the claim, even if it didnt pay for
repairs. Covea refused to remove the claim marker or to allow Mr and Mrs Gs NCD unless it
was reimbursed for the storage costs. Covea said it had already done more than it needed to
by removing the salvage marker as the van hadnt been written off. Covea asked for an
ombudsmans decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 29 December 2020. In that decision I 
said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Gs policy say the policyholder needs to take
reasonable precautions to ensure the vehicle is protected against loss or damage.
Mr G and Covea disagree about what point Mr G noticed hed dropped the keys. Im not
going to make a finding on which of these I think it more likely because I dont think it matters
to the outcome of my decision. I say that because even if Mr G noticed hed dropped the
keys nearer the van, Id need to be persuaded that this amounted to a lack of reasonable
care.
When deciding whether someone has taken reasonable care, we think its fair and
reasonable to consider whether theyve acted recklessly. By that I mean they recognised
there was a risk and didnt take any action to prevent that risk.
In this case I dont think Mr G recognised that there was a risk to someone stealing his van
in the short amount of time it would take him to deliver the parcels. Ive taken account that
the road the van was stolen from looks to be a residential street, rather than a main road,
and the houses arent set far back from the road. I think its unlikely that Mr G would have left
his keys on the floor near his van if hed thought they were likely to be stolen, particularly as
he needed his van for work. So, I dont think its fair and reasonable for Covea to rely on the
term it has to turn down Mr and Mrs Gs claim.
Ive considered Coveas point that Mr G has changed his account of when he noticed hed
dropped the keys. Mr G says he hasnt changed his account, it was rather the way what hed
said had been interpreted. However, even if Mr G did change his account that doesnt make
a difference. Thats because as I think Covea should have paid the claim, based on the
circumstances it believes to be correct, I dont think any change in account would be material
to whether the claim should have been paid.
I therefore need to put Mr and Mrs G back in the position theyd have been in if Covea hadnt
turned down the claim. Mr and Mrs G have said they would have claimed and likely kept the
salvage. So, I intend to find that the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for
Covea to settle the claim by writing off the van, as it intended, and pay Mr and Mrs G the
market value of the van at the time of the theft. Covea should let me know the vans salvage
value so Mr and Mrs G can decide if theyd like to keep it. The claim will mean Covea will be
able to record that the van has been written-off.
Due to the time Mr and Mrs G have been without the money, I intend to find that Covea
should add interest to the settlement at a rate of 8% simple per year, calculated from the
date of the theft to the date it makes payment.
I dont intend to make any further award for the new van Mr and Mrs G bought, as they
bought that before Covea turned down the claim.
Mr G accepted my decision but queried whether he would also be paid for the belongings 
that were in the van at the time it was stolen. He also queried why Covea kept his van for so 
long. 
Covea didnt agree. It maintained that Mr G hadnt taken reasonable care and had changed 
his story when he realised his claim might not be paid. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Coveas response, but it hasnt raised any new points that have persuaded 
me to depart from my provisional decision. And I dont intend to repeat the reasons I set out 
in my provisional decision above. I therefore remain satisfied that the fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint is for Covea to settle Mr and Mrs Gs claim by writing off the van 
and paying them the market value at the time of the theft.
As I think Covea should pay the claim for the van, I think the fair and reasonable outcome 
would be for Covea to reconsider Mr and Mrs Gs claim for the belongings, on the basis that 
the claim for the van is valid. 
Mr and Mrs G have also asked why Covea kept the van for so long. Covea said it was 
investigating the claim and had placed a total loss marker on it. I think it would have been 
helpful for Covea to have discussed what would happen to the van with Mr and Mrs G sooner, but Im not going to require Covea to do anything further in relation to this because I 
can see the reason it didnt return the van sooner was because it was still looking into the 
claim.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
require Covea Insurance plc to:
settle Mr and Mrs Gs claim by writing off the van and paying them the market value 
at the time of the theft. Covea Insurance plc can deduct the salvage value from this 
amount if Mr and Mrs G choose to keep the van once they know the salvage value
add interest at a rate of 8% simple per year, calculated from the date of the theft to 
the date it makes payment
reconsider Mr and Mrs Gs claim for the personal belongings in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
If Covea Insurance plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs G how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr and Mrs G a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman