DRN-2896564
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the decision made by AXA PPP Healthcare Limited not to cover the 
full cost of treatment under a private medical insurance claim.
What happened
Mrs W and her daughter have private medical insurance cover under a group scheme 
provided by Mrs Ws employer. 
Mrs Ws daughter was referred to a consultant orthopaedic surgeon (Mr C) as she was 
experiencing issues with her ankle. Mr C recommended chrondrotissue grafting. Mrs W 
asked AXA to cover the cost of the surgery. 
AXA said it thought the surgery was unproven treatment, and therefore not payable under 
the policy. However, the policy did allow for AXA to pay the equivalent cost of conventional 
treatment, and so AXA paid £2,574.80 towards the surgery, leaving a shortfall of £6,455.20. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs W brought a complaint to this service. She was also unhappy with 
the service shed received from AXA during the claims process. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think the surgery fell 
under the policy definition of conventional treatment, and so she concluded that it had been 
reasonable for AXA to refuse to cover the full cost of the surgery. The investigator thought 
AXA had handled the claim reasonably. 
Mrs W didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claim
The policy explains that it covers eligible treatment, and that this means the treatment is 
conventional (amongst other things). The policy then says there are some exceptions to this, 
for example, there are times when it does cover treatment for unproven treatment. 
The policy defines conventional treatment as
treatment that:
is established as best medical practice and is practised widely within the UK; and
Is clinically appropriate in terms of necessity, type, frequency, extent, duration and 
the facility or location where the treatment is provided; and has either
Been shown to be safe and effective for the treatment of your medical condition 
through substantive peer reviewed clinical evidence in published authoritative 
medical journals; or
Been approved by NICE (The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence) as a 
treatment which may be used in routine practice.
The policy then says that if a specialist wishes to carry out treatment which is not 
conventional, then AXA calls this unproven treatment. And that if the cost of the unproven 
treatment is more than the equivalent conventional treatment, AXA will pay up to the amount 
it would have paid for the equivalent conventional treatment. 
Mr C has provided a letter about the treatment. He said theres an old-fashioned way of 
treating the ankle, which is called autologous chrondroctye implantation (ACI), and the more 
up-to-date version of this is matrix-induced autologous chrondroctye implantation (MACI). 
Mr C explained that the procedure of autologous matrix-induced chrondrogenesis (AMIC) 
was then developed, whereby collagen scaffold membranes are implanted and create a 
robust scaffold which allows blood and stem cells to grow within a proper structure. Mr C 
then said that chrondrotissue is a synthetic bioabsorbable scaffold membrane, which 
provides an ideal matrix for cartilage regrowth with the AMIC technique. And that 
chrondrotissue grafting isnt a new concept, but is an adaptation and improvement on the 
existing technique of AMIC.
Mr C further explained that hed already performed chrondrotissue articular cartilage grafting 
on patients who were insured privately, and named several other surgeons that he was 
aware had performed the same surgery on patients within the NHS. 
Mr C is a specialist in his field, and was best placed to decide on the appropriate treatment 
for Mrs Ws daughter. However, that doesnt mean that AXA needed to cover the cost of it. 
AXA is only required to do so, if the treatment falls under its policy definition of conventional 
treatment.
Whilst I understand from Mr Cs explanation that chrondrotissue grafting is an adaptation of 
the existing technique of AMIC, AXA thinks that AMIC itself (as well as ACI/MACI) is an 
unproven treatment for the ankle. 
Ive looked at the NICE guidance, and this refers to ACI/MACI being carried out for cartilage 
defects in the knee, but doesnt mention the ankle. 
The NICE website does provide a link to the journal of the European Society of Foot and 
Ankle Surgeons, which referred to AMIC treatment on ankles in respect of osteochondral 
lesions of the talus (I understand this is what Mrs Ws daughter had) and how this provided 
significant improvement in the functional outcome and pain scores. Having said that, I think 
its clear that NICE doesnt approve AMIC as treatment for the ankle which may be used in 
routine practice.
Ive also looked at other research that AXA has carried out into the treatment, and this 
doesnt support that AMIC (or chrondrotissue grafting) is established as best medical 
practice and is practised widely in the UK. 
Although Mr C has referred to specialists that have carried out the procedure for the NHS, 
AXA thinks they likely carried out the treatment under clinical trials. That doesnt seem to be 
an unreasonable assumption given that the NHS apparently doesnt routinely offer this 
treatment for defects of the ankle. Overall, Im satisfied that AXA has shown that the treatment isnt conventional treatment, 
and therefore it isnt required to cover the full cost. 
AXA says there isnt an appropriate equivalent conventional treatment, other than 
arthroscopic operations on the ankle. Its therefore paid the cost of this to Mrs W, which 
seems to be fair. 
Mrs W thinks that AXA ought to pay for the hospital costs, as she says these were no more 
than the costs that wouldve been incurred for the procedures that were initially authorised 
by AXA. 
I think it would be helpful to explain that, although AXA authorised the two procedure codes 
it was initially given (both relating to osteotomy of the ankle), once it learnt which procedure 
Mr C was actually going to perform, it thought that the osteotomy procedures were only 
taking place to facilitate the AMIC procedure. Although AXA authorised the osteotomy 
procedures initially, that was in error because it didnt know they were taking place as part of 
the AMIC procedure. Im therefore satisfied that AXA doesnt need to pay the costs 
associated with the osteotomy procedures, including the hospital costs. 
Customer service
When Mrs W made the claim in June, she gave AXA the two procedure codes that Mr Cs 
secretary had given her (for the osteotomy procedures). AXA authorised the treatment. 
However, Mr Cs secretary then called AXA directly on 21 July and provided a new 
procedure code (for the grafting). AXA advised Mr Cs secretary that the procedure code 
was closed, but nonetheless, it referred the matter to its medical team for assessment. 
AXA couldve told Mrs W that a new procedure code had been provided, and that it was 
establishing whether or not this would be covered. Though ultimately I dont think this 
wouldve made a great deal of difference, given that she arranged for her daughter to go 
ahead with the surgery in early August, even after she learnt that AXA wouldnt cover the 
cost in full (though I would like to acknowledge that Mrs W has explained her reasons for 
that, which I completely understand). 
Mrs W says she called AXA on 27 July to let it know that her daughter would need to stay in 
hospital for two nights longer than shed first thought, and it was only at this point that she 
found out the surgery hadnt yet been authorised. She says AXA then advised her later that 
day that the two procedure codes shed given it had been authorised. 
Ive read AXAs call notes, and these say that Mrs W was advised that its medical team was 
assessing a new procedure code given to it by the specialist to see if it could be authorised. 
And that the two procedure codes Mrs W had previously given AXA had been authorised. 
That was correct information. 
On 28 July, AXA received confirmation from its medical team that it wouldnt cover the full 
cost of the procedure, and would instead pay a contribution towards it. AXA called Mr Cs 
secretary that day to clarify which procedure he wanted to do, because Mrs W had provided 
it with other procedure codes. The following day, Mr Cs secretary confirmed to AXA that 
Mr C would be using the AMIC procedure. AXA then contacted Mrs W to explain that the 
procedure wouldnt be covered in full, and it would only make a contribution towards it.
Mrs W asked AXA to reconsider and Mr C provided further information. AXA considered this, 
but maintained its decision not to cover the treatment in full. Although Mrs W only received 
AXAs final decision on this a few days before the surgery, she had been aware since late July that AXA considered the treatment to be unproven and didnt intend to cover the full 
cost.
I appreciate none of this was Mrs Ws fault. It seems the issue was caused by Mr Cs 
secretary failing to provide Mrs W with the correct procedure codes at the outset. Thats 
unfortunate, but its also not AXAs fault that the correct code was given after authorisation 
had already been provided in respect of the osteotomy procedures.   
Overall, Im satisfied that AXAs handling of the claim was reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman