DRN-4270726
The complaint
Mr T complains about the way Hargreaves Lansdown (HL) produced information about his
Individual Saving Account (ISA), Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and Fund and
Share Account in its reports. He said the information wasnt clear and he couldnt see what
charges applied as they were all paid from his Fund and Share Account.
As a result, he said he was unable to make investment decisions based upon these reports.
What happened
Mr T contacted HL to raise concerns about the information presented in his Quarterly
Investment Reports (QIRs) and Annual Tax Reports. He asked for his concerns to be logged
as a formal complaint in June 2021. In July 2021, HL provided a formal response on his
complaint and signposted him to this service should he wish to pursue matters further. Mr T
went back to HL later in July 2021, making some further points and HL issued another
response on 2 August 2021.
In October 2021, dissatisfied with the responses received from HL, Mr T referred his 
complaint
to this service. Mr T identified a number of points to his complaint. In summary, these were
that:
HL did not initially treat the concerns he raised as a complaint.
HL did not understand his concerns or the information contained in the Quarterly
Investment Reports (QIR).
HL provided false and misleading replies.
HL had conflated issues about the timing of the Spring Investment Report and the
Annual Tax Certificate. He said these were unrelated activities and there was no
correlation between the timing of these documents and the information contained in
them.
HLs QIRs did not accurately provide information about his three accounts,
his ISA, SIPP and the Fund & Share Account. Thats because the charges shown
and the calculations produced, relate to the source of funds to pay the charges and
not the actual charges incurred by each of the three different accounts. He said the
cash held in the Fund & Share Account was used to pay charges incurred in the ISA
and SIPP accounts, which meant the calculations shown in the Illustration of
Charges section were incorrect and provided a misleading impression of the true
charges per account.
explanations provided about the four QIRs were also misleading and inaccurate
because the four reports did not contain information relating to a single tax year
because the Spring Report 2020 contained data from 30 April which is not the start
of the previous tax year. The Spring 2021 QIR contained transactions and charges
from 1 February 2021 to 28 April 2021 which straddled two tax years. The HL Tax
Report Certificate was a separate document that was issued separately to the
Spring Investment Report. The Tax Certificate email was sent by HL on 20 April
2021. The Spring Investment Report email was sent by HL on 21 May 2021. Mr T
wants HL to align the information contained in the QIRs with the tax year, so that its
clear and corresponds with the tax certificate produced.
HL said it used to produce bi-annual reports in October and April each year
and the April statement would provide all tax information for the previous tax year. However,
in January 2018, in response to The Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II (MiFID II)
(to keep things simple I have referred to this as the Directive) it changed its information
practices.
HL said this Directive meant that businesses such as it had to produce more frequent reports
and charges information. It said it switched to quarterly reporting and included a new
charges section in its reports to comply with the Directive and the Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (COBS). It said its QIRs were issued in April, July, October and January each 
year.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ts complaint and issued a view recommending that
the complaint was not upheld. Mr Ts complaint was then passed on to another investigator
to deal with and that investigator reconsidered Mr Ts complaint, including asking HL for
some more information about its information practices. Having looked at the additional
information provided by HL, and considering Mr Ts representations, the second investigator
also concluded that Mr Ts complaint should not be upheld.
Mr T didnt accept our investigators views and was concerned about how the investigators 
had handled his complaint. His complaint was referred to me for independent consideration 
of the issues and to issue a decision on. 
In summary, Mr T did not accept our investigators views because:
HL do not provide clients with a breakdown of the actual account charges incurred
separately for each of their funds, in his case his ISA, SIPP and Fund and Share
accounts. It was not possible to understand from the Spring 2021 QIR what the
actual management charge, total investment charges or total charges expressed as a
percentage of total value were.
HL showed the charges applying to the account which the cash was taken from to
pay the charge, but it should also have included tables of the actual charges
incurred, because this is what the rules require.
as account charges can be paid by a variety of different options, using different
sources of money, there was no way of understanding the actual account charges
unless a table was included in the QIRs to show the charges. HL have not provided 
this information in the QIR or on request.
HL have not met the requirement to provide a table of actual account charges
incurred per wrapper in their QIR.
the information in the QIR is misleading and meaningless. Five QIRs need to be
considered instead of four when looking across the tax year.
the charges summary is from 1 May 2020 to 30 April 2021 and does not correspond
with the tax year or calendar year.
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Ts complaint in May 2023. Mr T did not accept my 
decision and provided detailed comments on my provisional decision itself, as well as an 
overview of his reasons for not accepting the decision.
In overview, Mr T said:
He did not agree with my interpretation of COBS;I did not understand his case, have not addressed the specifics of his complaint or 
understood the information contained in the QIR or HLs spreadsheet;
He disagrees with my findings and assumptions; and
I did not recognise that there are both historical and ongoing problems with the QIRs.
HL said it had nothing further to add.
Mr Ts complaint comes back to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, the ombudsman service is not a regulator. Its role 
is to deal with individual complaints and decide whether a firm has done anything wrong 
pertaining to a particular complainant. If it finds it has, it will then go on to consider whether a 
complainant has suffered any financial loss or inconvenience as a result of a firms conduct.  
It cannot require a firm to change its practices, that is the role of the regulator. It can 
highlight in an individual case how a practice may have impacted on a particular consumers 
loss or inconvenience. Our remit is to consider whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. In doing so we are required to have regard to (amongst other things) relevant 
rules and regulations. I am considering Mr Ts case in that context.
In his response to my provisional decision Mr T refers to what he sees as HLs continuing 
failings in respect of the information it provides in its QIRs. He tells me he has complained to 
HL again about its 2023 QIR. Here, I am dealing only with the complaint that Mr T raised 
with this service in October 2021. There are rules about bringing complaints to this service 
and I need to comply with these.
Mr T is also concerned that I did not ask him about his financial loss in relation to the matters 
he complains about. It is only if there is a finding that the business has done something 
wrong that has caused financial loss or warrants a compensation award for distress and 
inconvenience, that this service will enquire further into this.
After reviewing Mr Ts detailed representations, I remain of the view that Mr Ts complaint 
should not be upheld. I have considered everything that Mr T has sent in since I issued my 
provisional decision and his strength of feeling about this is evident. I have not repeated 
every representation that Mr T has made. I mean him no disrespect in not doing so. I have 
included those that I consider relevant to this final decision.
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) and purpose of the rules
COBS
The COBS, sets down the rules which firms have to follow where they are carrying out
investment services, as HL was in Mr Ts case. The Directive requirements about the
disclosure of charging information were included in the COBS rules.
HL has referred this Service to Chapter 16 of COBS. This chapter applies to firms carrying
out MiFID business, however the section about periodic reporting  COBS 16A.4  says its
for Investments firms which provide the service of portfolio management to retail clients. As
I understand it, Mr T made his own investment decisions and therefore HL was not providing
Mr T with portfolio management services. I think therefore, the relevant Chapter in this caseis Chapter 6 of COBS, which applies to regulated firms MiFID business  which Im satisfied
this was (and there appears to be no dispute about).
Mr T in response to my provisional decision was concerned that I did not understand the 
relevant regulations that applied here.  But he said that by quoting the wrong regulations, HL 
had demonstrated poor understanding of the applicable regulations. It would seem therefore 
that Mr T appears to accept that I am applying the relevant chapter of COBS here. He hasnt 
said otherwise.
In terms of HL referring to another part of COBS, I agree with Mr T this had the potential to 
cause confusion. I also understand that this has now further compounded Mr Ts 
disappointment in the service he has received from HL. In terms of the actual information 
requirements themselves, I cant see that the communications sent by HL about the actual 
requirements were so different and misleading because the wrong chapter was referred to, 
as to warrant an award for distress and inconvenience.
Mr T tells me he disagrees with my interpretation of COBS, so I have looked at it again, but 
my position has not changed.  I included what I saw as the relevant sections of COBS in my 
provisional decision. I do so again now.
COBS 6.1ZA.11R says firms have to provide clients with information about all costs and
charges relating to investment services, and the cost of financial instruments. This is the 
language used in COBS.
COBS 6.1ZA.14UK then goes on to give more detailed requirements about how it should do
that. It says that all the investment services charges should be aggregated and given as an
overall figure, and the same for costs associated with the managing of the financial
instruments. In Mr Ts case that is the fund management charges referred to as investment
charges in his QIRs. It says the aggregated figures should be given as cash and a
percentage.
COBS does not say anything more about aggregation, or how different accounts for the
same client should be treated. It does not say, for example, that annual charges information
needs to be given on an account by account basis. It does say that the client should be
given an itemised breakdown if they ask for one. 
Mr T disagrees with this interpretation and considers that the information should be 
aggregated and be provided account by account, Our views are not aligned on this. 
When considering whether HL has met its responsibilities under COBS, I am looking at both 
the information set out in the QIR and the itemised breakdown that HL provided Mr T with, 
when he asked for one. Mr T describes the extra information provided by HL on top of the 
QIR as ad hoc reports.  For the purposes of COBS, my view is that these documents are 
itemised breakdowns and these need to be considered alongside the QIRs.
Purpose of the rules
In COBS 6.1ZA.12R and COBS 6.1ZA.13R it explains the purpose of the disclosure rules:
This is to allow the client to understand the overall cost, and the cumulative effect on the
return, of the investment.
A firm must provide the information required by COBS 6.1ZA.11R and COBS 6.1ZA.12R in
a comprehensible form in such a manner that the client is reasonably able to understand thenature and risks of the investment service and of the specific type of financial
instrument or insurance-based investment product that is being offered and, consequently,
to take investment decisions on an informed basis.
FCA Review
In considering the purpose of the rules,, and more importantly  in considering what I
consider to be fair and reasonable in these circumstances (because that it what the rules 
that apply to this service also require us to do), I have also taken into account that in 2019, 
the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), carried out a review into firms 
compliance with these costs disclosure rules. The FCA noted that businesses were 
interpreting and applying the rules in different ways in practice. It reminded firms that all 
communications to customers about MiFID business must be fair, clear and not misleading
Ill now look at each of the areas of complaint Mr T raises in this context.
Timing of the reports
It seems not to be in dispute that information had to be provided once every three months.
Beyond that, COBS provides no specific timings.
I have considered Mr Ts point about having to look at five QIRs instead of four when
comparing it to the tax year. Mr T considers HLs business decision 
illogical and that to align the reports would provide increased value to clients. 
Mr T tells me that it was HL who first referred to the information in the QIRs being useful for 
tax purposes and this is a mis-statement. Its possible that communications between HL and 
Mr T about this could have been put differently. Mr T tells me from his perspective, the way it 
was put has further compounded his dis-satisfaction in the consideration Mr T believes HL 
shows its customers and the accuracy of its communications.
I appreciate it may have been an easier read overall if the QIRs directly correlated with the 
tax year, but I cant fairly or reasonably say that HL has done something wrong by not 
selecting issue dates which correspond directly with the tax year. Had the legal framework 
set out in the Directive required that, it would have said so. And as
set out above  the purpose of the disclosure isnt tax related, but to allow an investor to
understand what theyve been charged and how it affects their investment.
Having looked at what was required, and on the basis that HL issued reports once every
three months, I cant reasonably find that it acted unfairly or unreasonably because it did not
select issue dates that would have suited Mr Ts needs better. HL explained why it
had selected the dates for issuing these reports (a link to the previous timings of bi-annual
reports). This was a commercial decision taken by HL and not one that this service can
usually interfere with. I see no reason to do so here.
I also do not consider that I can fairly say that Mr T has been caused inconvenience or upset 
warranting an award of compensation as a result of the narrative contained in HLs 
correspondence with Mr T about the usefulness of the QIRs for tax purposes.
Itemised charges
HL has told this service that customers were able to view specific charges appliedto each account by viewing the transaction history online. This is relevant in terms of the 
transparency of the information available, which is, after all, what the Directive and COBS 
are aimed at.  I cant see that Mr T has disputed that he had access to that.
I can also see in response to Mr T request in July 2021 to be provided with further 
information about the charges, that on 2 August 2021 HL provided Mr T with an itemised 
breakdown for each of his three accounts. This showed the actual account charges per 
account. I can see that Mr T then asked for it to be provided in Excel spreadsheet format, 
and HL supplied it in that format on 12 August 2021.
The information Mr T was provided with showed the management charge and the
investment charges levied against each account. I cant see that Mr T was provided with the
total charge per account, explained as a percentage of the total value per account.
Looking at the spreadsheet HL provided, I think it would have been a relatively simple task to
add these up to obtain the cash figure and percentage figure per account that Mr T was
seeking. Mr T disagrees with this and states that this is not a simple task for a client to 
perform, furthermore a client should not have to ask for the additional information in the first 
place, it should be included in the QIR.
Earlier in this decision, I set out my decision regarding what HL had to provide under COBS. 
It was open to Mr T to ask for more information, which he did, and which HL provided, albeit, 
it did not provide everything that Mr T asked for.
Whilst I note that Mr T does not agree with me, I still consider that the questions for me to 
decide are whether HL was:
required to perform that calculation and to provide that information per account; or
whether it met its obligation and provided Mr T with clear information, so he could 
calculate it per account himself, if he wanted to. 
Were the communications fair, clear and not misleading
In essence, Mr T complains that the way HL presented the information about his charges
was not clear and was misleading because it underrepresented how much he had paid on
his SIPP and ISA charges and overstated what he had paid on his Fund and Share Account
charges.
In summary, Mr Ts position is that HL was required to perform the calculation and provide 
the information per account as it had the people, tools, technology and expertise to do so, 
and this was required by the Directive.
HLs position is that the information it presented set out how the charges were taken, so, it is 
a true reflection of what got paid from where. And it was open to Mr T to ask for an itemised 
breakdown if he wanted to reconstruct which account was the source of the different 
amounts paid.
Further, the QIR did highlight that the way Mr T paid his charges may skew the figures.
As I see it, by not including the platform charges for each account, because they were paid
from a different account, did not make the information provided unclear and/or misleading.
Mr T was still able to understand the overall cost and cumulative effect on the return on his
investments by looking at the QIR and itemised information.It could have been equally arguable that had HL presented the charges information account
by account this could be viewed as being unclear and misleading, because although some of
his charges were for services provided in relation to, for example his SIPP, they werent paid
for from his SIPP. So, it would be incorrect to say that his SIPP incurred those charges.
I consider that the way rules and requirements operate, is to require HL to provide
aggregated costs and charges information across all of Mr Ts investments, rather than on
an account by account basis. In my view, Mr T was provided with the itemised information by
HL, in a timely way, to breakdown the figures to the level he then required.
I have also taken into account that the QIR specifically highlights that the charges
information could be perceived to be skewed because of the way Mr T paid for the charges.
The QIR also stated under Important Investment Notes that a customer should check up to
date market information before using the report to make any decisions on the investments,
as the report provides historical data. I think, therefore, that HL provided, or was upon
request able to provide, Mr T with enough clear, fair and not misleading information to
enable him to make informed investment decisions and that it met its obligations under
COBS (and the Directive). Mr T points out that HL was not, as I pointed out in my provisional 
decision, providing investment advice. I dont think it is in dispute however, that HL was 
providing information. Mr T said in his response to my provisional decision that he was not 
using the QIR to make any decisions on investments. However, when he complained to this 
service, he said that due to HL providing inadequate information, it was having an impact on 
his ability to make investment decisions.
As I said in my provisional decision, I can understand Mr Ts frustration. Mr T says I appear 
to be saying that the problems he is experiencing are entirely his fault. To be clear, I am not 
saying that. I am not assessing his conduct here, but HLs. I am looking at whether HL has 
done something wrong. 
 I cant fairly say HL has treated him unfairly or breached its regulatory obligations in the way 
its told him about his investment accounts. HL was obliged to give a factual and accurate 
report of what hed paid, and for what services. Mr T paid his charges in the way he did, so 
this factual representation wasnt as useful as it could have been in terms of allowing Mr T to 
instantly assess what each of his accounts had contributed to his overall level of fees. I 
recognise that HL probably could have presented information in a way that Mr T found more 
useful, but from my analysis of COBS, I cant say that it should have produced it in the 
format Mr T would have liked it to.
Im satisfied that by warning Mr T in the report that this wrinkle of his charging arrangements
might impact some of the headline figures and by providing the detail to allow Mr T to see
what charges came from which account when he asked, HL fulfilled the requirements of the
Directive and COBS. Overall, I think HL has considered Mr Ts information needs, albeit not 
providing him with exactly what he has asked for, and as a whole has communicated with 
him clearly and treated him fairly. 
I am sorry to hear that Mr T doesnt like some of the language I used in my provisional 
decision such as skew and wrinkle, which I have used again in this final decision. I hope 
Mr T will accept that I do this because in context I consider these words convey what I am 
saying, rather than to cause him any upset.
Whilst Mr T still clearly considers that the way HL is producing this information is
inconveniencing him, I cant fairly conclude that he is entitled to be compensated for that, as
HL, in my view, met its reporting obligations in 2021. Whether HL is continuing to meet its 
regulatory responsibilities in relation to the 2023 QIR is not something I can determine now, 
as this complaint is not before me. Failure to treat Mr Ts concerns as a complaint
I dont think HL acted unfairly or unreasonably in the way it first handled Mr Ts initial
concerns about its information practices. As soon as it was clear that Mr T wanted his
concerns to be treated as a formal complaint, HL actioned this, providing him with a
response in a timely way and signposting him to this service, should he remain dissatisfied
with the outcome.
Mr T says there was no single person in HL owning his complaint and multiple persons were 
involved which led to problems and incorrect responses. I do not consider that the way HL 
handled his complaint fell below an acceptable standard. 
Explanations offered by HL when responding to this complaint
In response to Mr Ts complaint, HL offered some explanations about the information
contained in the QIRs. Mr T points out that some of the statements made were not entirely
correct. I think he is right about this.
Although the explanation was given within the context of dealing with a complaint, as I see it,
the requirement to explain things clearly was a continuation of the provision of the underlying
financial service and the expected customer service associated with it. So, I think we have
jurisdiction to consider HLs handling of this complaint more widely.
From what I have seen, I dont agree with Mr T that HL has demonstrated that it does not
understand his complaint. I think it has. HL itself highlighted the reporting requirements
brought about by the Directive (albeit referring to the wrong Chapter of COBS). I
think HLs responses about the QIRs could have been clearer. But, overall, I dont think the
impact of this warrants a compensation award for inconvenience and upset given all the
circumstances of this case and looking at how HL has generally communicated here and the
information it has provided. So, I make no award.
I do not consider that HL needs to do anything more overall, and I do not uphold Mr Ts 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold  Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2023.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman