DRN-3969711
The complaint
Mr J complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream (Lending Stream) provided 
him with loans without carrying out appropriate affordability checks. Had Lending Stream 
looked at Mr Js credit file it wouldve seen that he had multiple outstanding pay day loans. 
What happened
Mr J took a total of 11 loans from Lending Stream, and Ive summarised his borrowing 
history in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
payments
1 £200.00 12/01/2018 29/06/2018 6
2 £300.00 20/07/2018 31/01/2019 6
3 £100.00 24/07/2018 31/01/2019 6
4 £400.00 08/01/2019 28/06/2019 6
5 £200.00 16/04/2019 30/09/2019 6
6 £200.00 25/04/2019 31/10/2019 6
7 £200.00 01/05/2019 31/10/2019 6
8 £100.00 01/08/2019 29/02/2020 6
9 £300.00 03/08/2019 29/02/2020 6
10 £50.00 06/08/2019 16/01/2020 6
gap in lending
11 £580.00 07/06/2021 30/11/2021 6
Lending Stream considered Mr Js complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable 
decision based on the checks it carried out which included asking Mr J about his income and 
expenditure and carrying out a credit check for loans 1  4 and for loan 11. It didnt uphold 
his complaint about these loans. 
However, Lending Stream did uphold his complaint about loans 5  10. After refunding the 
interest, adding 8% simple interest and deducting tax, Mr J was due a refund of £1,200.45. 
Lending Stream also offered to remove all information about loans 5  10 from his credit file 
and this offer was made on a full and final settlement basis. 
The effect of this, was that if Mr J had accepted the offer, then he would forfeit his right to 
bring the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
Mr J did accept the offer  but he says it was on a without prejudiced basis. He also said that 
he did so on the condition that he would be able to allow the Financial Ombudsman Service 
to investigate his complaint. Mr J also said Lending Stream offered no real apology nor did it 
pay him any further compensation. 
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman, Lending Stream said it didnt think we could 
consider the complaint because Mr J had accepted an offer in full and final settlement. 
The complaint was initially considered by an adjudicator, who considered whether the 
complaint ought to be dismissed given what Lending Stream said in the FRL that the offer 
was in full and final settlement of the complaint. 
The adjudicator concluded that the complaint ought to be partly dismissed. She thought it 
was fair, that Mr J knew what he was accepting and why, and so we ought not to consider 
the complaint about loans 5  10. But as Mr J had made it clear there were further conditions 
on his acceptance the adjudicator thought it was only right that loans 1  4 and loan 11 were 
considered. 
Lending Stream accepted the adjudicators findings. 
Ive reviewed Mr Js comments he made in response to the assessment about what loans 
could be considered and following further explanation from the adjudicator he didnt wish to 
have that part of the complaint considered by an ombudsman. 
The adjudicator then proceeded to issue a view on the merits about loans 1  4 and loan 11. 
She concluded those loans ought not to be upheld based on the income and expenditure 
information Mr J had provided as well as the gap in lending between loans 10 and 11. She 
also didnt think Lending Stream needed to have verified the information Mr J had provided. 
Lending Stream acknowledged the adjudicators assessment, but it didnt have anything 
further to add.  
Mr J said he didnt agree with the proposed outcome, and Ive summarised his response 
below.
Mr J says he wasnt in the right frame of mind at the time he applied for these loans 
and just said Yes to all the boxes.
Mr J was short of money so he wasnt concerned with how it would be paid back. 
Had Lending Stream completed better checks it ought to have identified he had 
multiple loans with several other companies. 
Lending Stream has already reimbursed him for some of the loans and it should do 
the same for the others.  
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream had to assess the lending to check if Mr J could afford to pay back the 
amounts hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Lending Streams checks could have taken into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Mr Js income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Lending Stream should have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr J. These factors 
include:
Mr J having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr J having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr J coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr J. 
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Mr J could sustainably repay the loan  
not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr J was able to repay 
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Js complaint.
Loans 1 - 4
Before these loans were approved, Mr J declared that he worked full time for the same 
company for each application and had been working there for a number of years.
Mr J declared a monthly income of £1,800 for loan 1, £1,875 for loan 2 and then £1,850 for 
loans 3 and 4.  
Mr Js outgoings did vary, he declared outgoings of £1,235 for loan 1, £600 for loan 2, £900 
for loan 3 and £1,000 for loan 4. Based on the information Mr J declared for these loans he 
had a minimum monthly disposable income of £575. So these loans wouldve appeared 
affordable to Lending Stream.
It is worth saying here, that as part of its checks, Lending Stream made some adjustments to 
Mr Js expenditure figures, so for loan 2, it increased Mr Js expenditure by an additional 
£485 based on what it described as independent checks. 
I do have some concerns about the expenditure Mr J declared for loans 2 and 3 given how 
close together the loans were granted. I may have expected the sums to be either the same 
or broadly similar. However, even if I take the higher declared expenditure provided for 
loan 3, both loans still looked affordable. Before each loan was approved Lending Stream carried out a credit search. But from loan 4 
it used a different credit reference agency than it had used for the first three loans. Lending 
Stream has provided the summary of results to the Financial Ombudsman for all cases. 
Although Lending Stream carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to 
do one, let alone one to a specific standard. Therefore, its entirely possible that the 
information Lending Stream received may not entirely reflect the information Mr J may be 
able to view in his own credit file. There could be for several reasons for this, such as 
Lending Stream only asking for certain pieces of information. But what Lending Stream 
couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the information it received 
 if necessary.  
In my view, Lending Stream was also entitled to rely on the results it was given as it didnt 
have anything else to suggest the results were in anyway inaccurate. 
The credit check results gave an overview of all the active credit accounts that Mr J had. It 
knew he had 8 active accounts when loan 1 was approved and 9 when loans 2 and 3 were 
approved.  However, Lending Stream wasnt told about the types of account. 
So, although Mr J says he had lots of outstanding loans with other payday lenders, 
Lending Stream didnt know this. The active credit accounts couldve been personal loans, 
credit cards, mail order accounts or indeed payday loans. 
But as there was no requirement for Lending Stream to have carried out a credit search, 
I cant fairly say that Lending Stream has done something wrong by only asking for the total 
number of active credit accounts. 
For all loans, Lending Stream was also aware that Mr J had a mortgage that he was 
servicing with a balance of around £74,000. 
Unfortunately, and it isnt clear, whether a credit search was carried out when loan 4 was 
approved. And as Ive said above - this was with a different credit reference agency; the 
results havent been provided. So, I dont know what, if anything Lending Stream knew about 
Mr Js other credit commitments at the time. 
In addition, the credit file results didnt show any defaulted accounts, so it wouldve been 
reasonable of Lending Stream to believe that Mr J while having several credit accounts to 
service, he hadnt had difficulties which had led to any accounts being defaulted.  
There was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led 
Lending Stream to believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the 
information Mr J had provided. 
Given it was early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for Lending Stream 
to have relied on the information Mr J provided about his income and expenditure which 
showed he had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments he was committed to 
making. There also wasnt anything else to suggest that Mr J was either having financial 
difficulties or that the loan repayments would be unsustainable for him for some other 
reason. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Js complaint about loans 1 - 4.
Loan 11There was a significant gap after Mr J repaid loan 10 and before he returned for loan 11. In 
my view, this gap is long enough for Lending Stream to have treated Mr Js application 
afresh and treat him as if he were a new customer. The implications for this are that while 
this was Mr Js eleventh loan, it was in effect the first loan in a new chain of borrowing. This 
inevitably impacts what would constitute a proportionate check considering the factors Ive 
outlined earlier on in this decision.  
Lending Stream carried out the same sort of checks for this loan as it had done for the 
previous loans that it granted for Mr J. 
Mr J declared he worked full time at the same employer that he was with at the start of his 
lending relationship. He declared an income of £1,900 per month. In total, Mr J declared 
outgoings of £1,175. 
This left Mr J with £725 per month to afford his largest loan repayment due of £185.78. The 
loan, based on the information that Mr J provided and which Lending Stream could rely on 
looked affordable. 
As before, a credit search was also carried out  this time Lending Stream used a different 
credit reference agency that it had done for loans 1  3. 
From the credit search results summary, it knew that Mr J had defaulted on one account 
within the previous 12 months  and had defaulted on three other accounts between 13 and 
36 months before the loan was approved. It also knew that Mr J had 10 active credit 
accounts  but as before it didnt know what these accounts were for example, they couldve 
been bank accounts, mail orders, credit cards or payday loans. 
Ive carefully considered the credit check results, but I dont think, in the individual 
circumstance of this case that the results ought to have led Lending Stream to either carry 
out further checks or to have declined Mr Js application. I say this because while it knew of 
one default, that in my view on its own isnt enough to uphold the complaint about this loan. 
In my view, given the break in lending, Lending Streams checks were proportionate, and 
these checks showed that Mr J would be in a position to afford his loan repayments. 
Therefore, Im not upholding his complaint about this lending decision. 
Request for compensation 
Mr J says he was vulnerable at the time and Lending Stream ought not to have lent to him. 
But he hasnt explained why he considered himself vulnerable at the time.  There isnt 
anything in the notes or the applications Mr J made which suggested he told Lending Stream 
about this at the time and so it wasnt in a position to react to what it may have been told. 
In addition, Mr J has asked for compensation, perhaps in the region of £100 per loan. 
Unfortunately, in this case, I wont be making such an award because Mr J hasnt explained 
why beyond receiving redress on some loans (along with 8% simple interest) further 
compensation should be paid. 
Its worth say here, that had the Financial Ombudsman Service considered loans 5- 10 and 
decided that Lending Stream ought to not have advanced them  as Lending Stream 
concluded. Than it is likely Lending Stream would have been directed to put things right in 
the same sort of way as what it has already agreed to do, and what it has, as far as I can 
see already paid. Based on the evidence that Ive seen Ive seen nothing that wouldve warranted a further 
compensation payment in line with Mr Js suggestions. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman