DRN-4270402
The complaint
Mr C complains Citibank UK Limited (Citibank) blocked and closed his accounts without 
notice nor explanation following a review. 
To put things right, Mr C wants an explanation for Citibanks actions. He wants his accounts 
re-opened, compensation for financial losses, distress, and inconvenience hes suffered. 
What happened
In September 2021, Citibank contacted Mr C for information about his account activities as 
party of its Knowing Your Customer (KYC) review. Mr C answered some of the questions, 
but he refused to answer questions related to his source of income and asset holdings. 
Mr C didnt think these questions were relevant and the information was confidential. Mr C 
questioned the basis and relevance of these questions given he had been a long-standing 
customer for around 40 years. Mr C reiterated that he wanted an explanation and Citibank 
should explicitly ask him about any payments they may have concerns about. 
In October 2021, Mr Cs accounts were blocked by Citibank. And it told Mr C he would need 
to provide the missing information as part of its pending KYC review before it could consider 
unrestricting them. 
Later, in December 2021, Citibank wrote to Mr C and said it had decided to close his 
accounts with immediate effect. Mr C was sent bankers drafts for the different currency 
balances he held.  
Unhappy, Mr C complained. Citibank didnt uphold the complaint. In short, Citibank said it 
had acted in line with its policies and procedures  and it has an obligation to carry out 
reviews on accounts to ensure it complies with the regulators - the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) - guidelines on KYC. 
Mr C referred his complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into his 
complaint, and they upheld it in part. In summary, they found: 
- Citibank should pay £100 for the distress and inconvenience it caused for unduly 
delaying its processes between the account being blocked and informing Mr C of the 
closures 
- Citibank has regulatory and legal obligations to adhere to and it does not need to 
give Mr C a reason for the review. Citibank blocked Mr Cs account because he didnt 
answer its KYC questions to its satisfaction 
- Because Mr C wouldnt provide answers, Citibank ultimately decided to close his 
accounts. Citibank havent acted unfairly or outside the terms and conditions of the 
accounts by doing so 
- Citibank caused around a two-month delay. As Mr C didnt cash in his drafts, the 
delay didnt impact on when he received the funds  only a delay in resolution 
Both Mr C and Citibank didnt agree with our Investigators recommendations.  Citibank said 
it didnt cause undue delay and it provided correspondence sent to Mr C in which it said 
without the information required for the KYC review, the accounts will be blocked. 
Our Investigator altered their opinion based on this. They said Citibank had given sufficient 
warning of the consequences of not responding to its KYC questions. And the terms and 
conditions of the accounts confirm Citibank can close an account if information isnt 
provided. But as Citibank hasnt given an adequate explanation for the two-month delay from 
Mr Cs refusal to give information until its decision to close the accounts, the uphold still 
stands. 
Mr C made several points in response. Some of the key ones are: 
- The hesitation in dealing with the drafts was because he thought the complaint 
wouldve been considered much sooner by this service. Mr C was hoping this service 
would say the accounts need to be re-opened, and thereby not incurring any charges 
on the drafts being deposited into another banks account
- He did provide answers to all of Citibanks KYC questions other than those he found 
inappropriate. Given his long-standing relationship, irrelevant questions were not 
justified. So Citibanks reaction was disproportionate and unfair 
- Citibank never said it would close his accounts if he didnt fully answer all its 
questions 
- Citibanks actions are not in line with the FCAs treating customers fairly principles 
- He had given Citibank the opportunity to ask him directly about funds that come into 
his Euro account in June 2021 as they may have caused it concern. But it did not 
- Given recent media focus on banks de-banking customers, Mr C should be given an 
explanation for Citibanks actions and review the fairness of it asking him irrelevant 
questions simply by quoting KYC guidelines. Citibank should apologise and reinstate 
his accounts 
   Some of the key points Citibank made in response are: 
- On multiple occasions, and through multiple channels, Citibank told Mr C restrictions 
would be applied to his account if he didnt comply with its KYC review
- Citibank didnt respond to Mr Cs email dated 5 October 2021 as it was sent directly 
to a case handler who was no longer working for it. So it was unable to retrieve the 
email exchange. But the case handler did tell Mr C he could unblock his accounts by 
calling the relevant department 
- The delays were required for Citibank to properly carry out its processes and 
evaluation 
As both parties have not agreed with what our Investigator said, this complaint has now 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything Mr C and Citibank have said 
before reaching my decision. Its important to note, my decision focuses on Citibanks 
actions regarding Mr Cs accounts.  
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Citibank 
has provided is information we consider should be kept confidential.
It's worth noting banks, as regulated businesses, must comply with extensive legal and 
regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an existing 
business relationship. And that sometimes means banks need to restrict, or in some cases 
go as far as closing, customers accounts.
These obligations generally cover the entire period of its customer relationship  from 
application to eventually the end of the relationship. This includes Know Your Customer 
(KYC) checks and/or Customer Due Diligence (CDD). Its worth noting these checks include 
not just the verification of a customers identity, but also establishing the purpose and 
intended nature of the business relationship and origin of funds.
Ive seen communication between Mr C and Citibank. I note Citibank sent Mr C a detailed 
explanation as to why it needs to carry out the KYC exercise. This included, that it has to 
meet strict regulatory requirements, help it better combat fraud, and help it understand its 
customers wealth profiles and financial dealings. 
So, given what Ive said about what the KYC checks are there to verify, Im satisfied Citibank 
did nothing improper when reviewing Mr Cs accounts. Ive also seen that Mr C refused to 
answer two questions as he found them inappropriate, irrelevant and overly intrusive. 
Though I can appreciate Mr Cs perspective and rational for protesting by not complying, I 
dont think Citibank did anything wrong by persisting he needs to provide this information. 
After all, they related to his source of income and asset holdings. And these, as Ive already 
said, are key factors in establishing the purpose and intended business relationship, and 
origin of funds.  
So, as Mr C didnt provide this information - and as I think Citibank made reasonable efforts 
to allow him to do so  I find that restricting the accounts was fair, and in line with the 
obligations imposed upon Citibank.
Citibank is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before Citibank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account.The terms and conditions of the account, which Citibank and Mr C had to comply with, say 
that it could close the account by giving them at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice. 
Having looked at the information given to me by Citibank, Im persuaded it was entitled to 
close the account in the way that it has done. I do however think this point is finely balanced. 
Because on one hand Citibank never explained this could be a consequence of not 
complying with it request for information. But given Mr C was not providing information 
Citibank is required to ask of him, by keeping the relationship open it was at risk of failing its 
legal and regulatory obligations. Ive already said that Im satisfied Citibank gave Mr C 
reasonable opportunity to do so. 
Mr C says he was a long-standing customer and so Citibank shouldnt need this information. 
But the obligations Citibank must adhere to say it has to monitor accounts, and what it 
knows about its customers, on an ongoing basis. After all, peoples circumstances change 
over time. So I dont think Citibank were being unreasonable here. 
Mr C says he wants a better explanation and has suggested the review was instigated based 
on activity on his accounts from June 2021. Im not aware of any obligation under which 
Citibank must disclose its reasons for reviewing and closing the accounts. And, as Ive said, 
Citibank explained in detail why it was carrying out a KYC review. 
Mr C also says that recent media attention around banks closing accounts has to be taken 
into account here, and Citibank isnt treating him properly under the FCAs treating customer 
fairly principles. When deciding this complaint I must consider all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. This 
will include all relevant rules and regulations and any codes of conduct. And that is what I 
have done here. KYC and CDD checks fall under the FCAs rules which regulated 
businesses like Citibank must follow.  
Citibank say it didnt cause any undue delay given its internal processes, and it didnt 
respond to Mr Cs email because the individual it was sent to had left its employment. I 
would expect Citibank to have measures in place to still be able to receive and handle its 
correspondence in these circumstances. But even if I were to put that aside, Im persuaded 
there were delays between the restrictions being placed up until the decision to close the 
accounts. 
This period was around two months and having closely reviewed what Citibank says it was 
doing this period, I think it took longer than Id expect. So I find it has caused avoidable delay 
here. 
Restricting and closing a customers accounts are impactful actions. I note Mr C had other 
accounts, but from what hes said I do think the matter caused him same distress and 
inconvenience. So Im satisfied £100 compensation is fair redress. 
Mr C has said he lost out financially as he didnt have access to these funds. But I note he 
decided to not deposit these cheques in the hope that the account would be reinstated. That 
was his choice. So I cant say he was unfairly deprived of them when the drafts for the 
balances were sent to him immediately after Citibank closed the accounts. 
I also havent seen compelling evidence Mr C was going to use the funds from October 2021 
until they were released to him. Nor can I say with any probability whether they would have 
been released to him sooner. 
Its possible that had Citibank acted in a timely manner, the decision to close the accounts may have been made two to three weeks sooner. But in that scenario, I think when he did 
receive the bankers drafts it would have still been in reasonable time from that point. So I 
dont award 8% simple interest for any deprivation of funds here.  
Lastly, given I dont think Citibank did anything wrong when closing Mr Cs accounts, Im 
satisfied it doesnt have to reinstate them. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint in part. Citibank UK Limited must now pay 
Mr C £100 for the distress and inconvenience its caused him.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman