DRN-4308319
The complaint
Miss P complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money irresponsibly 
accepted to lend her a credit card.
What happened
118 118 Money accepted Miss Ps credit card application in January 2021 and agreed a 
credit limit of £1,200. As I understand it, this account has now been defaulted.
When Miss P complained to 118 118 Money through a third-party representative, it didnt 
uphold her complaint and so she referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
One of our adjudicators looked at what both parties said and thought 118 118 Money wasnt 
wrong to agree the credit limit. Miss P disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to 
me  an ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loans were offered. Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should 
take proportionate steps to understand whether the consumer could repay without borrowing 
further or suffering significant adverse consequences.
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves didnt set out compulsory checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account before agreeing to lend. The 
key thing was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different things, including things such as how much was being lent and the 
repayments. A business should also take into account and react appropriately to what it 
knew about the consumer at the time it made its lending decision.
118 118 Money has provided evidence to show that it searched Miss Ps credit file and she 
provided her income at the time of application. I havent seen any evidence that Miss Ps 
credit limit was increased and so my consideration is whether 118 118 Money made a fair 
lending decision when it initially agreed to lend Miss P the credit card.
Miss P declared her income as £2,178, the results of the credit search showed Miss P had 
89% balance to limit ratio on her existing credit. The most recent default on her account 
appeared to be in 2018 and I wouldnt have expected that to have prevented 118 118 Money 
from agreeing this credit limit. I think in the circumstances 118 118 Moneys checks were 
reasonable.
Comparing Miss Ps income to the credit limit and the information 118 118 Money found from 
its reasonable checks I dont think it was unfair for it to lend. I appreciate Miss P defaulted on 
this account but there was nothing within the checks that suggested 118 118 Money giving 
her this credit limit was wrong at the time.
So, I wont be asking 118 118 Money to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons given above and I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman