DRN-4128287
The complaint
Mr R complains that NewDay Ltd closed his credit card account without his authority.
What happened
In August 2022 NewDay sent Mr R a letter via his online service advising him that there were 
some changes to the card he held with them. The letter explained what Mr R needed to do to 
opt into the new card.
When Mr R tried to access the new card, he found that he was unable to do so. He 
contacted NewDay, who advised him that his account had been closed because he had 
failed to opt in to the new card.
Mr R raised a complaint. He said hed clicked on a link to confirm his consent to the new 
card. He also said hed found the process of renewing his card complicated due to his 
inability to understand complex written information.
NewDay didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. It said it had sent Mr R an email to let him know that 
the letter about the changes to his account was available to read in his online account 
managed. NewDay said it had also sent text messages and emails to Mr R about the steps 
he needed to take to opt in to the new card.
Mr R was unhappy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that NewDay had written to Mr R via his 
online service detailing the steps he needed to take and concluded that NewDay hadnt 
made an error by closing the account because Mr R had failed to opt in to the new account.
Mr R didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the letter that NewDay sent to Mr R via his online account manager. The letter 
sets out the changes to the account and explains the steps that Mr R needed to take to opt 
in to the new account. 
Mr R has said that he found it difficult to understand complex written information and that he 
didnt find the process of opting in to the new account very user friendly.
Ive thought about what Mr R has said. Although the letter contains quite a lot of information, 
I think the letter is clear and concise in its explanation of what Mr R needed to do in order to 
apply for the new card. I think the amount of information provided is about right  theres 
enough information to make sure that the customer understands what they need to do, but 
not so much information that the key points are lost. So in relation to the content of the letter, 
I dont think NewDay acted unfairly or unreasonably here.
I appreciate that Mr R thought hed opted in to the new account by clicking on a link. This 
service asked Mr R to provide the email with the link hed clicked on but he hasnt been able 
to do so. The letter sets out the steps Mr R needed to take to opt in to the new account, and 
states clearly that Mr R needed to make a call to an automated phoneline and key in his 
account number. Theres nothing in the letter which advises Mr R to click on a link in order to 
opt in to the new account.
Mr R has said that he didnt think NewDay was sensitive to his needs when it sent its final 
response. Im sorry to hear that Mr Rs health has been impacted by the closure of the 
account. However, I dont think NewDay treated Mr R unfairly when it closed the account. Im 
satisfied that NewDay did enough to bring the changes to the account to Mr Rs attention 
and to explain to him what he needed to do to opt in to the new account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman