DRN-3966676
The complaint
L complains HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) restricted their accounts and caused substantive 
delay in returning their funds after closing them.   
To put things right, L wants HSBC to pay it interest on the money that was withheld up until 
settlement.  
What happened
In early 2020, HSBC initiated a safeguard review of Ls accounts  this was effectively a 
Customer Due Diligence (CDD) and Know Your Customer (KYC) review HSBC has 
obligations to carry out.
HSBC then requested information from L as part of its review. In December 2020, 
January 2021 and February 2021, HSBC wrote to L saying that if it was not given the 
information it had requested, it would restrict and close the accounts in line with its terms 
and conditions. 
In May 2021, HSBC restricted Ls accounts - these comprised of a sterling, US dollar and 
Euro account. A few days later HSBC issued a notice of closure. Unhappy with its actions, L 
complained. They also served HSBC with a notice to close its accounts. L says they did this 
on advice of their HSBC relationship manager so that they could retrieve the funds being 
withheld. 
In July 2021, HSBC decided to bring its review and investigation to a close. In early 
August 2021, the funds in Ls US dollar account were transferred out to Ls nominated 
account. The remaining funds held in the Euro account were transferred to Ls nominated 
account in October 2021.   
In its response of October 2021 to Ls complaint, and in summary, HSBC said: 
- The accounts were inhibited as HSBC were complying with its obligations 
- It was sorry L had been misadvised funds would be released within ten working days 
- The review was completed in July 2021, but following multiple attempts to contact the 
director of L to verify the transfers, the closure team were unsuccessful in making 
contact causing unavoidable delays
- In September 2021, the closure team tried speaking to Ls director to verify the 
transfers but were later successful in doing so on 4 October 2021. Any funds held 
were then transferred out to Ls nominated external account  
L says HSBC caused unnecessary delays in releasing the funds to another of its external 
accounts, which caused it financial and reputational loss as well as inconvenience. Unhappy 
with HSBCs response, L referred their complaint to this service. 
One of our Investigators then looked into Ls complaint. In summary, they found: 
- HSBC had acted within its legal and regulatory obligations when it restricted Ls 
accounts and withheld the funds in them 
- After considering HSBCs reasons for restricting and withholding funds in the 
accounts, they found it had acted fairly and in line with the terms and conditions. And 
no unreasonable delays were caused by it 
- HSBC acknowledge it had misadvised L of the timeframe for which would release the 
funds and rectified the error 
L did not agree with what our Investigator said. They added HSBC could only freeze the 
funds for 30 days without explanation and asked for their complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsmen. 
Ls complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ls complaint. I know this will disappoint them, so 
Ill explain why. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that L and HSBC have said 
before reaching my decision. Its important to note, my decision focuses on HSBCs actions 
in regard to Ls accounts.  
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information HSBC 
has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential.
Account review
Banks in the UK, like HSBC, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. HSBC is also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means HSBC needs to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
HSBC has legal and regulatory obligations which include KYC or CDD reviews. So Im 
satisfied it hasnt done anything wrong in initiating such a review. The review of Ls accounts 
started in 2020, and Ive seen several letters from the point the review started until the 
accounts were restricted in May 2021. 
I note these letters were sent periodically, and the key message was that L would need to 
provide HSBC with more information to satisfy its review. And that a failure to do so could result in the restriction and closure of the accounts. HSBC warned L about this consequence 
several times over many months. So taking all of this into account, Im satisfied that HSBC 
acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when reviewing Ls accounts  and 
subsequently restricting them. 
Funds release 
This brings me onto the crux of Ls complaint - that is, the money was withheld for an 
unreasonable time causing them substantive detriment. Id like to assure L that Ive carefully 
considered all their arguments in relation to this point. But given the evidence Ive been 
given by HSBC, and in light of the concerns it had, Im persuaded on balance that HSBC 
havent acted improperly here. 
I say that because Im satisfied the review concluded at a reasonable point in July 2021 - 
given what HSBC were doing in relation to its investigation. Two to three weeks later the US 
dollar account funds were released. I dont think this was unreasonable.  
The key issue then appears to be how long it took HSBC to release the funds to L from its 
Euro account. As HSBC brought to close its review in July 2021, theres an argument that 
releasing the funds in October later that year was unreasonable. 
L says it chased its HSBC relationship manager every day for the funds to be released, and 
HSBC is only able to hold them for 30 days after restriction without giving a reason. But as 
Ive already said, Im satisfied the time it took HSBC to review the account whilst withholding 
the funds was fair given the obligations it must observe, and the investigation is what 
carrying out. So I dont think HSBC should have done anything different here.  
I can also understand why L would like an explanation for why the review was carried out. 
Ive already said HSBC has important regulatory and legal obligations it must follow which 
include a KYC or CDD review. Im also not aware of any obligation under which I, or HSBC, 
have to explain what the reason was. 
HSBC have sent me screenshots of its internal systems which show it was attempting to call 
the key contact at L to verify the Euro account funds release. Ive seen evidence it was doing 
this through July, August and September 2021. And when the relevant team did manage to 
speak to Ls director in late September 2021, the funds were released shortly after. 
Given the value of the funds, and the concerns HSBC had which led to the review, Im 
satisfied that validating and verifying the transfer was a reasonable process for it to follow. 
So I dont think HSBC has caused any avoidable or unreasonable delay in sending L its 
funds. 
Account closures
HSBC is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a it. But 
before it closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which HSBC and L had to comply with, say that it 
could close the account by giving them at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice. 
Having looked at the information given to me by HSBC, Im satisfied it was entitled to close 
the accounts in the way that it has done.Compensation and redress
L say this matter has caused them substantive financial and reputational loss. They also say 
it has caused significant disruption and inconvenience. I do appreciate HSBCs actions 
wouldve caused them difficulty. But having looked at whats happened in this particular 
case, I can see no basis on which I might make an award against HSBC given I dont think it 
failed to properly follow its own procedures, and it acted fairly by meeting it obligations.  
So Im not going to ask HSBC to compensate L for any loss or trouble this may have caused. 
I also think HSBCs apology when it misadvised L that the funds would be released in ten 
days and how it rectified this is sufficient. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman