DRN-3322403
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) hasnt refunded payments he made as part 
of a scam. 
What happened
Mr S was on holiday in a popular tourist destination. He visited a local electronics shop, 
where he agreed to purchase two tablets which he said he paid for on that day. The 
merchant told him that he could upgrade one of the devices and persuaded him to buy a 
subscription service which would provide WiFi and television services. So, he agreed to go 
to their office on the day before he was due to fly home, where they told him they would 
upload the software and anti-virus software and provide him a tax import receipt for customs 
purposes. 
Mr S explained that when he went to their office, he was asked to undertake a credit check 
for the service, and so gave them his bank card and identification. He was told the money 
would not leave his account then, but they swiped it to confirm the subscription. They told 
him this had not worked, so got another terminal so that they could complete the acceptance 
of the subscription. The merchant then told him that he would need to pay VAT, and he 
became suspicious, but the merchant became aggressive and told him the subscription had 
gone through now, so he had to pay it. Feeling he had no other choice, he paid this and 
signed and dated the receipts he was asked to. They gave him a bag which contained some 
devices they told him came with the subscription and receipts and he went back to where he 
was staying. Upon his return, Mr S said he noticed the receipts and paperwork were not in 
the bag. He checked his online banking and saw three transactions which totalled nearly 
£4,500. 
Mr S contacted Lloyds numerous times before catching his flight, and again after he got 
home to request that the payments be stopped as they appeared as pending but the 
payments left the account. 
Mr S contacted Lloyds to dispute the payments and it contacted the merchant through the 
chargeback scheme. The merchant produced signed invoices and receipts which claimed Mr 
S had purchased and received various high value electronic items including a console, 
controller set, download kit for games, tablet, phone, hard disk and wireless headphones  
but not the subscription service. Lloyds declined to pursue the matter to arbitration  the final 
stage of the chargeback dispute process. They also said that they did not think this was 
fraud as Mr S had authorised the payments himself, and had received goods. They 
suggested that if there were issues with the goods, this amounted to a buyer-seller dispute. 
They did provide him £125 in recognition of the service he had been provided when 
disputing the payments. 
Mr S said that he had found evidence online of others being similarly tricked and their banks 
had refunded the loss. He also said that the documents and receipts provided by the 
merchant in the chargeback process had been falsified, and only covered two of the three 
transactions anyway. He said a local electronics shop told him that his devices were cheap 
knock-offs which were not fit for purpose. 
He also complained that he had asked for the payments to be stopped four times whilst they 
were pending, but they allowed them to go through. He also complained that he was not 
warned the temporary refund Lloyds provided him when he disputed the transactions could 
be reversed. Unhappy with what had happened, Mr S complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what happened and did not recommend that Mr Ss 
complaint be upheld. They felt that the chargeback process, including the return of the 
temporary refund, had been followed appropriately by Lloyds  and noted that Lloyds would 
not have had any further evidence to provide in the chargeback process to rebuke the 
merchants evidence. They said the payments couldnt be stopped even though they showed 
as pending, so Lloyds could not have done more here. They also said that the payments 
were not so unusual and out of character that Lloyds ought reasonably to have intervened in 
or stopped the payments. 
Mr S disagreed  providing some additional reasoning for my consideration. In summary, he 
said: 
The payments were unusual and out of character for his account  particularly as 
they were international payments for large amounts and three payments taking place 
in quick succession with the same merchant. Lloyds ought to have deployed one time 
passcodes or further security measures to combat fraud. 
Lloyds had not provided adequate support following the disputed transactions, nor 
had they provided him with any detailed information about the chargeback scheme, 
or any other options for recouping his losses. They had further added to his stress by 
passing him between the fraud department and the disputes department. 
He had done all he could to contact the merchant, the police, Lloyds and anyone he 
could think of but felt that he had not been provided with any help or support to rectify 
the stressful situation. 
There remained no comment on the missing third receipt. 
The matter should have been taken to the next stage of the chargeback process  
arbitration. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to assess Lloyds actions against what they should have done  and having 
done so, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold them liable for Mr Ss 
loss. So, having considered everything, I am not going to uphold Mr Ss complaint. I do 
appreciate how disappointing that will be for Mr S, but I dont think I can fairly say that Lloyds 
should reimburse his account with the money that he has lost. Ill explain why. 
Whilst Mr S said he made the payments as the result of a scam, they can still be considered 
authorised. This is because consent was given in the form and in accordance with the 
procedure, agreed between the payer and payment service provider. In simple terms  the 
card was swiped and Mr S signed the receipt. So, under the relevant regulations, and the 
terms and conditions of his account, Mr S is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the account. 
But Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. As such I 
consider that as a matter of good practice, Lloyds should have been on the lookout for unusual or out of character transactions that demonstrated that Mr S was or might be at risk 
of falling victim to a fraud or financial harm. 
But having done so, I agree with our investigator  I am not satisfied that the activity that 
took place on Mr Ss account during this period was sufficiently unusual and out of character 
that it should have flagged up on Lloyds fraud monitoring systems, or put them on notice 
that he was at risk. I do appreciate that these transactions were not insignificant, but I do not 
think the value of the payments on their own or cumulatively were so unusual that Lloyds 
ought to have intervened or stopped them. In addition, Mr S had already made some 
international payments on his holiday, so the fact they were international was not 
unexpected on his account. Whilst I appreciate Mr S has made representations about seeing 
online that other victims of the scam had their payments stopped, my role is to assess what 
happened in his case and having done so I dont think that Lloyds ought to have stopped 
these transactions. He has also commented on the fact that there were three payments to 
the same retailer as unusual. I do agree that this would be less common, but not so out of 
the ordinary that Lloyds ought to have intervened. The payments were for different, reducing 
amounts of money and would have had some time between them whilst conversation was 
ongoing, or whilst the new payment terminal was retrieved and set up. So I think it was 
reasonable that Lloyds did not recognise the risk of a scam and intervene here. 
Chargeback
The chargeback scheme allows card issuers, on behalf of cardholders, to dispute payments 
for certain specified reasons set out by the card scheme operator. Lloyds did not pursue the 
claim to the pre-arbitration stage  that is to say it challenged the payment, received a 
response, but didnt pursue the matter further. I am not persuaded that Lloyds have acted 
unfairly by not taking the chargeback further. They said that they considered any arbitration 
would have failed as the merchant were able to successfully defend the claim, providing 
receipts for payments made and that Mr S had received the goods he had paid for that were 
itemised on the receipts. They said they were clear from the outset that the claim would not 
likely succeed. 
I am not persuaded that Lloyds have acted unfairly by not taking the chargeback further. 
While the card scheme operator does permit the cardholder to provide a written description 
of how the services were not provided, Mr S was in a weak position in terms of written 
evidence when the merchant responded with signed invoices, receipts and a copy of Mr Ss 
driving license. I know that Mr S refutes the validity of this evidence, but I can see why 
Lloyds did not think it had any additional evidence (other than commenting on the 
merchants evidence) to take the matter further. And I think the lack of provision of the third 
receipt doesnt change this  as it is likely the merchant could have produced this in 
arbitration in the way they had produced the first two at this stage. And Lloyds would be 
unable to prove whether they were legitimate or not.  
A chargeback is not guaranteed to result in a refund and a merchant is entitled to defend it, 
which they did here. A further challenge by Lloyds would have failed if the merchants 
defence complies with the card scheme rules. Im persuaded that, given the response from 
the merchant, there was no reasonable prospect of success if Lloyds had tried to take the 
matter further, so I dont think it has acted unfairly by not doing so. 
I am sorry as I know this answer will disappoint Mr S, and I am not saying that the merchant 
he dealt with acted faultlessly here. But as I explained, my role is to assess what Lloyds 
ought to have done here, and having done so I think they acted fairly and reasonably. 
I have also considered Mr Ss comments about Lloyds failure to stop the payments after he 
notified them about what happened. Unfortunately, whilst they appeared as pending at the 
time, Lloyds were not able to stop them once the payment instructions have gone through. 
So I dont consider that they made an error here either.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman