DRN-4119920
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) have not settled medical 
costs incurred under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
The parties are familiar with the long history to this matter. In summary medical costs were 
incurred for treatment for Mrs F whilst Mr and Mrs F were in the USA. The claim was 
accepted under the policy but URV didnt accept that the provider had charged a reasonable 
amount for the treatment given.
Our investigator found that negotiation appeared to be ongoing therefore didnt ask URV to 
settle the full cost. Rather, in October 2022, he asked that URV provide regular updates to 
Mr and Mrs F as to the progress of the negotiations. He also asked URV to pay 
compensation in the sum of £200 to Mr and Mrs F. Mr and Mrs F accepted this 
recommendation as did URV.
However Mr and Mrs F became concerned that he hadnt received a truthful update and that 
negotiations were not progressing. They said that the matter was seriously affecting their 
health and wellbeing. In January 2023 Mr F asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman to make a decision.
I asked for an update before making a decision. On 10 March 2023 URVs solicitor provided 
an update.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 April 2023. I said as follows:
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) set out how the 
Ombudsman Service can make awards.
DISP 3.7.1R says that where a complaint is determined in favour of a complainant the 
ombudsmans determination may include a direction to the respondent, which in this case is 
URV.
DISP 3.7.11R provides that a direction may require the respondent, here URV, to take such 
steps in relation to the complainant as the ombudsman considers just and appropriate 
whether or not a court could order those steps to be taken.
The policy terms say URV can:
 Take over and deal with, in your name, the defence/settlement of any claim made under the 
policy.
In effect, this means that URV has the right to take over the conduct of a claim - defending or 
settling it in the name of Mr F and Mrs F. But, thats not an unqualified right.
Legally, in situations where URVs interests conflict with those of Mr and Mrs F, URV has an 
overarching responsibility to act in good faith, having regard to Mr and Mrs Fs interests as 
well as their own.
URV isnt entitled to act arbitrarily in the way it goes about declining to pay the full amount of 
the invoice and contesting the outstanding amount. In deciding whether - and how  to 
defend a claim against Mr and Mrs F, URV is required to base their decisions on the 
circumstances of their individual case.
The applicable regulations lead to a similar conclusion. The Financial Conduct 
Authority(FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for Businesses, which URV must 
follow, including:
Principle 6 - A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treatthem fairly
Principle 8 - A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and its 
customers and between a customer and another client.
The relevant regulations also include ICOBS 8.1.1R which says:
An insurer must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress
(3) not unreasonably reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy); and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The Regulatory Guide, published by the FCA, entitled The Responsibilities of Providers and 
Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD) includes the Regulators guidance 
on what the combination of Principles for Businesses ("the Principles") and the detailed rules 
require respectively of providers and distributors of financial services in certain 
circumstances to treat customers fairly. The RPPD explains that firms should consider the 
impact of their action, or inaction, on the customer throughout the life-cycle of the provision 
of the service.
Ive thought carefully about what this means for Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. Having done so 
Im minded to require URV to settle all outstanding invoices relating to Mrs Fs treatment in 
full. I am also minded to require it to pay £200 compensation for the stress this matter has 
caused Mr and Mrs F further to their last complaint to this service. URV previously agreed to 
this  if this sum has been paid already it does not need to be paid again.
Our investigator concluded it would be reasonable to give URV further opportunity to 
meaningfully negotiate with the third parties involved to try and reach a settlement. URV, via 
its solicitor, has demonstrated that negotiations have been entered into. However it seems 
that there is an impasse as to what represents a fair and customary amount for the treatment 
provided. 
On 10 March 2023 URVs solicitor wrote that they were hoping to share more information 
with us shortly. To date nothing has been forthcoming.
I do appreciate URVs position that the charges levied are not fair nor customary. But this 
matter has been ongoing for years and is causing detriment to Mr F and Mrs F. I dont find 
that there has been any consideration given to the position they have unwittingly found themselves in, having claimed under their policy. I provisionally find that URV has failed to 
comply with the regulations Ive set out above and should now meet the outstanding medical 
invoices relating to Mrs F.
I said that Id look at any more comments and evidence I received by 9 May 2023, but unless 
the information changed my mind my final decision was likely be along these lines.
Mr and Mrs F accepted the provisional decision. They added that they couldnt stress 
enough how the situation had affected them, with the worry of being taken to court for the 
recovery of the unpaid amounts. They hoped that the matter could be brought to a speedy 
conclusion.
URV didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr F and Mrs F have accepted my provisional decision and URV have not responded I 
am not persuaded to change my provisional findings, which I adopt here. I too hope that this 
will now mean the matter is concluded expediently. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Union Reiseversicherung AG to:
Settle the outstanding medical costs for Mrs F
Pay Mr F and Mrs F £200, if not already paid
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman