DRN-3194946
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy with the service she received from The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc when 
she applied for a mortgage.
 
What happened
Ms S visited an RBS branch in February 2020. She was buying a property and, although she 
had agreement in principle from another mortgage lender, she says she was persuaded to 
make an application for a mortgage with RBS. But while she made it clear she wanted a face 
to face interview she was persuaded to make the application over the phone, which she 
found very stressful.
Ms S says she assumed the application was proceeding well but, after chasing the bank, 
she was told that the valuation had been delayed as the surveyor who had been instructed 
had been ill and there had been a breakdown in communication which meant it had not been 
passed to someone else. And the survey had not been completed by the time the country 
went into lockdown in March 2020.
Ms S complained to RBS about the service she had received. In particular, she explained 
that she had given notice on her rental property and was worried that she would be left 
homeless.
RBS responded to Ms Ss complaint and said, in summary:
While it had tried to find a way around it, the surveyors had confirmed that a physical 
survey was needed as there was a question about the type of cladding on the 
property, and the surveyor also had to complete an external wall fire review;
Due to government guidance all physical valuations remained on hold until further 
notice and unfortunately it was not able to proceed at that time. As soon as it became 
possible to resume these types of valuation it would get this arranged as a matter of 
urgency. Once the valuation was carried out it would be assessed and as long as it 
was satisfactory an offer of loan would be agreed and issued. It agreed that there 
would be no fees payable by Ms S for this report;
Ms S had said that shed given notice on her rental home as RBS had issued an 
agreement in principle (AIP). However, the AIP was a guide only and should not be 
taken as a formal mortgage agreement. This was clearly noted in the AIP letter 
provided to her;
To say sorry for the upset and worry caused by the poor service experienced it had 
awarded Ms S £1,000 compensation and credited this to her RBS account.
Unfortunately Ms S didnt receive RBSs letter, although she did receive the £1,000 into her 
account. She made a further complaint. And RBS issued a further final response letter. It 
agreed that its email containing the original final response letter had been sent to an old 
email address. And it also acknowledged that Ms S hadnt received callbacks on several 
occasions. It awarded her a further £500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Ms Ss valuation was finally completed in early July 2020.
Ms S wasnt happy with RBSs response and brought her complaint to this service. She said 
in particular that she had had to move in with relatives after leaving her rental property and 
pay to store her furniture. And she said she was still on medication for stress due to RBSs 
inadequate customer service.
Our investigator felt that the compensation that RBS had paid to Ms S was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. But Ms S doesnt agree, and has asked 
for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is unfortunate that the survey was not carried out when originally booked. This was due to 
the surveyor being ill and a lack of communication between the surveyors and RBS. And, by 
the time of the 2nd appointment, the country had gone into lockdown and physical surveys 
could not proceed. The survey did not take place until 8 July, after restrictions had been 
lifted.
Ms S has said that she doesnt know why RBS couldnt just accept the Home Buyers report 
that had been prepared for the property she was buying. But RBS confirmed in its final 
response that a physical survey was required as there was a question about the type of 
cladding on the property, and an external wall fire review was also required. Ultimately, RBS 
is entitled to have a survey carried out before deciding whether to lend on a property, and I 
am satisfied that it acted in accordance with its internal processes. So I am not persuaded 
that it acted unreasonably in requiring a physical survey.
Ms S has explained that she had to move out of her rental property in the middle of 
lockdown as she had given notice on the property after receiving agreement in principle from 
RBS and in the expectation that her purchase would complete by 1 June 2020. But while I 
sympathise with Ms S and agree that this must have been very stressful, Im not persuaded 
that it would be reasonable of me to hold RBS responsible. I say this as the agreement in 
principle is not a formal mortgage offer. Im satisfied that this would have been made clear in 
the documentation.
Ms S says, and I accept, that the delays and poor service she experienced caused her a 
great deal of stress. I note that she suffered sleepless nights and has had to take medication 
as a result. RBS has apologised, and has paid her a total of £1,500 compensation. As our 
investigator has explained, that is the level of compensation this service might consider 
awarding where there has been substantial distress, upset and worry over a sustained 
period. And, although I appreciate that Ms S feels that it is insufficient, Im satisfied that it is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S also says that she was pressurised into taking out the mortgage with RBS. She says in 
particular that she was in tears during the mortgage application call and that it should have 
been clear that she did not wish to proceed. 
Ive carefully considered what Ms S has to say. Unfortunately RBS has not been able to 
supply call recordings of the application. But, on balance, Im persuaded that it was open to 
Ms S to withdraw from the application at any time if she had wished to do so, especially as 
she has confirmed that she had another mortgage offer. So this doesnt change my decision.My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman