DRN-3647098
The complaint
Mr G complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund him the money hes lost after 
he fell victim to a purchase scam. 
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision. 
In March 2021, Mr G fell victim to a purchase scam. Mr Gs close family relative was 
contacted by someone claiming to be a representative for a well-known watch retailer. Mr G 
explained that several years prior to these events, his close family member had registered 
them on a waiting list with the watch retailer as a prospective buyer. Mr G says it was his 
name on the waiting list but that the contact number given was for his family member. 
Mr Gs family member received a call from the person posing as a representative for the 
watch retailer, letting him know that watches had become available. Mr G got in contact with 
the representative using the details his family member had shared with him. He let the 
representative know the watches he was looking for and agreed a price with him. Unknown 
to Mr G, he was in fact speaking with a fraudster. Mr G made four payments (£6,083.33, 
£6,458.33, £1,291.67 and £1,750.00 respectively) to the account details he was given by the 
fraudster between 19 March 2021 and 23 April 2021. In total Mr G lost £15,583.33.
For completeness and to set out what happened, Mr G has told us his close family member 
and a close family friend also fell victim to this scam. Both of which he says have been 
reimbursed via their banking service provider. Mr G told us that he realised hed been the 
victim of a scam when the family friend didnt receive the watch theyd been expecting. 
Mr G reported the scam to Monzo via its in-app chat function on 25 April 2021. Monzo 
having looked into things, refused to reimburse Mr G the money hed lost because it said he 
didnt carry out sufficient checks before making the payments. It also tried to reclaim the 
money from the receiving bank, but said no funds remained. Monzo did pay £30 as a 
gesture of good will and as an apology for the frustration caused as a result of the customer 
service and care it provided following its decision not to refund him the money he lost.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part and Monzo 
should reimburse Mr G 50% of the payments made to the fraudster, along with 8% interest 
from the date of the transactions until the date of settlement. This was on the basis she 
found both parties should share equal liability for the loss. Mr G accepted our Investigators 
recommendations but Monzo disagreed. It maintained that it provided an effective warning 
and that Mr G had no reasonable basis for belief when making the payments. 
As Monzo disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
Following a review of the case, our Investigator reached out to both Mr G and Monzo to set 
out what I thought was fair and reasonable redress recommendations. Both parties have had 
the opportunity to consider these and I will explain more below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I partially uphold this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been provided, 
and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Mr G doesnt dispute that he made the four payments from his Monzo account. This means 
they were authorised by him. So the starting point under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 and the account terms and conditions is that Mr G is responsible for the payments as 
well as any resulting losses. 
But the matter doesnt end there. Ive also considered whether Mr G should have received a 
refund of the money he lost under the provisions of the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code (the CRM Code). The CRM Code is designed to reimburse victims of authorised push 
payment scams. Monzo has agreed to adhere to the provisions of the Code. This means 
Monzo has made a commitment to reimburse customers who are victims of authorised push 
payment scams except in limited circumstances. 
The exceptions relevant to this case are: 
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate. 
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made.
*There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code that do not apply to this case.
Having carefully taken everything Ive seen and been told into account, I find Monzo has 
done enough to establish that Mr G didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the person 
he was sending money to was legitimate or that the payments were being made for genuine 
goods or services - watches. I say this because: 
When making the payments, Mr G relied solely on the advice of someone hed not 
met or made attempts to verify he was who he said he was - that he did in fact work 
for the watch retailer. Mr G received the contact details for the representative from 
his close family member - a family member whom Mr G has told us he wasnt aware 
as to whether theyd taken steps to check who they were speaking with. While I am 
aware Mr G explained hed joined the waiting list for the watch retailer years prior to 
this contact, I think this factor in and of itself, ought to have fairly and reasonably 
caused Mr G to act more cautiously when looking to make two large purchases and 
to make sure he was in fact dealing with a genuine employee for the retailer.   I havent seen anything that shows Mr G carried out any independent checks/ 
research to verify what he was being told about the watches he wished to buy. Mr G 
told our Investigator that he didnt check the watch retailers website, but added that 
due to the backlogs and demand for such watches being high, the website doesnt 
show availability as he said they are sold before being listed. Mr G also said the price 
he agreed for the watches were at the retail price. Ive thought carefully about what 
Mr G has told us and having conducted my own research online. From what Ive 
seen, Im persuaded the price was somewhat too good to be true. I say this because, 
I have seen the same model of watch - second-hand on sale for more than what 
Mr G agreed to pay for the brand-new watches. From what Ive been told, it appears 
Mr G simply took what the representative was saying at face value, acted on this and 
placed a lot of trust in a person he didnt know, nor had he verified was a genuine 
representative of the well-known watch retailer. Im persuaded he ought fairly and 
reasonably to have taken steps to check the watches he was buying and check what 
he was being told.
Im also persuaded that there was enough going on that Mr G ought reasonably to 
have questioned what he was being told. I say this because, Mr G has provided us 
with copies of the invoices he received. And in these invoices, it shows the VAT he 
would need to pay. Yet within the communication/ messages Ive seen between Mr G 
and the representative, he was initially told he wouldnt need to pay VAT on the 
watches. However, the representative then told Mr G this would be the case without 
me seeing any real reasoning for this. I note Mr G did attempt to query this with the 
representative, but it doesnt appear to me that a response was provided. Mr G did 
add that he spoke with the representative who let him know that the purchases would 
be subject to tax and he thought the amounts were correct, although hes said 
himself with hindsight he should have researched the requirements. Further, I also 
note when looking at one of the VAT payments quoted within an invoice that this is 
different to the amount quoted within the messages between Mr G and the 
representative. Mr G has told us he didnt question this. I think these factors ought to 
have prompted Mr G to have proceeded more cautiously when making the payments. 
Im mindful that, taking any of the individual factors above in isolation, they may not have 
been enough to have prevented Mr G from proceeding. But when considering the specific 
circumstances of this case and the factors in the round, on balance, I think that there was 
enough going on and sufficient red flags that Mr G ought reasonably to have taken further 
steps to protect himself. 
All things considered, I dont think Mr G had a reasonable basis for belief (from the outset) 
for believing the payments he was making was for genuine goods or services or that they 
were legitimate. And Im persuaded this was sufficient reason for Monzo to fairly decline to 
reimburse him the full amount of these payments under the CRM Code. 
Should Monzo have done anything else to protect Mr G and prevent the fraud
Good industry practice requires that regulated firms such as Monzo engage in the monitoring 
of customer accounts to be on the lookout for suspicious or out of character transactions 
with an aim of preventing fraud and protecting customers from financial harm. And under the 
CRM Code, where it identifies a risk of a customer falling victim to an APP scam, it is 
required to provide that customer with an effective warning. 
Monzo says Mr G was shown a high-friction APP warning when he set up a new payee and 
made the initial payment. It says the payment did trigger Monzos transaction monitoring 
systems which is why he was shown the high-friction APP warning. When taking into account the initial payment Mr G made, Im also persuaded that the first payment ought to 
have triggered a scam warning. Monzo strongly argues within its submissions that the 
warnings it gave were effective. I dont agree.
Mr G selected the goods and services payment option. Having reviewed the warning 
Monzo says Mr G wouldve seen after selecting the payment purpose of goods and 
services, I dont think the warning he was shown as a result was effective under the CRM 
Code. I say this because, the warning said, bank transfers arranged online or over social 
media are at a higher risk of fraud. Here Mr G was making payments arranged with whom 
he believed at the time to be a representative for the watch retailer. While they had 
communicated via a well-known messaging app and by phone  no contact was instigated or 
occurred, from what Ive seen, over social media. I dont think this would have been 
impactful to Mr G, given it didnt match his circumstances. 
The warning also said, bank transfers arent protected in the same way as card payments. 
Pay by card if you can. You might not be able to get your money back if this does turn out to 
be a scam. Find a legitimate seller who lets you pay by card. Again, I dont think this would 
have resonated with Mr G. Mr G at the time thought he was in contact with a legitimate 
representative for the watch retailer. So, whilst the warning tells Mr G to find a legitimate 
seller, he was already under the impression that he had. While, it does go on to say who lets 
you pay by card, the warning also indicates that bank transfers still have some degree of 
protection. Im not persuaded the warning is specific enough and provides clear guidance for 
how Mr G could protect himself. I cant fairly and reasonably say the warning brought to life 
what the type of scam Mr G was falling victim to looks like or highlighted the common 
features of these types of scams. 
So, having carefully considered the warning based on the circumstances of the scam Mr G 
fell victim to, Im not satisfied that Monzos warning was effective or that they can rely on this 
exception as a reason not to refund under the CRM Code. 
Could Monzo have done more to prevent the scam? 
Im mindful that when Mr G made these payments, Monzo should fairly and reasonably have 
had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate 
that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
As Ive said above, our Investigator considered the first payment of £6,083.33 to be out of 
character for Mr Gs account. Because of this, she thought Monzo ought to have got in touch 
and asked Mr G about the payment. Had it done so, she thought the scam couldve been 
prevented. 
Ive thought carefully about this point. The effect of making a finding on this point, given that 
Im upholding the complaint in part, primarily affects whether Monzo should pay interest on 
an award. In this case, Mr G has provided information that shows he moved the money used 
to make these payments from his savings account with a foreign bank into his Monzo 
account. The information given by Mr G shows that the savings account wasnt interest 
bearing. So, had Mr G not lost this money as part of the scam  the money still would have 
remained in the savings account. With this in mind, I dont make an interest award 
recommendation on the money to be refunded to Mr G. And because of this, I dont think I 
need to make a finding as to whether Monzo should have intervened to stop this payment, 
as Im satisfied it should reimburse Mr G under the provisions of the CRM Code.
Ive also gone on to consider whether Monzo took reasonable steps to recover Mr Gs funds 
once it was aware of what had happened. While I think Monzo couldve contacted the 
receiving firm sooner than it did, I dont think this has made a difference here. I say this because, Ive seen information that shows Mr Gs funds had left the receiving account prior 
to him reporting the scam and so no funds were available to recover. 
Overall, for the reasons Ive outlined above, I find both parties ought to have done more 
here, and I find it fair and reasonable in this case for Monzo to reimburse 50% of the money 
Mr G has lost to the scam. 
I note Mr G is unhappy Monzo didnt flag the payments when the payee name didnt match 
the account details hed entered. Mr G also doesnt think Monzo should be transacting with 
the receiving bank if Confirmation of Payee (CoP) is not offered when making payments. Im 
aware Mr G brought a separate complaint to our service about the receiving firm (where the 
money was sent to). In this decision, I am only commenting on the actions of Monzo as the 
sending bank and make no recommendations/findings in relation to the receiving firm. I think 
it is helpful to explain that it is not for this service to regulate or tell a business how it should 
operate or run its business. Our role is to look to resolve individual complaints between a 
consumer and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask 
the business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred. Whilst, Ive taken Mr Gs personal 
views into account, for the reasons Ive explained here, it is not for our service to tell Monzo 
which receiving firms it allows payments to be made to. This said, during the payment 
journey, I can see Monzo informed Mr G that the recipient bank did not support CoP/ that it 
could not confirm the details on the receiving account that had been entered. This is what I 
would have expected Monzo to have done. 
For completeness, it appears to be accepted by Monzo that the customer service it provided 
to Mr G couldve been better. In particular, when informing Mr G that his complaint had been 
raised when this was not accurate. Monzo paid Mr G £30 by way of an apology. Im 
persuaded this is fair and reasonable in this case and make no further award in respect of 
this point.  
Putting things right
For the reasons outlined above, Monzo Bank Ltd should now refund 50% of the four 
payments Mr G made from his Monzo account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and instruct Monzo Bank Ltd to settle 
the matter as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman