DRN-3301201
Complaint
Miss C is unhappy with what HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has agreed to do to put things 
right after she complained about unfair charges on her overdraft.
Background
As a result of our adjudicators involvement, HSBC agreed that it should refund all the 
interest, fees and charges it added to Miss Cs overdraft from July 2016 and it proposed to 
reduce what Miss C owed by this amount.
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Cs complaint and he thought that what HSBC had 
agreed to do to put things right was fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of the 
case. Miss C didnt agree so the complaint was passed for an ombudsmans decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what HSBC has already agreed to
do to put things right for Miss C is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her 
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
HSBC has agreed that it ought to have realised that it was unfair to continue adding interest, 
fees and charges to Miss Cs account as it ought to have realised the overdraft was 
unsustainable at this stage. And it has agreed to refund all the interest, fees and charges 
added it to Miss Cs overdraft from then in order to put things right. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. However, thats not possible in cases where funds that shouldnt have been advanced 
were advanced because typically those funds will have already been spent. 
So we have to look at a way of asking a business to put things right in a fair and reasonable 
way. And where a business provided, or continued to allow a consumer to use, a credit 
facility which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the 
consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges 
on that credit.
This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those 
interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year. Thats what HSBC has 
agreed to do here, so it has agreed to do what Id normally expect a firm to do in these 
circumstances.
In this case, Miss C has been left with an outstanding balance even though shes been 
refunded all of the interest, fees and charges applied. So while Miss C has been left with an 
outstanding balance to repay and she might be unhappy with this, HSBC has done what Id 
normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Miss C believes that HSBC should do more. As I understand it, shes unhappy with the 
amount of her reduction and she says it doesnt adequately reflect the distress HSBCs 
actions caused here. Ive thought about what Miss C has said. But what Miss C is left has 
been left to repay are the funds which she used and crucially I dont agree the interest, fees 
and charges have left her with a debt that she wouldnt otherwise have been left with. 
Equally as Miss Cs spending and not any interest, fees or charges added, is responsible for 
the balance remaining and its likely that Miss C would have spent in this way irrespective of 
HSBCs actions and Ive given thought to Miss Cs circumstances, Im not persuaded a 
further award for distress and inconvenience is appropriate here. 
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what HSBC has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Miss C  reworking her account so that all the interest, fees and charges 
added since July 2016 are removed and backdating any adverse credit file information to 
when it should have taken corrective action  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this case. And Im not requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Miss C to 
decide whether she wishes to accept HSBCs offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what HSBC UK Bank Plc has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Miss C is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of her 
complaint. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman