DRN-2714362
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the way British Gas Insurance Limited has dealt with a repair to his 
boiler under his Homecare policy.
What happened
In October 2019, Mr B took out a one-off repair service agreement and a Homecare policy 
with British Gas for a boiler at one of his properties. An engineer attended the property in 
November 2019 and fixed a problem with the water pressure switch in the boiler, but then 
identified a second problem. The engineer said this wasnt covered under either 
agreement/policy, so provided Mr B a quote for the repair and said the problem was due to 
the boilers heat exchanger, which needed replacing.
Mr B complained to British Gas as he says he was told his Homecare policy would cover all 
issues with the boiler. And that the terms didnt state that this particular issue wasnt 
covered. He was also unhappy that he then arranged for a different engineer to repair the 
second problem, but this engineer determined a different cause. Mr B had arranged for his 
own engineer to source a new heat exchanger in advance of the repair, due to what the 
British Gas engineer had said. This part was non-refundable, but then not required by his 
engineer, so Mr B was left with this part.
Mr B wanted British Gas to refund him the full cost of the second repair, including the part, 
as he considered he was covered for this under his Homecare policy. British Gas didnt 
agree, but refunded him the cost of the one-off repair.
Mr B brought his complaint to our service, but our investigator didnt uphold it. So he asked 
for an ombudsmans decision. I issued a provisional decision on 10 March 2021. Neither 
Mr B nor British Gas provided any further comments in response to it. The complaint has 
been returned to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any further comments, I see no reason to change my findings from 
my provisional decision. So I have set them out again here.
Should Mr Bs boiler repair be covered under his Homecare policy?
Mr B entered into two agreements with British Gas when he took out cover for this boiler. 
And when the engineer visited the boiler, he was acting in two capacities. The engineer was 
attending to carry out a one-off repair, which is a type of service agreement covered by its 
own terms and conditions (and not something our service can look into). And also to carry 
out a first service of Mr Bs boiler  under the terms of his Homecare agreement, which our 
service can look into. The repair cost Mr B £99 as a one-off fee. Where as his Homecare 
agreement was a contract he entered into for a year at a cost of £306. As the engineer 
attended as part of Mr Bs Homecare agreement, Im satisfied our service has the power to 
look at what happened when the engineer attended as a whole.
Mr B has explained that when he took out the Homecare policy he was told it covered 
everything. And hes said the problem with his boiler isnt listed as something the policy 
doesnt cover. However, this is where the interaction between his two agreements with 
British Gas becomes important.
Under the one-off repair British Gas was only required to fix and deal with the immediate 
issue with the boiler. At that time, it was identified as a problem with the water pressure, 
which was fixed with a new part. Once this single issue was fixed, Mr B no longer had any 
cover under this service agreement. However Mr B believes he had cover under his 
Homecare agreement. While he had taken out a Homecare policy, his welcome letter for this 
cover states what will happen at the first service (my emphasis):
At your first boiler service well come round and check that we can cover your 
boiler, that parts are available and that your boiler is working safely & efficiently. If 
we cant cover your boiler, well cancel your agreement and discuss other options 
with you. And of course well give you a full refund, unless weve already carried out 
any repairs.
So while Mr B had technically taken out a Homecare agreement, cover wasnt officially in 
place until this first service had taken place and British Gas had confirmed it could cover the 
boiler. And as the repair identified a further fault, British Gas wasnt willing to do this until this 
second issue had also been fixed. Insurance is designed to cover unexpected events  so I 
cant say British Gas was wrong to decline to cover Mr Bs boiler under the Homecare policy, 
considering it was already experiencing a fault.
Based on the above, Im satisfied that Mr B didnt have cover in place for the second issue 
identified with his boiler. So this isnt something British Gas needs to cover under his 
Homecare agreement, as his agreement was cancelled due to this issue. I can also see that 
British Gas refunded him any money paid towards this agreement, so I dont consider it 
needs to do anything further.
Should British Gas cover the cost of the repair due to poor advice by its engineer?
I appreciate that Mr B arranged for his own repair to the boiler, after the British Gas engineer 
gave him a quote of over £1,000 to fix the second issue. And that as the engineer told Mr B 
the problem was a faulty heat exchanger, he arranged for the engineer he did use to obtain 
this part in advance, to save time on the repair. As this part was then not required for the 
repair  and was non-refundable  I do appreciate Mr Bs frustration.
I accept Mr B wouldnt have purchased the part had it not been for the British Gas engineer 
telling him the was the fault. And that his boiler has been repaired without this part, so the 
engineer was incorrect in his diagnosis. So I do accept, in some way, that British Gass 
mistake has led to a loss for Mr B. But at the same time, Mr B arranged for an engineer who 
hadnt seen his boiler to obtain a non-refundable part for the repair  which does seem an 
unusual practice.On one hand I accept that Mr B should be able to trust what the British Gas engineer told 
him. But on the other hand, I havent seen any paperwork to suggest the engineer definitely 
identified the issue and confirmed with Mr B exactly what needed to be done to fix it. Afterall, 
he was no longer acting in either of his capacities, as the one-off repair was complete and 
the boiler not in an acceptable condition to start the Homecare cover. The notes I have 
available from the meeting are very short  not formal  and suggest the engineer noted the 
boiler was crashing and banging, so required a new heat exchanger. I cant safely say Mr B 
shouldve relied on this diagnosis, to the extent that he did, considering he bought a non- 
refundable part.
Due to Mr Bs complaint, British Gas refunded the £99 fee it charged him for the one-off 
repair, despite the fact that it did complete this repair, which included replacing a part. As 
this was an entirely separate contract and was fulfilled by the engineer, I dont consider 
British Gas needed to do this. But, while I dont accept Mr B shouldve relied on the 
engineers advice to the extent he did, his boiler was mis-diagnosed during the visit. So 
I wouldve looked to award a small sum of compensation for this mistake. As Mr B has 
received a refund of the one-off repair fee and benefited from this repair, I consider this is 
compensation enough for the mis-information by the engineer. So Im not directing British 
Gas to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman