DRN-1455890
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 1992 in connection with a mortgage. Mrs B says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Leeds Permanent Building Society) mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
Mrs B took out a PPI policy alongside her mortgage. She paid a monthly amount for the 
policy which offered accident, sickness and unemployment cover. She complains she didnt 
know PPI had been added to her mortgage account.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. Mrs B disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. She said she didnt know 
the PPI had been added to her mortgage account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Bank of Scotland should have made Mrs B aware she had a choice in buying the policy. Mrs 
B says she was not aware the policy had been added to her mortgage.
Neither Bank of Scotland nor Mrs B have any paperwork from the time of sale. I dont think 
thats surprising given that the sale took place around 27 years ago. But it does mean I have 
limited information about the sale, so I have to decide what I think is likely to have happened, 
given the information I do have and the broader circumstances.
Based on what I know about how Bank of Scotland sold policies like this at the time I think 
its likely the optional nature would have been made clear. And nothing Mrs B has told me 
makes me think Bank of Scotland didnt follow its normal process here. So overall, I think its 
more likely Bank of Scotland made it clear to Mrs B she had a choice about the PPI, and she 
agreed to buy it although I can understand why she may not remember this now.
Bank of Scotland says it cant say whether the sale was advised or non-advised, so it has 
assumed it was an advised sale which means the PPI information had to be clear enough for 
Mrs B to make an informed decision and the policy had to be suitable for her needs. So I will 
also continue on the basis it was an advised sale as this is a higher test level for Bank of 
Scotland.I think the policy probably was suitable for Mrs B because she was eligible to buy PPI, it 
seemed affordable at the time, and she wasnt affected by the main things the policy didnt 
cover (the exclusions).
I noted Mrs B says she would have received some sick pay benefits from her employer. But 
the policy could have paid out for a maximum of 12 months. This would have been alongside 
her employee benefits and would have also covered her if she was made redundant. I noted 
also that Mrs B says she had no savings at the time of the PPI sale. So having the policy 
would have meant her mortgage repayment could be covered for a length of time if Mrs B 
was unable to work.
Mrs B borrowed funds against a large and long-term financial commitment, which was 
secured on her home. So I think having the security that her mortgage repayments would be 
made if Mrs B was unable to work would have been important to her. 
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave 
Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But having decided Mrs B chose to 
take out the PPI - it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And  for the reasons Ive 
explained above - it looks like the policy would have been useful for her if something went 
wrong.
It also looks like the policy was affordable for her so I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have put Mrs B off from taking out the cover. And overall I dont think Mrs B has 
lost out by anything Bank of Scotland might have done wrong.
I realise that my decision is likely to be disappointing for Mrs B. Its always difficult to decide 
a complaint on very little information. But Ive thought very carefully about what Mrs B has 
said and about what I know of Bank of Scotlands sales processes. And I dont think  on 
balance  I can fairly and reasonably uphold her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman