DRN-1571681
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited turned down his motor 
insurance claim.
Reference to Admiral includes its agents.
What happened
Mr C was at a party where he fell asleep. When he woke up his car key was missing, as was 
his car. He reported the theft to Admiral. He then found out his car had been involved in an 
accident.
Admiral instructed independent investigators to look into the theft. After considering the 
investigators report and the police report Admiral were concerned that the theft didn't 
happen as Mr C described. It refused to pay his claim.
Mr C brought his complaint about that to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He 
thought Admiral had dealt with the matter fairly. Mr C didn't agree so his complaint's been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not going to uphold it.
Mr C said he drove to the party alone at around 2am. He said hed been invited by a friend 
he doesn't know well and Mr C only knows this friends nickname. He said he parked his car 
and locked it. When asked, Mr C couldnt give the specific address of the party. He was also 
unable to give the names of anyone else there, except for his friends nickname. He told 
Admiral that while he was there he fell asleep. He thinks someone might have spiked his 
drink. When he woke up the following afternoon he noticed his keys were missing. And then 
he discovered his car was also missing. Someone he couldn't identify gave him a lift home. 
And when he got there his mum told him Admiral had called that morning to say his car had 
been in an accident. But shed thought the call might have been some sort of scam.
Mr C reported the theft to Admiral. He confirmed his phone had been in the car at the time of 
the theft. He also confirmed he hadn't seen his car since parking it in the road where the 
party was taking place. Admiral looked into his claim. By the time Mr C reported the theft 
Admiral had already found out the car had been in an accident with several other cars. It 
later learned that the occupants of Mr Cs car had run away from the scene after the 
incident. The police didn't catch them. The key was still in the car, as was Mr Cs phone. 
Phone records relating to Mr Cs phone showed it had been used to call Mr Cs girlfriends 
phone number in the early hours of that morning. That call was made sometime after Mr C 
said hed last seen his car safely parked in the road where the party was. Mr C said his 
phone wasn't locked with a passcode; so someone else could have used it.
Admiral was clearly unconvinced by a number of aspects of Mr Cs account. So it turned 
down his claim. Mr C says Admiral don't have any proof he was in the car at the time of the 
theft or accident. I agree thats the case. But Admiral doesn't need that proof in order to fairly 
turn down a claim. When making a claim such as this it's for Mr C to show in the first place 
that the theft took place as he said it did. But I don't think hes done that. He hasn't been able 
to provide any witness evidence that supports his account of where he was at the time of the 
theft or the time that he left there without his car. And in the particular circumstances of this 
claim I think that raises questions as to the strength of his evidence.
Also Mr Cs phone was used to call his girlfriends number at around 4am. The call is only 
four seconds long. But that was around two hours after Mr C said hed last seen his car with 
his phone in it. Mr C said his phone doesn't have a passcode. So he says someone else 
could have picked it up and called his girlfriend by mistake and quickly ended the call. I 
accept thats possible. But its equally possible Mr C did make the call. The question for me 
to consider is whether it was reasonable for Admiral to turn down the claim based on the 
information it had. On balance, in the specific circumstances of this case I think Admiral had 
reasonable cause to doubt that the theft happened as Mr C said it did. So, it follows I think it 
was reasonable for it to turn down Mr Cs claim.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman