DRN-3877464
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that TSB Bank Plc refused to refund transactions she didnt recognise 
made on her debit cards. 
What happened
Mrs B said she didnt recognise multiple £2.50 transactions made usually on Thursday 
throughout 2018 and 2019. Mrs B said she made regular lottery payments on a Tuesday via 
three high street supermarkets and stores. However, then she noticed the same transaction 
being repeated on the Thursday. She believes she was double charged. So, she asked TSB 
to refund them. 
TSB refused because the debit card provider provided that disputes about duplicate 
payments should be made within 120 days and indeed it wasnt obligated to provide refunds 
if the disputed transactions if those transactions occurred more than 13 months previously. It 
also didnt agree the payments were duplicates given they happened two days after the 
original transactions. So, Miss B brought her complaint to us. 
The investigator was of the view that TSB could have done more to investigate this matter 
for Mrs B. However, he also didnt think that would have changed the outcome. Because Mrs 
B never said she lost her cards and her regular spending occurred on both cards afterwards. 
Therefore, he didnt think Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. 
As Mrs B didnt agree, her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. I do understand and appreciate Mrs B will 
be disappointed, but Ill explain why. 
There are rules from varying bank card providers like here with Mrs Bs debit cards that only 
permit duplicate transactions to be raised within a specified time. For Mrs Bs cards that was 
120 days. The transactions Mrs B has questioned occurred during 2018 and 2019 but Mrs B 
didnt raise this until early 2022. Therefore, I agree TSB had every right to be concerned 
about this. There are further rules under the Payment Service Regulations that permit a bank 
like TSB to not entertain issues over unauthorised transactions on debit cards which 
happened more than 13 months previously. This is because there is an overarching duty for 
customers to raise any issues with disputed transactions as quickly as possible. 
So, I dont consider TSB has done anything wrong in bringing these time limit issues to Mrs 
Bs attention and indeed relying on them. Mrs B mentioned things got delayed due to the 
pandemic, however these transactions occurred well before the pandemic, so I dont think 
thats very relevant. Mrs B also said as she had no computer access, she couldnt access 
her online statements. However, she could have asked TSB to post them out to her too.
 
Since the investigators view TSB has shown us that the disputed transactions were done 
using the card and PIN. So, considering there were two cards making these transactions and 
in both cases the card and PIN were used, that doesnt point to fraudulent activity for which 
TSB should be responsible for, given Mrs B usual transactions continued on both cards 
throughout this time. Mrs B also didnt say either card had been lost or stolen and given the 
normal transactions continuing that also shows the cards remained in her possession. 
Mrs B believes the transactions were duplicated two days after her original transactions 
buying lottery tickets by three different high street, well known stores. I consider this is very 
unlikely for three different large institutions to carry this out all together over this period of 
time, as it just isnt plausible. Furthermore, a duplicated transaction would usually occur on 
the same day as the original transaction and usually only a few minutes afterwards. And not 
two days later like what happened with Mrs B. Therefore, theres nothing to show me that 
TSB are responsible for refunding these disputed transactions. 
Like the investigator I do think TSB could have done better to explain things to Mrs B and 
possibly investigated the matter further in order to explain to Mrs B why her complaint wasnt 
going to be upheld. However again like the investigator I dont think it would have made any 
difference to the outcome. 
Mrs B also complained about the service she received when she attended the branch. TSB 
admitted this and apologised and provided Mrs B with £25 compensation. I consider this is 
reasonable. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman