DRN-3452943
The complaint
Ms C, through a representative, says Oakbrook Finance Limited, trading as Likely Loans,
irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about a 24-month instalment loan for £1,300 that Likely Loans provided
to Ms C on 24 July 2018. The monthly repayments were £98.75 and the total repayable
was £2,370.
Ms C says she had a poor credit history with defaults and judgments recorded against her so 
Likely Loans should not have lent to her. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Cs complaint, he thought the lenders checks were
proportionate and it made a fair lending decision. 
Ms C disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Ms Cs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Ms C would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way without experiencing significant
adverse consequences?
- If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Ms C wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Likely Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Likely Loans to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Ms Cs ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Likely Loans had to think about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Ms C. In practice this
meant that business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause 
Ms C undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Likely Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms C.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Ms Cs complaint.
Likely Loans has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked for some
information from Ms C. It asked for her monthly income and estimated her outgoings. It 
completed an income verification check. It carried out a credit check to understand her credit 
history and her existing credit commitments. Based on these checks Likely Loans thought
it was fair to lend.
I think these checks were proportionate given the term and value of the loan and its monthly 
repayments, and I think Likely Loans made a fair lending decision based on the
information it gathered. Ill explain why.
Ms C says she had a poor record with credit and had done so for years. But the credit check 
Likely Loans completed didnt show any recent adverse data. It showed she had £6,700 of 
active debt and that was being well managed, there was no payday lending in evidence and 
the only adverse data  two defaults totalling £266 were 50 months old. So I dont think it 
would have been fair Likely Loans to decline Ms Cs application on that basis. I think given 
the age of the defaults it was reasonable for Likely Loans to conclude Ms Cs finances were 
now stable and that her difficulties were historic.
It maybe there was other adverse data on Ms Cs full credit file as a lender may not see 
everything an applicant would: not all lenders report to all the credit reference agencies and 
there maybe timing differences. But I can only fairly expect Likely Loans to make its decision 
on the credit check it completed. 
So given there were no indicators of current financial difficulties and the fact the lenders 
affordability assessment showed Ms C would have £365 monthly disposable income after 
taking on this loan, I dont think Likely Loans ought to have thought that there was a risk this 
loan might not be sustainably affordable for Ms C.It follows I dont think Likely Loans was wrong to give this loan to Ms C.
Ive also thought about whether Likely Loans acted unfairly in some other way and I
havent seen any evidence that it did.
My final decision
I am not upholding Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman