DRN-2852703
The complaint
Mr W has complained that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) has unfairly declined his 
claim for cash benefit. 
What happened
Mr W has a private medical insurance policy, underwritten by AXA. Mr W was admitted to 
hospital in October 2019 for surgery. He remained in hospital for rehabilitation until March 
2020. 
AXA paid Mr W him a cash benefit for 2019 but told him he wasnt entitled to any further 
benefit for 2020. 
Mr W complained and AXA offered £100 compensation for any confusion it caused but it 
maintained its decision not to pay any further benefit. Unhappy with AXAs response, Mr W 
referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think AXA needed to do anything further 
as it had correctly applied its policy terms and conditions. Mr W disagreed and in summary, 
has made the following comments:
The policy terms say he will be paid the benefit per year.
He has to pay an excess per year which is clear but the cash benefit for hospital 
stays isnt clear.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has confirmed he had additional complaints which he raised directly with AXA which it 
has resolved. Those complaints dont form part of my decision and will have to be dealt with 
separately if Mr W decides to pursue them further. 
 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy confirms additional benefits on page 8 including:
Cash payment when you have free treatment under the NHS. £200 per night up to 
£5,000 per year. We pay this when you are admitted for in-patient treatment before 
midnight; and we would have covered your treatment if you had had it privately.
Page 35 of the policy confirms cover for rehabilitation:
We will cover in-patient rehabilitation for up to 28 days.
AXA paid Mr W £5,000  the maximum amount of cash benefit for the 2019 membership 
year.
Mr W was admitted into hospital in October 2019 and was discharged on 1 December 2019 
to the rehabilitation unit for continued rehabilitation until March 2020. 
Mr W also claimed £5,000 cash benefit for the 2020 membership year. But AXA said no 
further cash benefit for his rehabilitation was available.
Mr Ws rehabilitation took place over two policy years and for more than 28 days. But the 
policy confirms a limit of 28 days for rehabilitation. As Mr Ws stay in 2020 related to his 
rehabilitation which continued from 2019, I dont think AXA has unfairly applied its terms. 
Having considered both terms on pages 8 and 35 of the policy, there is a distinction between 
in-patient treatment and in-patient rehabilitation. Mr Ws stay in 2020 related to in-patient 
rehabilitation which had continued from 2019. In 2019, this started on 2 December 2019 and 
so he reached the 28 day limit by the end of December in 2019. As he had already been 
paid the maximum cash benefit in 2019, no further benefit was payable. In 2020, his 
rehabilitation was a continuation from 2019 when he had already exceeded the 28 day 
maximum limit. And so no further benefit is due under the terms of the policy. 
Mr W has referred to his excess which is payable per year and says the cash benefit should 
also be payable per year. The cash benefit is payable per year, for eligible treatment. If Mr W 
had had further free NHS in-patient treatment in 2020, he would have been eligible for up to 
a further £5,000. But his rehabilitation costs werent eligible, as set out above. And so the 
cash benefit for those costs wasnt payable.
Mr W also says AXA gave him incorrect information during his calls with it.  Mr W says he 
made plans to adapt his home as a result of AXAs incorrect information. Ive listened to the 
calls and I can see why Mr W was under the impression that his claim would be paid. The 
adviser he spoke to referred to the claim being processed and that checks would need to 
be made. She also said payment would be made by cheque. But she did also say the claim 
would be assessed. AXA accepts that its advice and information could have been clearer 
and has offered £100 compensation to put this right. This compensation is to recognise the 
impact of not being clearer and the loss of expectation. It isnt intended to cover Mr Ws 
costs of adapting his home which he told the adviser he needed to do due to his mobility 
issues. 
I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed with my decision and Im sorry to hear of the 
difficulties he has been through. But I dont think AXA needs to do anything further here as it 
correctly assessed Mr Ws claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman