DRN-3892555
The complaint
Ms B complains that MoneyGram International Limited (MoneyGram) released funds 
intended for her to a scammer whod deceived her through a property rental fraud.
What happened
Ms B was looking to relocate and found what appeared to be a suitable rental property on a 
website. She contacted the landlord who replied by email, outside the original website.
The supposed landlord sent information to Ms B including details of the flat and a rental 
contract. She was told that the landlord had previously had to deal with time wasters, so if 
she wanted to go ahead, the landlord would need to see proof she had £700 available to pay 
for the rental.
The landlord said that to prove this, Ms B had to get a friend or family member to send 
money to her using Moneygram and then provide the landlord with a copy of the receipt. 
Ms B questioned this. She proposed other, simpler and more common, methods of proving 
she could afford the rental. 
However the landlord was insistent it had to be done exactly as hed said, money being sent 
by Moneygram from another country and from another person to Ms B. He said that the 
sender should say the money was simply a transfer to a friend or family member rather than 
the real reason. If Ms B didnt want to do this, then the landlord would rent to someone else.
In the end, Ms B decided to do what the landlord had said. She attempted to remove the 
payment reference number from the receipt (a key element of Moneygrams security 
process) but realises now that shed left the number on in another area of the form.
It appears the scammer was then able to collect the money from a Moneygram office 
elsewhere in the UK by impersonating Ms B, apparently using fake identification and 
providing the security number from the receipt.
Ms B complained to Moneygram. She wanted Moneygram to refund her. She is also 
unhappy that MoneyGram hasnt provided her with any information about where in the UK 
the funds were collected, by who and what ID was used. Ms B believes she was at work 
when the funds were collected, proving beyond doubt it hadnt been her.
MoneyGram said that an individual identifying themselves as the intended receiver of the 
transaction visited a MoneyGram location in the UK on 27 October 2021 and completed a 
receive form requesting the payment of funds. The correct security reference number was 
provided, together with required identification (in this case a passport). The details matched 
the transaction. So MoneyGram says it was contractually required to release the funds. 
MoneyGram says it isnt required by its terms and conditions to retain a copy of the passport. 
The agent that released the funds in the UK had searched for the transaction on its system 
by the reference number and it isnt possible to search by any other attribute, nor could the 
agent see other information about Ms B against which to verify the recipient. MoneyGram 
also explained that the sender only needs to supply the receivers name and the country to 
send funds to. Its agents dont know what the receiver should look like, and this is why the 
recipient is required to provide the reference and the name of the sender.
Ms B didnt accept this. She thought Moneygrams security measures were inadequate, and 
that she could prove it wasnt her whod collected the money because shed been elsewhere 
at the time.
Our Investigator looked into the matter but didnt think Moneygram needed to refund Ms B. 
In summary, she said that MoneyGram acted fairly and in accordance with its terms and 
conditions when it released the payment. 
Ms B didnt agree with the Investigators findings. Because of this disagreement Ive been 
asked to make a final decision on Ms Bs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for the same 
reasons. I know this will not be the answer Ms B was hoping for, and I am sorry to have to 
disappoint her. But I will explain why I have reached this outcome.
To begin, I think its important to say that the outcome I need to determine here doesnt 
depend on whether Im persuaded the funds were fraudulently collected, but rather on 
whether I think MoneyGram has done anything wrong in making the payment it did. I dont 
have the power to investigate the criminal actions of a scammer, and I cant fairly hold 
Moneygram responsible for a loss unless I can establish that the loss followed from 
something it did or didnt do in the specific circumstances.
From the information I have seen Im satisfied MoneyGram was provided with the unique 
reference number and with a passport that met MoneyGrams identification requirements. 
The information it was provided on the withdrawal form matched the information given by the 
sender of the money. MoneyGram hasnt retained a copy of the identification, but its terms 
dont require it to.
Ms B is also concerned that Moneygrams process is flawed and insecure, and I know she 
has indicated she intends to highlight this to the industry regulator, the FCA. In deciding 
Ms Bs case though, I am considering if Moneygram is at fault in how it has applied the 
process it has in place rather than the inherent security of the general process itself  that 
being a matter more suited to the regulator. Im also conscious that Moneygrams processes 
seem consistent with the informal nature of the money transfer service it provides to its 
customers. 
So Ive based my decision, as I must, on whether MoneyGram took reasonable care to 
release the funds to the correct person and followed its normal processes correctly in doing 
so. 
As a starting point, MoneyGram knew an individual called Ms B was due to collect some 
money in the UK. An individual arrived at one of its collection points, with photo identification 
matching the name of Ms B and who knew the individual transaction reference number. Taking this into account, Im satisfied the MoneyGram agent followed the correct process 
when paying out the money. I appreciate fake identification may have been used, as Ms B 
has explained it wasnt her who collected the money. But Im satisfied MoneyGram wasnt 
required to take a copy of the passport, so I havent seen any details of the passport that 
was used when the payment was collected and cant provide Ms B with any further details 
about it.
I would expect MoneyGram to take reasonable care in checking the identification presented 
to it. Having said that, I dont think its reasonable to expect every MoneyGram agent to be 
an expert in identifying passport forgeries. As the agent didnt raise any concerns, I think its 
more likely than not the passport appeared genuine.
I think its reasonable for MoneyGram to expect the recipients personal details, along with 
the reference number will only generally be known to the intended recipient of a transfer. 
And I dont consider theres anything in this case that indicates MoneyGram could have 
known this information had been obtained fraudulently. 
Overall, Im satisfied MoneyGram followed its procedures when handing over the money to 
the individual collecting it. I say that because the individual was able to provide the 
information MoneyGram needed (and which are set out in its terms and conditions) and had 
photo identification matching the name of the intended receiver.
In saying all of the above, I have considerable sympathy for Ms B. She has been the victim 
of a cruel scam that seems designed to have defrauded her of her money. The scammer 
preyed on her need for a property and eventually succeeded in getting her to inadvertently 
reveal the Moneygram reference number. Ms B did have doubts about what she was being 
asked to do by the scammer because it didnt make sense to make the Moneygram transfers 
she was being asked to arrange, or to tell the sender of the money they needed to lie about 
the payment purpose to Moneygram if asked. Unfortunately, her instincts here were right.
But that doesnt mean Moneygram is liable for what happened. Ms B is the victim of a crime 
- the person directly responsible here is the scammer. I know Ms B now intends to pursue 
that with the Police. 
In terms of Ms Bs complaint about Moneygram, I havent seen sufficient evidence to 
persuade me that MoneyGram could, or ought to, have known the person collecting the 
funds wasnt Ms B or was doing so fraudulently. So it wasnt at fault in releasing the money 
as it did. That means I cant fairly hold Moneygram responsible for reimbursing Ms B for her 
loss here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Ms Bs complaint about Moneygram 
International Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman