DRN-3807314
The complaint
Mr L has complained about QIC Europe Ltds decision to reject a claim he made for storm 
damage under his home and buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
In July 2022 during heavy rain, a number of tiles slipped from Mr Ls roof and left a hole 
exposing the joists. Mr L says his fiances car was damaged by the failing tiles. 
Mr L said he made a claim to QIC but it rejected it. It said no storm conditions occurred at 
the time of the event and so no insured event occurred. 
Unhappy with QICs decision, Mr L asked us to look at his complaint. He says he had to 
borrow money from family to pay for emergency repairs to the roof which he needs to repay. 
Our Investigator checked weather conditions for the area at the time Mr L reported the 
damage. She found storm conditions hadnt occurred. And so she didnt recommend Mr Ls 
complaint should be upheld. She thought QIC had fairly declined the claim in line with the 
policy terms. 
The Investigator explained that if Mr L believed there was another cause of damage, the 
onus was on Mr L to show this and that it was covered under the policy.
Mr L didnt agree. In summary he says if a storm didnt cause the damage, it wasnt caused 
by wear and tear. He doesnt think QIC should decline his claim as something else must 
have caused the damage if a storm didnt. He doesnt agree that it is for him to show this. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurance policies dont provide cover for every eventuality, but for specified insured events 
such as storm, flood or fire. Some policies offer additional cover for accidental damage. If 
damage occurred accidentally, its reasonable for an insurer to expect a customer to provide 
an account of how the accidental damage occurred in order to consider a claim. 
In this case, Mr L was clear that a storm caused the tiles to slip from his roof. He says the 
roof wasnt in poor condition and there was heavy rain at the time.
We ask three questions when considering storm damage claims to help decide whether an 
insurer has acted reasonably - and in line with the policy. These are: 
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then we think the claim is likely to succeed. But, if 
the answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to 
be covered.
QIC defines the term storm as follows 
A period of violent weather defined as:
a: a gale of Force 10 or above (as defined under the internationally recognised 
Beaufort Scale) reaching wind speeds of at least 55mph or;
b: torrential rain that falls at a rate of at least 25mm per hour; or
c: snow that falls to a depth of at least 30cm in 24 hours or;
d: hail so severe that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
So QIC - like most insurers - doesnt provide cover for damage caused by bad weather - but 
extreme weather conditions defined as a storm as set out above. 
QIC declined Mr Ls claim. It said storm conditions didnt occur at the time the damage 
occurred. In order for Mr Ls claim to be considered under the policy, an insured event needs 
to have occurred. 
Local weather reports show that in the days before, on and after 22 July 2022 - when Mr L 
reported the damage occurred - wind gusts and rainfall didnt occur as defined under QICs 
policy. 
So - as the answer to the first question is no this means no insured event occurred. As no 
storm occurred. 
I appreciate that Mr L feels strongly that as he has insurance, and something caused the 
tiles to slip, his claim should therefore be met, even if a storm didnt cause it. But as Ive 
explained, insurers provide cover for specific insured events. I understand that QICs 
Surveyor commented that the cause of damage was due to wear and tear - having reviewed 
photos online of Mr Ls roof taken in 2021. This isnt something I need to consider. As the 
information shows that storm conditions didnt occur at the time the damage occurred, I dont 
think QIC acted unreasonably as the damage wasnt caused by the claimed insured event (a 
storm). 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L. And I understand that having to meet the costs to repair the roof 
unexpectedly has caused financial difficulties. But I cant conclude that QIC unfairly declined 
his claim. So this means Im not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman