DRN-3131080
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say they were mis-sold a timeshare arrangement. Because their purchase 
was funded by a loan provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, they say that it is 
liable under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in the same way as the seller. 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trades as Barclays Partner Finance and I shall refer to 
it as BPF. Mr and Mrs H are represented by a claims management firm, which I shall refer to 
as F.
What happened
F has explained that, in August 2008, Mr and Mrs H bought 5,000 points from a holiday 
company, D. My understanding is that the points could be used for holidays and 
accommodation at resorts operated by or on behalf of D. In order to pay for the points, Mr H 
entered into a credit agreement with BPF, arranged through D. 
Whilst it is not directly relevant to this complaint, in 2017 Mr and Mrs H bought a further 
17,500 points at a cost of £19,500. That purchase was also funded by credit arranged by the 
seller, but on this occasion a different lender was involved. 
In March 2019 F wrote to BPF on behalf of Mr and Mrs H. Fs letter said that the points had 
been mis-sold and that the circumstances of the sale were such that the finance agreement 
was unfair. F said that D had made misrepresentations about a number of matters, including 
the availability of accommodation, the standard of resorts and management fees.  
F said that these and other statements were untrue and gave rise to a claim in 
misrepresentation. Because BPF had financed the agreement under arrangements with the 
seller, it was liable under section 75.
Fs letter also alleged that the circumstances of the sale meant that a court could make an 
order under section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act, relating to unfair credit agreements. 
Finally, F alleged that BPF had not undertaken a proper assessment of Mr and Mrs Hs 
ability to make repayments under the finance agreement. 
BPF did not accept that it was liable to Mr and Mrs H. It said that any claim they might have 
had against the seller of the timeshare points had expired under the Limitation Act 2010.   
F referred Mr and Mrs Hs complaint to this service and one of our investigators considered 
what had happened. She said that BPFs decision not to look into the claims arising from the 
sale of the club membership was fair. That was because those claims were likely to be time-
barred under the Limitation Act. The relevant time limit was six years from the date of the 
contract in respect of the misrepresentation claim. In respect of any claim for relief under 
section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act, it was six years from the date on which the finance 
agreement ended. That had happened early in 2009.    
As far as the claim about BPFs affordability checks were concerned, the investigator said 
that she had not seen anything to suggest that the lending was not affordable. She did not 
therefore recommend that BPF do anything more. 
F, on behalf of Mr and Mrs H, asked that an ombudsman review the case and issue a formal 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note first of all that, whilst the contract for the purchase of the timeshare was with Mr and 
Mrs H, the credit agreement was between BPF as creditor and Mr H alone as debtor. So, 
only Mr H can bring a complaint about BFP. 
The complaint about the credit assessment
The investigator said that she had not seen anything to suggest that the lending was not 
affordable. 
However, our own rules say that we cannot consider a complaint unless it is referred to us 
within six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the date on which 
the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause for complaint.  
The event complained of in this case is the credit assessment that BPF carried out (or did 
not carry out) in August 2008. As the investigator noted, there is nothing to suggest that Mr 
H was having difficulty making repayments, and in fact he repaid the loan in full soon after 
he took it out. But he would have known relatively quickly if he couldnt afford the 
repayments; he certainly would have known within six years. It follows that this part of the 
complaint needed to be referred to BPF or to this service by no later than August 2014. 
Because it was not, we have no power to consider it. 
Section 75
One effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that a customer who has a claim 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain 
conditions, bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
I am satisfied that those conditions were met in this case. I must therefore consider the 
claims against D. 
Misrepresentation 
Under the Limitation Act an action (that is, court action) based on misrepresentation cannot 
generally be brought after six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. A 
misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of fact which is untrue and which 
induces someone into a contract. F has set out in some detail the various statements made 
to Mr and Mrs H and which led them to agree to buy the timeshare points. They were all 
made on or before 5 August 2008, so that is the date on which any cause of action accrued. 
No claim was made until Fs letter to BPF of 8 March 2019, more than ten years later. I think 
it very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim was made outside the time limit in the Limitation Act. It follows in my view that it was reasonable for BPF to say that it 
would not consider the misrepresentation claims under section 75. 
Breach of contract
Fs letter of complaint to BPF referred in very general terms to breaches of contract but did 
not particularise them. It did not indicate either when any such breach might have occurred. 
In the circumstances, and given the time that had passed since the credit agreement was 
concluded, I do not believe that BPFs response to that part of Mr Hs claim under section 75 
was unreasonable.  
Section 104A claims
Under section 104A and section 104B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. 
Mr Hs purpose in bringing this complaint is to try to recover from BPF money paid under the 
credit agreement  along with other sums. In such circumstances, the limitation period for a 
claim of this nature is six years from the date on which the finance agreement ended. The 
credit was repaid in full in or about January 2009, so the limitation period ended in or about 
January 2105. It is likely that a court would conclude that an action brought under section 
140A would be out of time. Again, BPFs response was therefore fair and reasonable. 
Conclusion
It is not for me to decide whether Mr H has a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against D. Nor is it for me to decide whether any such claim might be 
outside the relevant time limits in the Limitation Act. Rather, I must consider whether BPFs 
response to the complaints made by Mr H was reasonable in the circumstances. 
In my view the complaint about the credit assessment was brought outside our own time 
limits and I have no power to consider it. 
I believe that BPF acted reasonably in concluding that the section 75 claims and the section 
104A claims were likely to be out of time under the relevant provisions of the Limitation Act.   
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited to take any further steps to resolve Mr Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 
4 February 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman