DRN-1573172
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T, who are represented by a third party, complained that Northern Bank 
Limited (NBL), trading as Danske Bank mis-sold them mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) to them in February 1999. 
Background
It looks like the policy covered only Mr T. Mr and Mrs T say they didnt know theyd bought 
the policy and didnt need it. 
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. But 
Mr and Mrs T disagreed and asked for it to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
These events took place quite a long time ago and Ive seen that much of the original 
sale paperwork may no longer be available. So Ive relied on the information NBL are still 
holding about the sale plus what Mr and Mrs T have told me in deciding whats more 
likely to have happened. Ive also used my own knowledge of looking at similar MPPI 
sales.
Whilst I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs Ts recollections of the sale are genuinely held, I 
have to bear in mind that this sale happened more than 20 years ago, so its difficult to 
know exactly what happened on the day. I say this because the information Ive seen 
from the sale leads me to think NBLs sale practices would likely have made it clear Mr 
and Mrs T had bought this cover.
NBL has told us that that MPPI was sold to Mr and Mrs T at a meeting and that NBL 
made a recommendation that they should take it out. That means NBL had to ensure that 
the MPPI was suitable for their situation and that the information it provided meant they 
could make an informed choice about taking it out. 
Ive seen a sample of a mortgage application form that Mr and Mrs T would have had to 
complete. I can see theres a heading which says Homemaster Payment Protection Plan. 
This required Mr and/or Mrs T to sign this part of their application to say they either wanted 
or didnt want to have MPPI cover and also to specify the amount of cover they wanted. So 
they knew or ought to have known they had a choice about whether to take out MPPI. 
I also think the way their MPPI monthly premium was collected from Mr Ts bank would 
have shown up as a payment of £12.60. This would have been separate from 
Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage payment. That also leads me to think its likely they would have 
known it wasnt something they needed to buy if they didnt want to.
Taking everything Ive seen into account, it seems likely to me Mr and Mrs T were aware, 
or at least ought to have been aware, that theyd agreed to take out MPPI to go with their 
mortgage. 
I think Mr T was eligible for the cover and not caught by of the major exclusions we tend 
to see in these types of policy. I dont think the cost of the cover was out of step from 
similar policies being marketed at the time and Ive seen nothing to say Mr and Mrs T 
found the monthly cost unaffordable. Mr T had some work-related benefits if he was 
unable to work, but only up to 6 months. If hed made a successful claim on the policy, it 
would have paid a monthly benefit of £200 for up to 12 months. It also meant that Mr and 
Mrs T wouldnt have to dig into any other financial resources they might have had 
available. And whilst Ive seen that Mr T has recently told us that Mrs Ts family would 
have helped with meeting the mortgage payments if necessary, its not something that 
can always be relied on given how financial circumstances can easily change. 
Whilst I cant say why Mr and Mrs T decided to take out the cover, I can certainly see how 
it might have been useful in their situation. I therefore dont think the recommendation to 
have MPPI was unreasonable. I think the policy was suitable for them.
Theres no way of me knowing how the cover was verbally presented to Mr and Mrs T and 
I cant say how thoroughly they read through anything they were given. Im sure it would 
have been possible for NBL to have provided better or more information but I dont think 
this wouldve made any difference. What Ive seen in their complaint does tend to support 
them agreeing to  and therefore knowing about  this cover. They signed their 
agreement and had an equally clear opportunity to decline the cover. And theyd have 
been able to see the premiums leaving their account over an extended period.
It follows that Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont require Northern 
Bank Limited to do anything to put matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2020. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman