DRN-2241056
The complaint
Miss M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc unfairly declined to process her 
chargeback claim in respect of faulty goods with which she was supplied. She wants a 
refund of the purchase price.
What happened
Miss M tells us that she ordered goods from an overseas supplier Ill refer to as Y. The 
sterling equivalent cost price was just over £73 and was paid for by her NatWest credit card.
After a delay in the goods arriving, Miss M explains that when they did arrive the package in 
which they were contained and the goods themselves were damaged. She says that Y was 
unhelpful in the way it dealt with her complaint. So she turned to NatWest. She doesnt feel it 
dealt with her complaint properly and it didnt process her claim.
NatWest said that it had to follow the chargeback rules. And that one of the requirements for 
a claim in respect of damaged or faulty goods is that the goods have to be returned to the 
retailer, or the return tendered. As that hadnt happened it said that it was unable to assist.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She explained that 
where NatWest didnt think there was any reasonable prospect of success it neednt raise 
the chargeback. 
Miss M didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Miss M has experienced the disappointment of the goods she ordered being 
found to be damaged upon receipt.
Its important to explain my role here. Im looking at the actions of NatWest and not the 
retailer. And Im not directly considering the merits of any claim Miss Ms may have against 
Y. I completely understand why Miss M would feel she hadnt been treated fairly by Y.
As the amount of the purchase was less than £100, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 doesnt apply. So rather than the statutory protection that legislation provides, Miss M 
had to rely on the chargeback process.
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme which is run by the scheme operator. Here this is not 
NatWest but a business Ill call M. And as the operator, M is able to set the rules as it sees 
fit. This means that theres no right to a chargeback and no guarantee a chargeback claim 
will be successful. And where NatWest doesnt think theres any reasonable chance of a 
successful claim it can decline to process it.
Ive looked at the relevant scheme rules which cover situations when goods are defective 
(damaged) upon receipt.
The conditions require proof of damage (which Miss M has supplied). But they also require 
that:
The consumer returned the goods or informed the merchant the goods were available for 
pickup.
Ive seen emails between Miss M and Y in which she expresses dissatisfaction with the 
goods and refers in general terms to her wish for a replacement.
One email reads:
Since you are blatantly not interested to help me, ideally by offering an exchange/return, or 
at the very least by launching a claim with the shipping company.
Whilst that implies that one of the options which Miss M is considering, is a replacement or 
return it also seems she was alternatively looking to pursue a compensation claim against 
the shipping company. Its not in dispute that the goods hadnt been returned. But I cant see 
that any details of where the goods could be picked up was mentioned. 
As the chargeback rules are tightly drawn  and the criteria hadnt been met - I think it was 
reasonable for NatWest to believe that there was no reasonable prospect of success.
Its also highly improbable that the claim would have been successful even if submitted. 
During the initial email exchange with Y it had required Miss M to provide documentary 
information to show that upon delivery to her, the damage had been identified to the delivery 
courier. And to provide the relevant signatures that this had happened. 
Miss M explained that where she lives has a system where packages are delivered to a 
central point and signed for by a concierge. And that he wouldnt be expected to examine 
each item for which he was accepting receipt.
In the absence of being provided with any documentary information to show the goods were 
damaged at the time of delivery its highly likely the merchant would have disputed the 
chargeback claim. And NatWest wouldnt reasonably have been able to challenge this.
Im sorry that my decision will disappoint Miss M. And I empathise with her situation as it 
seems probable shes incurred a loss with very little practical means of redress. But as I 
dont find that NatWest has done anything wrong, I shant be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman