DRN-2904458
The complaint
Miss P complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly voided her home insurance
policies and requested repayment of previous claim settlements.  
What happened
Miss P insured a property with UKI. The home insurance policy was purchased in 2017 and
renewed in 2018. In 2018 she made three claims following burglaries, and UKI made
payments to settle these claims. The first claim was made on the original policy, while the
second and third claims were made on the renewed policy.
In 2019, Miss P made a fourth claim following another burglary. After making enquiries into
the claim, including an agent meeting with Miss P, UKI declined cover for the claim and
voided both the original policy and the renewed policy. It also requested the repayment of
the amounts paid on the previous claims. It said that, when shed taken out the policy, and
when it was renewed, Miss P had misrepresented details about who was going to be living at
the property.
Miss P had indicated that only she, and her family, would be living there but during both the
original period of insurance and the period after the policy was renewed, paying lodgers had
been living at the property.
UKI said if it had been told about this, it wouldnt have sold the policies. It considered that
shed intentionally done this. It voided both policies back to inception and retained the
premiums.
Miss P was unhappy with this and complained to UKI. When it rejected her complaint, she
referred it to this service. Our investigator didnt think UKI had done anything wrong. He
thought that the evidence was that Miss P had misrepresented material facts when she took
out the policy, and that UKIs response to this was fair in the circumstances.
Miss P didnt accept this and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
My provisional decisions
Ive issued two provisional decisions on this complaint. In summary, I concluded that UKI 
hadnt acted fairly in seeking to void Miss Ps policies from 2017 and 2018 from inception. Its 
argument that she hadnt disclosed her intention to take in lodgers when she took out the 
policy wasnt relevant because no question in relation to this had been asked, so she wasnt 
under an obligation to disclose this when she took out (and renewed) the policy.
I did conclude that Miss P was under an obligation to disclose to UKI when she first took in 
lodgers. And UKI had satisfactorily demonstrated that if shed done so, it wouldnt have 
continued covering her on this policy. So I concluded that any cancellation of the 2018 policy 
could only fairly have been made after the incidents which resulted in claims. So I concluded 
that UKI wasnt entitled to seek recovery of its claim settlements on the 2018 policy.
With regards to the 2017 policy, I concluded that UKI had demonstrated that the policy would 
have been cancelled prior to the incident which gave rise to the claim made on that policy. 
This was because not only should she have disclosed the fact that a lodger had moved in 
before the burglary, but also because building works had started in April 2018. UKI had 
shown that if those works had been disclosed (as Miss P should have done in line with the 
policy terms and conditions) then the policy would have been cancelled. I did conclude that 
the policy could have been cancelled in April 2018 and Miss P would have been entitled to 
receive a refund for the unused period of insurance. So that amount should be deducted 
from the amount UKI was seeking to recover from Miss P.
In summary, I concluded that:
UKI was entitled to seek recovery of the claim settlement paid on the 2017 policy 
(following the first burglary)
UKI should deduct from that amount the amount it would have refunded if the policy 
had been cancelled in April 2018 when Miss P should have disclosed the building 
works.
UKI wasnt entitled to recover the claim settlements paid on the 2018 policy (following 
the second and third burglaries).
UKI should cease attempts to recover those settlements from Miss P.
The response to my provisional decisions
UKI responded to the original provisional decision. Its comments were incorporated and form 
the basis of the change in my position in the second provisional decision. It accepted the 
findings in that provisional decision.
Miss P responded to the second provisional decision. She said she agreed with my position 
that UKI wasnt entitled to recover any of the claims settlements. She also said that building 
works had started in September 2018, and that UKI had been aware at the time of the 
original claim that she was carrying out these works. She was also unhappy with the way 
that UKIs loss adjuster had treated her when they took a statement from her when the final 
claim was being investigated. She asked that the final claim arising from the fourth burglary 
be paid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first point I want to address is that it appears Miss P has misunderstood my proposed 
conclusions here. Her response to the provisional decision indicates that she believes Im 
saying that UKI can no longer pursue her for the repayment of all the settlements it made 
across the three claims. This isnt correct. Ive said that UKI shouldnt pursue her for the 
settlements made on the second and third claims. But I remain satisfied that UKI can fairly 
require her to repay the settlement it paid for the first claim, following the first burglary. I say 
this because:
The terms and conditions of the policy required Miss P to disclose to UKI when she 
took in lodgers.
The terms and conditions also required her to disclose to UKI when the building 
works started.
Miss P didnt notify UKI that a lodger had moved in. While she says she notified UKI 
of the building work starting, UKI has no evidence of this.
If Miss P had notified UKI of either of these points, the evidence from UKIs underwriting guidance is clear in showing that the policy cover wouldnt have 
continued, and the policy would have been cancelled.
The policy would have been cancelled before the first burglary occurred. So its fair to 
say that there would have been no cover at that time on the policy.
Miss P also says that the building works didnt start until September 2018. But if thats the 
case, it means that she wouldnt be entitled to a partial refund. The lodger had moved in in 
August 2018, and so she should have disclosed that to UKI. I addressed this in my first 
provisional decision, where I said, the policy (if cancelled in August 2018) was almost full 
term, with renewal in October 2018. At best Miss P might be eligible for a small pro rata 
refund but, in this case, UKI incurred internal costs in administering, assessing and handling 
the claim which arent part of the insurance settlement. And so I think it would be unfair to 
expect it to return any part of the premium in these circumstances and in this case.
Miss Ps contention now that the building works started in September 2018 also contradicts 
the signed statement she gave to UKIs loss adjuster, which said that the work started in 
April 2018. I know Miss P disputes the accuracy of that statement but I note that it contained 
a declaration that the content was true, and also contained a section which said shed read it 
and the information in it was true. Miss Ps signature is on the statement so I think its fair to 
rely on this as an accurate summary of the relevant facts. 
On that basis, I remain satisfied that a reasonable outcome here is that UKI can require Miss 
P to repay the settlement made on the first claim, less the amount it would have refunded 
her if the policy had been cancelled in April 2018. None of the further points made by Miss P 
persuade me that building works and lodgers should not have been disclosed to UKI. And 
even if the building works started later (thereby moving the date on which she was obliged to 
disclose these works to UKI), shed be in a worse position  as no refund would have been 
due and so shed be liable to repay the full amount UKI paid in settlement.
With regards to the second and third claims, nothing has been put forward by either UKI or 
Miss P for me to have any reason to change my decision with regards to that. UKI didnt 
have grounds to void that policy, and the building works were disclosed to UKI during the 
course of that policy (UKIs claim notes show that it was aware works were being carried out) 
but UKI didnt take any action in light of that, so it cant now say it would have cancelled that 
policy if Miss P had disclosed the works. And lodgers only moved in after the second and 
third burglaries so there was no need for that to be disclosed prior to those claims being 
made  she didnt misrepresent the occupancy of the property at the point of the policy being 
renewed.
Miss P also asks that UKI pay the final claim which was made after the fourth burglary. I 
cant agree that this is a reasonable request. By the point of the fourth burglary, it isnt 
disputed that lodgers had moved into the property. And so, as Ive outlined above, Miss P 
should have disclosed this to UKI. If shed done so, UKI would have cancelled the policy. So 
there would have been no cover on this policy in effect at the time of the fourth burglary. UKI 
doesnt need to look into this claim further.
Finally Miss P has raised a point about the conduct of the loss adjuster. This wasnt a part of 
her original complaint (except for her disputing the content of the statement which Ive 
addressed above) and so shed need to direct any complaint about that to UKI in the first 
instance for them to look into.
  
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint in part. In order to put things right, I order U K 
Insurance Limited to:Cease attempts to recover the amounts paid in settlement of the claims made on the 
2018 policy (the second and third claims).
Deduct the amount it would have refunded Miss P if it had cancelled the policy in 
April 2018 from the amount being sought as repayment of the claim settlement 
from the first claim made on the 2017 policy.
Remove any reference to the 2017 and 2018 policies as having been voided from 
any databases.
For the sake of clarity, I also conclude that UKI can continue to attempt to recover the 
amount paid in settlement of the claim made on the 2017 policy (the first claim), less the 
amount which would have been refunded as outlined in the second point above. It also 
doesnt need to consider the fourth claim further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman