DRN-3606651
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund the money she lost after falling victim 
to a cryptocurrency investment scam.
Mrs Ps partner, Mr C, is helping her to make the complaint.   
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties and Im mindful that 
Mrs P is struggling to come to terms with the impact of the events. As such, Ill provide an 
overview of only the most essential facts here. 
Between October 2020 and February 2021, Mrs P fell victim to a cryptocurrency investment 
scam. She made 12 payments, sending in excess of £185,000 to fraudsters.
When it came to light that Mrs P had been scammed, the situation was reported to 
Santander. The bank looked into the payments Mrs P had made but concluded it was not 
liable for reimbursing the money that had been lost. It said Mrs P had authorised the 
payments. 
Mr C complained about the banks decision. In December 2021, Santander issued its final 
response. It said it was unable to recover any of the money that had been lost and 
maintained its stance that it was not responsible for reimbursing Mrs P. It explained it had 
considered Mrs Ps personal circumstances at the time of the scam when reaching that 
position. Mr C referred the complaint on to this service. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter but did not recommend that it should be 
upheld. He didnt think Santander should have prevented the loss. He placed weight on 
recordings of conversations Mrs P had with the bank before two of the payments in dispute 
were made. He noted that Mrs P didnt provide Santander with clear answers to the 
questions she was asked and that she was determined to have the payments released. He 
didnt think the bank should have identified that Mrs P was in a vulnerable situation from the 
information it had. He recognised the difficult situation Mrs P was now facing, but he didnt 
think he could fairly suggest Santander could have prevented the loss or that the bank 
should have considered Mrs Ps claim under the provisions of the Lending Standards Board 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (The CRM Code).
The Investigator shared the call recordings with Mr C and explained why some of the 
information Mr C had provided, such as a HM Treasury Policy Paper proposing mandatory 
reimbursement for scam victims, did not apply.
Mr C asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. He was disappointed that the CRM 
Code did not apply in this situation and felt that it should cover all payments if it was created 
to protect and aid customers who have been scammed. He pointed out that whilst Mrs P had 
opened her own account to make the cryptocurrency trades, really it was for the benefit of 
fraudsters. 
He explained that hed provided detailed evidence about Mrs Ps vulnerable state at the time 
of the scam to the bank and explained her out of character behaviour but was disappointed 
that it had no bearing on the outcome. 
He confirmed that hed listened to the call recordings and acknowledged that Santander had 
made significant efforts to warn Mrs P this might be a scam. In closing, he pointed out that 
there was nothing preventing a firm from exercising its discretion to ignore the technicalities 
of the CRM Code and to reimburse a victim anyway.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in question that Mrs P has been the victim of a sophisticated scam. I am also mindful 
that Mrs P has lost a life changing amount of money as a result. Mr C has explained the 
money was Mrs Ps retirement savings and it is likely that they will now need to sell their 
home. I dont underestimate the emotional burden of this situation. But this alone doesnt 
mean that Mrs P must be reimbursed by the bank. I can only compel Santander to refund the 
money if it I think it is responsible for the loss incurred. Having carefully considered the 
circumstances of this individual complaint, I can see no basis on which I can fairly say that 
Santander should be held liable. I will explain why. 
Its not in dispute that Mrs P authorised the payments that she made in connection with this 
scam. The starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make. Although the money was not intended to 
go to a fraudster, Mrs P is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
But taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Santander 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that Santander should be on the lookout for unusual and out of character 
situations, such as a customer making larger payments then they would typically make, 
which can indicate that a transaction could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
In this case, its not in dispute that Santander had concerns about some of the payments 
Mrs P was making. There were occasions when Santanders fraud prevention systems were 
triggered, and Mrs P was prompted to contact the bank to confirm the payment she was instructing was genuine before it could be made. The question I have to consider is whether 
Santanders interventions went far enough.
Mr C has suggested that Santander could have done more, such as asking her to go into a 
branch to discuss the payments that she wanted to make or notifying the Police. With the 
benefit of hindsight, I can see why he feels those actions could have been appropriate. But 
having listened to the recordings of the conversations Mrs P had with Santander on 
11 December 2020 and 19 February 2021, I dont think Santander would have had 
reasonable cause to suspect the transactions were linked to a scam. 
When Mr C listened to the recordings of these conversations, he recognised that Mrs P 
came across as assertive and confident and that Santander did try hard to make her 
aware of the risks of scams. In the call on 11 December 2020, Mrs P explains that she is 
completely happy with the company that shes paying and places considerable emphasis 
on the word completely. From what I have heard in this call, I consider Mrs P to be assured 
and decisive with the transaction she wishes to make. She is very clear that this is not a 
scam. She explains that shes already been through double security previously and that 
shes frustrated with the level of personal questioning. There is a balance to be struck 
between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption 
to legitimate payments. Given the conviction of Mrs Ps answers, I dont think it was 
unreasonable of the bank to feel assured that she was not at risk of financial harm from 
fraud. 
In the second call recording, Mrs P speaks over the banks advisor at times and confirms 
that she understands the information and the risks before the advisor has finished explaining 
the key points. The advisor doggedly asks Mrs P if the money is for cryptocurrency investing, 
continuing to read the scam information in the face of what I consider to be dismissive and 
evasive responses from Mrs P. Whilst the advisor didnt give all of the information to really 
bring to life what a cryptocurrency investment scam looks and feels like, Im not persuaded 
that more fuller details of the risks would have likely stopped Mrs P from proceeding or have 
ultimately prevented further loss. Mrs P came across as someone that knew their own mind 
and that was well informed. Mrs P told the advisor that shed had the payee on my list for 
nearly a year now, giving the impression that she was much more experienced and 
knowledgeable about the situation than she was. From what I have heard, I consider it more 
likely than not that Mrs P would have proceeded irrespective of any intervention by the bank. 
This means it would not be fair and reasonable for me to find that Santander missed clear 
opportunities to stop what ultimately unfolded. As I dont think Santander should have done 
anything more in light of the information available to it at the relevant time, I cant hold the 
bank responsible and direct it to return the money thats been lost.
Ive thought about whether there is any other reason that I can fairly say that Santander is 
responsible for refunding the funds. 
Mr C has expressed disappointment that the CRM Code does not apply to all transactions 
made because of a scam. Hes pointed to proposals that may make reimbursement for scam 
victims mandatory in the future. I appreciate his sentiments in this regard. But it is important 
to note that I am not a regulator. I have no power to make or change the rules that 
Santander must follow. It remains the case that the CRM Code doesnt apply to all 
authorised push payment scams. I cannot fairly say that Santander is responsible for 
reimbursing Mrs P because of any obligation under the CRM Code when the payments she 
made are not covered. 
Mr C has explained that Mrs P was vulnerable at the time of the scam. Hes explained why 
the situation was out of character for her and provided supporting evidence from 
psychotherapists that have been working with Mrs P. He was concerned that the bank had not given this appropriate consideration.
Santander didnt know of Mrs Ps wider circumstances at the time she was making the 
payments. Even though it knows now, there is no legal obligation for Santander to reimburse 
a vulnerable customers funds. As Mr C has indicated, a bank can use its discretion and it 
remains good practice for Santander to investigate what has happened and to consider 
whether it would be appropriate to reimburse some or all of the money on a case by case 
basis, especially in situations where it is clear that its customer has been the victim of 
financial harm as the result of a scam. Santander has considered the difficult situation Mrs P 
is facing but concluded not to do anything further in this particular case. 
I have to be fair and reasonable to both sides in a complaint. I cannot fairly compel 
Santander to do more when the relevant law, rules, codes and good practice do not say that 
it should. I am sorry to have to deliver this news to Mrs P and Mr C. I know this wasnt the 
answer they were hoping for. I cant even begin to imagine the difficult situation they are 
facing now. But, for the reasons I have explained, I cannot fairly say that Santander should 
fairly and reasonably be held responsible for the loss Mrs P has sadly suffered. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman