DRN-3186037
The complaint
Mrs S says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a store card 
in 1998
I cant consider this complaint against the policy seller directly because the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller was 
acting as its agent at the time  so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken on that responsibility. To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked into this case and said they didnt think we should uphold it. 
Mrs Ss representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ss. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ss complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
I was sent the credit agreement Mrs S filled out when she took out the card and PPI. Ive 
seen quite a few similar sales to this and my experience is that the form was part of a wider 
leaflet which also contained the terms and conditions. I can see there was a section on the 
application leaflet about PPI. This invited her to place a tick in an option box to have PPI 
cover. Mrs S did this and also signed the form, so I think this suggests that she did want PPI 
when she applied for her card. Because I also think she would have had access to the terms 
and conditions as Ive described above, I think she consented to the PPI cover when she 
signed at this point. I think shed have been equally free to not have asked for the PPI.
AXA provided a non-advised sale. This means it needed only to provide enough clear 
information for Mrs S to decide for herself whether she wanted the cover. 
Its certainly conceivable that AXA could have explained the policy in more detail than it did, 
although I think Mrs S probably would have been able to see basic details such as the 
policys cost. Overall, I think she probably had enough information to decide what she 
wanted to do. Even if I accept more could have been explained by AXA, this doesnt make 
any difference to my decision Im afraid.
This is because the cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs S, for example she wasnt 
affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. So I dont think the policy was 
too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the information she was 
most likely given at the point of sale. 
Ive checked that Mrs S was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tended to see in some of these policies. The cost of the PPI offered was 
relatively expensive, but the benefits the policy offered gave more protection than most 
credit cards. For example, if shed become unable to work or lost her job, the PPI would 
have paid off 15% of her outstanding store card balance each month until she returned to 
work. I note what Mrs S said about having sick pay with her job. However, this doesnt mean 
the PPI wasnt of use as the above benefits were in addition to any other means she had.
I see there were some additional policy rules about the cover for back problems and stress 
related disorders. Ive noted her representative said Mrs S had whiplash in 1998, but it 
provided no details or evidence, so Im afraid I dont think this changes anything. I also doubt 
Mrs S would have expected to claim for a back problem, for instance, without first providing 
at least some evidence, which is what the rules required. 
Mrs Ss representative has raised a number of what I consider to be other general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ss representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of her individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. I have 
thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ss particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
complaint. 
This means AXA France IARD doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
My final decision
Having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 Michael Campbell
Ombudsman