DRN-2336224
Complaint
Miss B says MBNA Limited (MBNA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
Background
Miss B bought the policy in August 2002, shortly after applying for a credit card.
The policy cost 68p per £100 of Miss Bs outstanding monthly statement balance. And if she 
was made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 3% of that balance for up to 12 
months per claim. Or, if she was off sick from work, it would have paid off the same amount 
until she returned to work, or the outstanding balance was repaid in full. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Bs case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Miss Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
MBNA had to make it clear to Miss B that the policy was optional. And it had to get her 
consent before it added PPI to her account.
The original credit card application form Miss B completed has a section about PPI and gave 
her the option to select yes or no for the policy. Miss B chose not to have PPI at the time, 
so I think she was aware it was optional at this point.
MBNA says Miss B chose to take the policy during a phone conversation a few days later. 
Its provided a script it says its representatives were advised to follow during telephone sales 
 I think its likely this was broadly followed. The wording prompted the representative to ask, 
Would you like me to add this to your account today? which I think makes it clear, again, 
that the policy was optional. 
MBNA says the PPI would have shown on Miss Bs monthly statements. So, I think its likely 
Miss B would have seen it being charged to her account. And if she hadnt agreed to take 
PPI, I would have expected her to have queried the transactions with MBNA much sooner. 
So, I think Miss B knew she had a choice about taking PPI and that she agreed to take it 
during her call with MBNA.
MBNA says it would not have given any advice, but Miss B says it did. Miss B also told us 
she could not remember how the policy was sold, so I think its unlikely she would remember 
whether she received advice or not. Considering what I know about MBNAs sales practices 
at the time and the script its provided, I dont think MBNA would have given Miss B advice. 
That means MBNA didnt have to check the policy was suitable for Miss B. But it did need to 
give her enough information about the policy so she could decide whether to take it or not.
Its possible the information MBNA gave Miss B about the terms and cost of the policy wasnt 
as clear as it should have been. But from what Ive seen, Miss B was eligible for the policy 
and she doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the things that might have made it 
harder for her to claim on the policy.
Miss B says she was self-employed at the time of sale. But on the application form she 
completed a few days before the PPI was taken, she said she had been employed for four 
years. Our adjudicator informed Miss B of this and she didnt provide anything to explain the 
discrepancy. 
Looking at her application form, Miss B had the option to select that she was self-employed, 
but she chose the employed option and provided the details of her employer. So, based on 
what Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that Miss B was employed at the time of sale 
and that she wasnt affected by the self-employment terms of the policy.
Miss B says she would not have received any sick pay from her employer, but that her 
parents could have helped her to make her repayments if necessary. 
While Miss Bs parents may have offered to help, circumstances could change which means 
their help could not always be relied on. Miss B didnt have any other way to repay her credit 
card if she fell on hard times. So, although the policy benefit was low, and Miss B may not 
have known this at the time  I think the policy could have been useful to her. And I dont 
think better information would have stopped her buying it.
So, I dont think Miss Bs PPI was mis-sold, which means MBNA doesnt have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss B.
But MBNA has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss B because: 
MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss B about that. Because MBNA didnt tell Miss B, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Miss B.
But MBNA Limited does have to pay back to Miss B any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman