The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont credit his account with £1,850 of money 
that is missing as part of his past cash withdrawals.
What happened
Mr G went into a branch on 11 February 2020 and says that he had cash in sealed packages 
from past withdrawals which totalled £37,500. But when Barclays counted the money there 
was only £35,650. He told Barclays he had withdrawn this money over the previous five 
years. But it couldnt identify any discrepancies when he had.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that:
Mr G had told her that he withdrew the money as this allows him access to it and that
he kept it in a safe at home. He was unclear about exactly when he took this money
out and said that it could have been over the past 15 years.
Barclays could only look at branch records back four and a half years and this
service had time limits and which Mr G had accepted. Barclays had made reasonable
attempts to identify the deposits.
There were no till discrepancies on the dates of large withdrawals from Mr Gs
accounts including one of £55,000 in October 2015.
Barclays said it was likely that large amounts of cash would have been ordered from
the cash centre and when it arrived would then be checked by two members of staff.
The member of staff dealing with Mr G on 11 February 2020 said that the money was
counted and checked in front of him with another member of staff present and the
packets had no visible security marks from Barclays.
Mr G did not agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that the cash was in 
sealed bags but any markings had faded over time. He accepted that the money was 
counted in front of him when he went into the branch. But he says that he never opened the 
sealed bags and it must have been miscounted when it was sealed in the first place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to think about what is most likely and I wont be able to say exactly what happened. I 
dont doubt that this complaint is brought in good faith by Mr G. But I think he understands 
the difficulty now in trying to establish whether a mistake was made as he says when he took 
out cash in the past. Hes not sure when he took the cash out and accepts he did not check 
DRN-1888766it at the time. He says that because he received sealed packages from Barclays he believed 
the amounts hed been given were correct.
Barclays says it knew that Mr G was going to be bringing in cash for checking. And thats 
because hed questioned a previous withdrawal for similar reasons a few days earlier. So I 
think it likely it took particular care when he came back.
On 11 February 2020 Mr G brought the money in sealed yellow packages and wraps and 
Barclays states that there were no identifying brands or seal marks attached to these 
packages  its point being it didnt accept it had necessarily dispensed this cash. The money 
was counted in front of him. It records that some of the bundles of note[s] were short. 
It has looked at the audit information it has for the large withdrawals Mr G had made going 
back to October 2015. There were no cash discrepancies on the days it checked to account 
for this difference. It says that if notes had been missing from the bundles this would be 
noticeable as the bands would be loose round the notes. Money coming in from the cash 
centre would have been checked under dual control. And it would expect any discrepancies 
to be raised in a reasonable period of time.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened here. But Im afraid I dont have sufficient 
evidence to find that its most likely that Barclays made an error as Mr G says. I cant 
establish when this cash was withdrawn and exactly what happened to it after that over what 
may be a number of years. There are no discrepancies at Barclays identified that might help 
explain this. Given the substantial amounts involved I think it reasonable for any dispute to 
have been raised earlier. 
I appreciate the amount of money that is at stake for Mr G here but I dont have a reasonable 
basis to require Barclays to do anything further. I know he will be disappointed by my 
findings.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman