DRN-2870092
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the service he received from Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) after his cash 
wasnt dispensed from an ATM.
What happened
On 1 November 2020 Mr C tried to make a cash withdrawal of £500 from an ATM that didnt 
belong to Lloyds. This was unsuccessful and he called Lloyds to find out what had 
happened.
According to the information Lloyds had available the cash withdrawal had been successful. 
So it needed to follow a specific process to request the funds were returned to Mr Cs 
account. And, because its systems had recorded that £500 had been successfully withdrawn 
when it hadnt been, it recorded that the daily withdrawal limit had been reached. So in order 
to allow Mr C to make a cash withdrawal, the daily limit needed to be extended.
Due to queue times within each department involved it took almost two hours to resolve the 
issue. Mr C needed to stay on the phone with the advisor he was speaking to for the 
duration of the call because the call centre hed contacted was unable to make outbound 
calls for security purposes. At the end of the call the advisor he was dealing with offered him 
£50 in compensation for the inconvenience caused by the length of the call and a further £27 
to cover the cost of it. Mr C didnt accept this as he didnt feel this was enough.
He made a complaint to Lloyds about the length of the call and poor service he felt hed 
received. Lloyds first sent a final response in November 2020 addressing what it understood 
to be the complaint. Mr C has said he didnt receive this and called again to complain about 
the service hed received. Lloyds issued a further response in January 2021 confirming £27 
had already been paid to cover the cost of the calls and paid £30 in compensation for the 
inconvenience. Lloyds has since clarified this was an error, and the original offer of £50 is 
what shouldve been paid to Mr C and outlined in this response.
Mr C brought the complaint to our service and the investigator didnt uphold the complaint as 
they felt the compensation offered was sufficient. As Mr C didnt accept this the complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what I understand the initial error  the ATM not dispensing the £500 Mr C tried to 
withdraw  was not a fault with Lloyds, it was a fault with the ATM itself, owned by another 
bank. But even if it had been Lloyds error, when Mr C contacted it to resolve the matter it 
shouldnt have taken two hours to resolve things. I can see this wouldve been inconvenient 
for Mr C and I agree compensation is due. 
In addition to the length of the initial call, throughout this complaint and his interactions with 
Lloyds, Mr C has raised various other complaint points with Lloyds about the way he was 
spoken to by staff and how his complaint was handled. Hes said he was accused of lying, 
that Lloyds failed to contact him when it said it would and put him through unnecessary 
security processes. 
Having listened to all of the available calls between Mr C and Lloyds around this complaint, I 
havent found Lloyds has treated Mr C inappropriately or unprofessionally at any point. And 
whilst hes said the complaint response sent in November 2020 wasnt received by him, I 
can see it was written and correctly addressed to him. So I think its likely it was sent and I 
dont think Lloyds is at fault if he didnt receive it. 
Overall, I think the inconvenience directly caused by Lloyds is limited to the initial phone call 
in which Mr C needed to stay on the phone for two hours. I wouldve expected it to have 
taken some time to sort out the fault caused by the ATM, but certainly less than two hours. 
So its the length of this call Im considering when Im deciding whether or not the £50 
offered is adequate compensation. And overall, I think it was, so I havent asked Lloyds to do 
anything more.
Im aware Mr C doesnt feel this compensation is high enough and Ive carefully considered 
his response around this. Hes said that due to the two hour call with Lloyds he missed a 
football match, and a family meal and this caused his partner to be disappointed with him 
which caused further inconvenience.
I dont think Lloyds could reasonably foresee or be responsible for the problems the delay 
caused between Mr C and his partner. And given it was a two hour call and Mr C has said it 
caused him to miss the second half of a football match, its not clear how the call was solely 
responsible for him also missing a family dinner. But, when considering the impact of the 
length of the call, Ive fully accepted that Mr C was kept away from things he would rather 
have been spending his time doing. 
Mr C has also said he should be compensated much more because he didnt feel anyone 
would work for two hours on a Sunday for £50, so he shouldnt be expected to. He feels he 
should be compensated more in line with his salary. As Im sure Mr C would agree, he 
wasnt acting in a professional capacity when he was on the phone with Lloyds waiting for 
his withdrawal limit to be extended and the money returned to his account. Nor was he 
acting in a professional capacity when he made his complaint. And, hes told us the situation 
had kept him away from a football match and a family event, so it hadnt kept him from his 
work. Overall I dont think Ive seen any reason he should be compensated in line with his 
salary.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day to day lives, and a certain level of minor 
annoyance is to be expected when mistakes happen. In this case, I dont think what Mr C 
has described has impacted him significantly beyond every day inconvenience. So whilst I 
do think some compensation is due to acknowledge the time Mr C needed to stay on the 
phone, I think £50, offered immediately once Lloyds had resolved the problem as best it 
could, was sufficient in this case.
I want to reassure Mr C that I have taken his complaint very seriously, and I have considered 
everything hes said carefully, but I dont agree Lloyds need to pay him more than this.
My final decision
Lloyds Bank Plc should pay Mr C an additional £20 bringing the total compensation to £50 in 
line with its original offer. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman