DRN-2800311
The complaint
 Mr E complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont refund part of a payment 
he says he didnt authorise and about the service he received when he tried to raise the 
issue.
What happened
Mr E was making a purchase from an online auction website. When confirming the 
purchase, he says he arranged for the payment to be made in US dollars as his account with 
Halifax doesnt charge for transactions in foreign currencies and he would get a better 
exchange rate this way. But when he checked his statements, he saw the payment had been 
converted into UK pounds before being made. So Mr E says hes been charged more than 
he agreed.
Mr E complained to Halifax. He felt hed been charged an amount he didnt agree to and in a 
currency he didnt agree to, so Halifax should treat the payment as fraud and refund him the 
difference between what he agreed and what he was actually charged. Mr E says Halifax 
didnt respond to his complaint, so hes also unhappy about the service hes received.
Halifax said it was taking longer to answer customer calls due to the pandemic and 
apologised for any difficulty this caused Mr E. But it said it was out of time to dispute the 
payment and didnt agree to refund it.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and said Halifax wasnt in control of the 
currency the payment was made in, so they didnt think it would be fair to ask it to refund the 
difference in what Mr E was charged. They also said the service Halifax had provided was 
poor, so recommended Halifax pay £15 compensation for this and £3 towards the cost of 
calls Mr E had made. Halifax agreed but Mr E didnt accept this, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr E has sent us a screenshot of the purchase confirmation he received from the auction 
website, which shows the amount charged to his card would be in US dollars. And the 
statements for Mr Es Halifax account show the amount was converted to UK pounds before 
it was charged, so I accept that the payment wasnt charged in the way Mr E wanted.
But Halifax has no control over the currency in which a payment is presented to it. The 
response Mr E received from the auction website suggests the currency was changed by the 
electronic payment processing company, so that the currency was the same for both the 
seller and the buyer. And its not in dispute that Mr E gave the auction website his account 
details. So while I recognise he didnt intend for the payment to be charged in the currency it 
was, this is a dispute between Mr E, the auction website and the electronic payment 
processing company. We wouldnt expect Halifax to be aware of this, so wed still treat the 
payment as authorised by Mr E and we wouldnt expect Halifax to treat it as fraud.
Once it was aware Mr E was unhappy with the payment, we would expect Halifax to 
consider disputing it with a chargeback. A chargeback is a process by which a bank can 
dispute a payment made by one of its customers to a merchant.
But a chargeback must be done within the specific time limit set out in the chargeback 
scheme rules. And Halifax has said it was out of time to carry out a chargeback, as Mr E 
didnt give it details of the payment he wanted to dispute within the time limit.
I can see Mr E emailed Halifax several times within the time limit. And he says he called but 
the call was cut off. I think Halifax should have responded to these emails sooner than it did. 
But none of the emails gave any detail about the payment Mr E wanted to dispute. And I 
think Mr E could have done more to make it clear what issue he was raising, chased a 
response from Halifax or called in again sooner than he did. So I dont think it would be fair 
to say delays from Halifax were the only reason a chargeback wasnt raised in time.
And, in any event, a chargeback must be made for one of the specific reasons set out in the 
scheme rules such as goods not being received or an incorrect amount being charged. And 
wed only expect a bank to carry out a chargeback where there was a reasonable chance of 
it being successful.
Mr E has confirmed hes received the items he purchased. And given what the auction 
website told Mr E about the likely reasons why the currency was changed by the electronic 
payment processing company, it doesnt appear this was a mistake. So I think its unlikely a 
chargeback made on the basis the amount charged was incorrect would have been 
successful. And so I dont think there was a reasonable chance of a chargeback being 
successful here, even if it had been made in time.
I therefore dont think Mr E would have been able to successfully dispute the payment, even 
if Halifax had responded to his emails more quickly, or answered its phones. So I dont think 
Halifax should have to refund any part of the payment to Mr E.
But I do think Halifaxs failure to respond to Mr Es emails sooner or answer its phones was 
poor customer service. And I do think this poor service caused Mr E distress and 
inconvenience, for which he should be compensated.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think £15 compensation, plus £3 for the cost of his phone 
calls, would be fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr E 
was caused.
My final decision I uphold this complaint in part and require Bank of Scotland plc to:
Pay Mr E £15 compensation
Pay Mr E £3 to cover the cost of his phone calls
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman