DRN-1190121
 
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the total loss settlement MCE Insurance Company Limited 
offered and the excess it deducted when it dealt with a theft claim he made under his 
motorcycle insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B made a claim to his insurer, MCE which it initially rejected. This was dealt with under a 
separate complaint by this service and MCE dealt with Mr Bs claim as a total loss. Mr Bs 
motorbike was recovered following the theft but wasnt economical to repair.
Mr B complained that the valuation was too low and the excess MCE deducted from the 
settlement wasnt what he requested when he bought the policy. Mr B was unhappy that 
MCE had taken a 15% deduction from the settlement because his bike had been previously 
written off. 
MCE didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said the total loss settlement it paid, the excess it 
deducted and the deduction it took for the bike being a previous write off was correct. 
Mr B asked us to look at things for him. He valued his motorbike at £2,000 and said he didnt 
agree to an excess above £350. He was unhappy with the length of time it had taken for 
MCE to deal with his claim. He told us his Compulsive Basic Training (CBT) test expired in 
September 2019. As he didnt have use of a motorbike, he wasnt in a position to take a 
motorbike licence test before the expiry date.
Our investigator thought MCE had reached its decision as to the total loss settlement in a fair 
way and in line with our approach. And she thought the deductions it took were also fair and 
in line with the policy. But she thought MCE should pay Mr B £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience its delay of five weeks in settling the claim had caused. It offered 
a total loss settlement to Mr B on 18 July 2019. This was two months before his CBT 
certificate expired. 
MCE said it hadnt investigated Mr Bs complaint about a delay. So it said it would deal with 
this separately. After investigating, it paid Mr B £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Mr B accepted the £200 compensation for the delay. But he didnt accept the total loss 
settlement sum. Mr B kept his motorbike and didnt agree with the engineers categorisation 
of his bike. 
So Mr Bs complaint about the total loss settlement, the excess deduction and the 
categorisation of his bike has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr B accepted MCEs resolution to his separate complaint about delay, I havent formed 
a view on this in this decision. 
MCE doesnt have a copy of Mr Bs application when he bought his policy. So our 
investigator checked the comparison website online that Mr B used. Screenshots of the key 
sections of the application show that the excess is visible to a customer before buying the 
policy. However, I think the strongest evidence that Mr B was aware of the excess is a 
recording of a call between him and MCE on 14 July 2018. Mr B called MCE to say the 
model of his motorbike had been incorrectly recorded. The agent told Mr B;
"If you choose not to use the insurers own repairers, an excess of £300 will apply, which will 
be in addition to £1,050 under your policy." 
Mr Bs policy documents also highlighted the excess of £1,050 for fire and theft claims. So 
Im satisfied that Mr B was made aware of the excess under his motorbike policy. 
As the investigator explained, we dont decide a valuation for a vehicle. But we can look at 
whether an insurer had reached its valuation reasonably and in line with the policy. Mr Bs 
policy says the most MCE will pay in the event of a claim is the market value of his 
motorbike at the date of loss. This means it doesnt need to take into account seasonal 
adjustments which Mr B says can make a difference to the value of a motorbike. 
As MCEs total loss settlement was within the range of the main motor trade guides, I think it 
reached its valuation in a reasonable way and in line with the policy. 
The engineer who carried out a report on Mr Bs recovered bike checked its history and 
discovered it was previously a Category C write off. Mr B said he wasnt aware that his 
motorbike had been previously written off. A vehicle that has been previously written off isnt 
as desirable in the market place as a similar one that hasnt. So I dont think MCE acted 
unreasonably in reducing the total loss settlement by 15% to reflect the difference in the 
market value of Mr Bs motorbike based on its true history.
The engineer declared Mr Bs motorbike a category B write off which means it wasnt 
roadworthy. I understand Mr B doesnt agree with this  and our investigator explained he is 
welcome to provide a report from an engineer to say otherwise. But based on the information 
available, I think it was reasonable for MCE to rely on the expert opinion of the engineer who 
inspected Mr Bs motorbike. 
I understand Mr B retained his motorbike. As the investigator explained, MCE is entitled to 
deduct a salvage fee from the settlement if Mr B decided to keep his bike. Mr B has recently 
told us that his motorbike has since been removed by the local council and he would like 
MCE to make an offer of £130 as the equivalent cost of a new CBT certificate. He would also 
like MCE to allow him two years No Claims Bonus. 
Our investigator forwarded Mr Bs comments to MCE. It hasnt agreed to make any further 
offer. It said Mr B hadnt earned any NCB when he bought the policy. As he used the 
comprehensive cover by making a claim, he hasnt therefore earned any NCB. 
 
I appreciate that due to our investigation, further time has passed. But as I think MCE 
decided its total loss settlement in a fair way, I cant safely conclude that its responsible for 
the fact that Mr B wasnt able to complete his motorbike licence test by September 2019  as the offer was made two months before then. And as Ive said, MCE dealt with Mr Bs 
complaint about delay separately, which Mr B accepted.
I understand Mr B will be disappointed. But I think the total loss settlement MCE decided 
was reached reasonably and the excess was correct and in line with the policy.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman