DRN-3679668
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S, along with their son, Mr S, complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC will not 
refund around £96,000 that they say was lost as part of a scam. 
The submissions and responses from the complainants that Ive mentioned also include 
those given by their representative.
What happened
The three complainants hold a shared current account with Barclays. For ease of reference, 
Ive mainly referred to Mr and Mrs S (as the parents of Mr S) throughout my decision. 
Between August and October 2020, Mr and Mrs S made a series of payments from their 
Barclays account under the impression that their friend (who Ill call P) needed a loan to 
fund an overseas investment venture she was involved in. 
Mr and Mrs S had agreed to lend P money as Mrs S had known her for a number of years. P 
had told them that she had invested a vast sum of her own money in the opportunity and 
needed additional funds to finish the proposition and receive her pay out. So, Mr and Mrs S 
willingly sent what she asked for upon the agreement that they would get back what was 
paid. At first, this was to be in the region of £20,000 or so. 
As things developed, P asked Mr and Mrs S to loan her more money. She provided 
reassurances that they would get everything back. It appears that P also said she would pay 
more than what was lent as an incentive for Mr and Mrs S. 
P explained that she was able to do this as the investment scheme would prove very 
profitable  so Mr and Mrs S paid the remaining amount across multiple instalments. The 
payments were not sent to P, but instead to a number of different beneficiaries (or payees). 
This was all under Ps instructions, and Mr and Mrs S made all of the transactions by bank 
transfer whilst in a Barclays branch. 
In the end, Mr and Mrs Ss family became concerned about the considerable amount of 
money they had remitted and reported to Barclays that this was all a scam. When Barclays 
looked into a corresponding complaint, it said that this was a civil dispute that meant it was 
not liable for reimbursing what had been paid. 
Unhappy with this, the complainants brought the matter to our service, where one of our 
investigators considered everything. Having done so, he also thought it was a civil dispute 
and that the bank could not be fairly required to give a refund of any of the payments. 
Amongst other reasons, this was based on the friendship between Mr and Mrs S and P that 
had spanned (even just with Mrs S) over a number of years and the continued contact the 
parties shared after these payments had been made. 
The complainants disagree. They maintain that a scam has occurred, and that Barclays 
failed to take reasonable steps to protect the account. Because the complainants do not 
agree, the complaint has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Ive summarised the complaint very briefly and in considerably less detail 
than submitted by the complainants and Barclays. I can assure the parties that, while Ive not 
commented on every point, I have nonetheless carefully considered everything thats been 
provided. My decision just focuses on what I see as the heart of the matter and what I judge 
to be material to my outcome. This is not a discourtesy; rather, it simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service as an alternative to the courts and the decision I have reached.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Ive also 
considered the Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (the 
Code), which Barclays has committed to follow and was in force at the time these payments 
were made. 
Under the Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who
is the victim of an authorised push payment (APP) scam where (amongst other things): The 
Customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed were legitimate 
purposes but were in fact fraudulent. However, the Code also says it doesnt apply to 
private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier. 
So, the Code isnt a general protection for consumers against non-receipt of services. It only 
applies in very specific circumstances, where the customer has been the victim of a scam. 
With that in mind, for me to say that the payments in question are covered by the Code, I 
need to be satisfied that Mr and Mrs S really have fallen victim to a scam. 
Mr and Mrs S have always maintained that P was instructing things; the payments went to 
multiple payees off the back of P directing Mr and Mrs S to go into branch to make the 
transactions. The complainants have always maintained that it was Ps directions that led to 
all of the payments being made, having told Mr and Mrs S that it was required in order to 
help her with the investment venture she was in. To put it another way, Mr and Mrs S would 
not find themselves in this situation but for P.
Accordingly, in order to say that Mr and Mrs S have been scammed, I would need to 
conclude that P as the individual who induced them into making the transactions was 
acting with intent to defraud them at the point the payments were made. It follows that, I 
must be convinced that Ps intention was always to dishonestly obtain these payments by 
scamming Mr and Mrs S. The complainants have said that P was Mrs Ss friend in the first instance, having shared a 
place of worship with her for a number of years. This in turn naturally led to Mr S becoming 
acquainted too. P lived within the same community as Mr and Mrs S for a long time, knew 
their personal details and contact information, and visited their home numerous times. As I 
understand it, they had mutual interests and would often see each other over the course of 
around ten years. It's fair to say then that the relationship Mr and Mrs S shared with P was 
personal and not one that began with financial matters.
As far as Im aware, P had never asked for financial assistance before and theres no 
compelling evidence that Mr or Mrs S had any concerns over her credibility or sincereness. 
On account of the evidence, it strikes me as unlikely that P engineered this whole situation 
with an intent to deceive Mr and Mrs S over such an extent of time. Or, that she only became 
friendly with Mr and Mrs S with the long-term goal of stealing money from them. Overall, the 
circumstances are not indicative of the actions an individual would take who had the 
intention from the outset to defraud. 
All along, the complainants have submitted that money was paid to P on the agreement that 
she had asked for a loan. The understanding with P was to help her with an international 
business opportunity that she had invested in herself but did not have the means to input 
more. Hence, why Mr and Mrs S agreed to lend money to further fund the venture. 
There is no paperwork to substantiate that Mr and Mrs S were promised any particular 
returns on the money that was paid. It seems that no documentation was shared between P 
and them about these payments which could give rise to any binding contract or deal. 
Conversely, everything suggests that this can only be considered as a loan between friends 
 a loan that had no strict conditions or written terms. 
The complainants have made this office aware of conversations held between Mr and Mrs S 
and P some months after the last of the payments was sent. From whats been submitted, 
its evident that P was not still in contact because she was requesting more money to be 
remitted. But rather, to resolve the dispute over the money already paid. Its clear that P has 
persistently said that she will return the funds given, to the extent that things appear to have 
become emotionally charged and P had been described as resulting to desperate measures 
to fulfil what was promised. 
I have to bear in mind that this all took place some time since the payments were first sent. 
The point being, if Mr and Mrs S have been scammed, its highly unlikely that the perpetrator 
would still be in contact unless they aimed to extract more funds from them. There appears 
no compelling reason why P would go to such lengths to assure Mr and Mrs S that they 
would make good on a loan deal if their intention was always to steal money and they had 
already achieved that purpose. 
All of this does not indicate that the complainants have been scammed by someone who 
only wished to take money under false pretences. On the contrary, it resembles a private 
matter between individuals who have become entwined in sending money to one another; 
one which seemingly has a party that still believes things can be resolved through paying 
back what was borrowed. 
The complainants argue that at least towards the end of the sequence of transactions 
Mr and Mr S were led to believe that they were somewhat involved with the investment 
scheme, i.e. that it became their business opportunity instead of just Ps. Typically, 
investment scams involve a fake proposition and/or a fabricated company. The victim tends 
to have struck a direct relationship with the fraudster or at least has discussed the 
investment itself and so is somewhat aware of what it entails. By their own admission, Mr and Mrs S did not have an express understanding of what they 
would be getting back on their so-called deposits, such as a profit margin or degree of 
return. Indeed, in my interpretation, they have loosely described an agreement (for the later 
payments) whereby P was able to pay back more than what was lent because the 
investment was due to prosper. Which is not the same as participating in the opportunity  
but instead demonstrates that P was providing assurances that the borrowing would be 
repaid in full, with some additional funds on top (which is common with loans).  
This is reinforced by Mr and Mrs S being unable to provide any paperwork or 
correspondence that they themselves were linked to the investment thats allegedly turned 
out to be false. The complainants have submitted some written documents that mention a 
scheme overseas requesting money. Even so, this correspondence is addressed solely to P 
and only mentions her involvement in the so-called venture. Its apparent that P passed this 
information to Mr and Mrs S as a means to show why she asked for the loan. 
Crucially, there is no documentation Ive seen that asks Mr and Mr S to send money or to 
propose a return on deposits paid, nor can it be judged that there is an inextricable link 
between them and the supposed business project. Suffice to say, there is a distinct lack of 
evidence to support that Mr and Mrs S consigned the money for a specific purpose or goal, 
other than to lend money to a friend.   
I understand that Mr and Mr S raised the matter with the authorities. Although subject to 
change, at the time of writing this decision the Police have not found P guilty or convicted 
her for any crime such as fraud. Further information is being collated whilst enquiries are 
ongoing into the investment scheme, but at present I cannot safely rely on the dispute being 
raised with the authorities as persuasive evidence that P had an intent to defraud Mr and 
Mrs S, as there is no proof she has been (or will be) implicated for such an offence. 
Whats more, I cannot ignore that one of the disputed payments has seemingly been 
returned to the complainants account. In late October 2020, a £5,100 payment was made to 
a particular payee that Mr and Mrs S say was unknown to them (and was only paid as per 
Ps instructions). This exact same amount and payee name can be seen crediting the 
account in March 2021  some months after the alleged fraud was raised. 
I cannot fathom what the purpose would be in returning this sum after the payments had 
already been made if the money was paid under the guise of a fraudulent plot by P. It seems 
highly unlikely that a fraudster would return money after so many months. Without a doubt, 
its not in keeping with typical fraudulent behaviour, as scammers tend to extract as much 
money as possible from their victims  meaning that its very implausible that money would 
be reimbursed. But besides anything else, it appears that some of the complainants loss 
has been paid back.  
To that end, Im not satisfied that what happened can be categorised as a scam, or that the 
high legal threshold and burden of proof for fraud has been met. Im not suggesting that the 
complainants are not due entitlement to these funds that have been paid, or that theyve 
received back all that they were promised. I also make no finding on whether the investment 
venture in the background of this ordeal is legitimate or not. Instead, what I have decided is 
that I simply dont think that this is something that the Code was ever envisaged to cover.
As I see it, this is more akin to a case of friendship that has sadly deteriorated and ended in 
a disagreement over the promise of funds lent. It would therefore be better suited as a civil 
case where all parties can present their version of events and evidence. The Code was not 
intended to cover such scenarios, which is why private civil disputes are expressly excluded, 
so that banks cannot be held liable to cover the cost of a disputation where a consumers 
money could otherwise be recovered through civil proceedings. However, should it later come to light that this was in fact a scam and, specifically, that P 
was indeed in on the fraudulent scheme with the intent only to defraud (and therefore had no 
plan to invest the complainants money) I will say that Barclays will need to revisit this. 
For completeness, I have also thought about whether Barclays ought to have acted 
differently aside from adhering to the Code. But regardless of its other obligations, Im not 
satisfied that I could fairly direct Barclays to refund the money the complainants say has 
been lost. I say so because, Im not persuaded that if Barclays had employed further 
measures, including to intervene with the payments and ask reasonably probing questions 
about them, it would have made a material difference and stopped them from being made. 
One of the main reasons behind this is due to what we know the bank was told about the 
transactions by Mr and Mrs S. Several of the payments (including the one Ive highlighted 
above) were given references that do not quite make sense to me. They were referred to by 
Mr or Mrs S as loan, student fees and tools. Referring to some of the payments as a loan 
does correlate with Mr and Mrs S lending money to P (albeit indirectly). Still, there is no 
mention of fees to be paid to a student or educational organisation. Nor, have Mr and Mrs S 
ever provided a plausible explanation for why tools would be quoted. 
Bank staff ultimately have to make decisions based on the information they are given by 
customers and, under the circumstances, act appropriately to the scam risk in front of them. 
The level and depth of questioning ought to be proportionate to the situation and there is a 
balance to strike between carrying out reasonable precautions to protect consumers and not 
unduly delaying authorised payment instructions. 
In keeping with this, Mr and/or Mrs S could not have been subject to an interrogation by 
bank staff. They were aware that they were not paying accounts held by P and had given 
references that would not suggest they were making investments  thereby stripping 
Barclays of an indication that they might be embroiled in an investment scam. 
Despite this, Barclays did step in on multiple occasions and theres documentary evidence 
that they were told not to worry, as payments were merely being made to help friends out 
financially. Theres note of Mr S detailing that this was due to a loss of employment that 
acquaintances were experiencing (which was certainly not uncommon during the COVID-19 
pandemic that was prevailing at the time). Theres also record of other reasons given that 
conflict with what has since been submitted to this service about the transactions.
This undoubtedly influenced how Barclays would have considered the payments and meant 
that appropriate lines of questioning into investment scams might not have been fully 
explored. As a consequence of what bank staff were being led to believe, it would not have 
necessarily been apparent to HSBC that this had the hallmarks of a scam. 
All in all, theres strong evidence that Mr and Mrs S were unlikely to have been swayed from 
going ahead with the payments. Not least, given their apparent trust in P and what she was 
asking them to do, which is evidenced by their own admission that it took some time and 
persuasion from family members for them to accept that she might have had dishonest 
intentions.  
That being the case, even when weighing up whether the bank acted accordingly to protect 
the complainants from a scam which for the avoidance of any doubt I do not find was 
present here Im still not convinced that I could fairly require Barclays to refund the money 
the complainants say they have lost. 
Finally, I have considered the concerns raised by the complainants about Barclays actions 
(or lack of action) once made aware that they may have been scammed. Given that all of the payments were authorised bank transfers, there are only very limited 
circumstances that would mean Barclays could have successfully retrieved the funds. 
Barclays did contact the receiving banks and duly explained to the complainants that the 
payments were not recoverable based on the responses (or lack of responses) received. 
I find that Barclays acted appropriately in this regard; the bank employed reasonable 
endeavours to reclaim the payments and this proved ineffective based on the account 
holders at the other end. In most cases, whether money is returned is largely dependent on 
if the beneficiary of the funds agrees to send it back  meaning that being successful with a 
recovery attempt is not generally within Barclays control. I therefore do not find that Barclays 
acts or omissions meant the complainants did not receive their money back. 
In conclusion, Im very sorry to hear of the situation the complainants now find themselves 
in. I recognise the significant impact, both financially and emotionally, that facing a loss of 
£100,000 or more would have. However, for the reasons given above, I find no fair or 
reasonable basis to require Barclays to reimburse these payments.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S, Mrs S and 
Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman