DRN-4401472
The complaint
Mr L has complained about how British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) dealt with a 
claim under a home emergency policy.
Mr L is represented in this complaint but, for ease, I will only refer to Mr L.
What happened
Mr L contacted British Gas to repair his boiler. An engineer visited and said the boiler was 
beyond economic repair. British Gas quoted for a new boiler. Mr L also obtained quotes from 
other companies. While one of those companies was assessing the boiler, it found an issue 
with the hot water cylinder. So, Mr L contacted British Gas, who sent an engineer.
When British Gas visited, it said a new cylinder was required. It gave a provisional 
installation date for about three weeks later because it had to order the cylinder. Mr L 
arranged for his own contractor to fit a new boiler and replace the cylinder. He then 
contacted British Gas to explain this and to ask it to cover the costs, which were £5,873.
British Gas offered £3,500 to cover the cost of the new boiler and cylinder. But said that 
some of the work was an upgrade and other costs were excessive. So, Mr L complained to 
this service. Our investigator said British Gas didnt need to do anything further. He said the 
amount British Gas had offered was reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy. He also said that Mr L had been classed as a vulnerable customer and that British 
Gas had visited within reasonable timescales. But as the cylinder had to be ordered, there 
was a delay that was outside of British Gas control. He said British Gas had dealt with the 
claim and complaint reasonably.
As Mr L didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont require British Gas to do anything further in relation to this complaint. 
I will explain why.
Mr L was a vulnerable customer and British Gas has confirmed it was aware of this. Mr L 
reported an issue with his boiler at the end of December 2022, which involved a leak and his 
radiators were cold. British Gas initially gave Mr L an appointment the following day, but was 
then able to offer him an earlier appointment which took place that evening. The engineer 
assessed that the boiler was beyond economic repair and should be replaced. A couple of 
days later, Mr L reported an issue with the hot water cylinder. An engineer visited the 
following morning, which was about 13 hours after he reported the issue. British Gass terms 
and conditions dont specify how quickly it will respond to a request for an engineer. But, I 
think British Gas sent engineers promptly when Mr L contacted it to report issues.
When British Gas told Mr L the hot water cylinder needed to be replaced, this wasnt an item 
that British Gas kept in stock and needed to be ordered. The engineers visit took place on a 
Sunday and the following day was a bank holiday. The next working day, British Gas 
contacted Mr L to explain the current timescales for fitting a new cylinder. I wouldnt expect 
British Gas to stock every possible part and, in this instance, the cylinder needed to be 
ordered and would take a couple of weeks to arrive. I think British Gas took prompt action in 
ordering the cylinder and kept Mr L up to date on likely timescales. I havent seen any 
unnecessary or avoidable delays, even taking into account that Mr L was a vulnerable 
customer.
Ive also considered the engineers view that the boiler was beyond economic repair, as Mr L 
said the boiler was less than seven years old. Its my understanding that the engineer 
assessed the boiler and the repair record. He then said he thought it should be replaced. 
When British Gas replied to the complaint, it said it was not correct, based on Mr Ls cover 
and the age of the boiler, for the engineer to say the boiler would need to be replaced and 
could not be repaired. However, I havent seen anything to show the boiler could have been 
successfully repaired. Im also aware that Mr L replaced the boiler through a third party, who 
didnt seem to recommend a repair instead of a replacement. So, Im not persuaded it was 
unreasonable for the engineer to conclude that the boiler needed to be replaced.
Mr L arranged for his own contractor to carry out the work and then asked British Gas to pay 
the costs. The policy terms and conditions said customers needed to contact British Gas if a 
third party deemed a replacement necessary before they replaced a boiler and related items. 
Mr L didnt contact British Gas to say a third party would be carrying out the replacement and 
only made it aware after the work had been done. So, I think British Gas could have argued 
that it didnt need to pay the costs. Instead, British Gas offered £3,500 towards the costs. So, 
Ive thought about whether its offer was reasonable. 
The amount offered included £1,950, which was how much Mr L paid for the boiler. British 
Gas agreed to pay the full amount for Mr Ls replacement boiler, despite it assessing that the 
boiler was an upgraded model and cost over £800 more than the amount it had quoted for a 
replacement. It also agreed to pay £710 for the hot water cylinder, despite it having already 
ordered a new one, and £840 in labour costs. I think what it agreed to pay for these items 
was reasonable and that it included paying more than it would have paid if British Gas had 
replaced these items itself. 
However, Im aware this meant there were over £2,000 in costs that British Gas didnt agree 
to cover. This included the cost of some valves, a heating pump, an expansion vessel, some 
additional pipework and some Magnaclean. British Gas has said the material and full labour 
charged was in excess of a standard like-for-like replacement. I havent seen evidence that 
persuades me British Gas should have covered these costs or that it acted unreasonably by 
not doing so. British Gas could have replaced the boiler and the hot water cylinder, but there 
would have been a delay because of having to order the cylinder. Mr L arranged for the work 
to be carried out by his own contractor and only seemed to tell British Gas this when the 
work had been done. British Gas assessed the circumstances and agreed to cover the cost 
of the work it would have carried out, including paying for a more expensive boiler than it 
would have fitted.
Based on what Ive seen, I think British Gas treated Mr L fairly as a customer and made him 
a reasonable offer of £3,500 to cover the costs of the replacement boiler and cylinder, 
despite it not being made aware that a third party was carrying out the work. I also think 
British Gas engineers attended promptly and that the delay with supplying a new cylinder 
was outside of British Gas control. In my view, British Gas treated Mr L reasonably and 
fairly. As a result, I dont require British Gas to pay anything more than the £3,500 it already 
agreed to pay.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that British Gas doesnt need to do 
anything further in relation to this complaint, as the £3,500 it offered was reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman