DRN-3194259
The complaint
Mr M and Miss M complain about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of their home 
insurance claim for accidental damage to underground drains. 
What happened
In May 2017, when Mr M was in the process of installing a new staircase to the cellar, he
discovered that the bottom of it had rotted as a result of coming into contact with water. He 
made a claim to Aviva. It sent out some specialist companies to inspect the damage who 
advised that it was being caused by leaking pipes. Aviva arranged for estimates for repair 
and the work started in August 2017. 
 
The repairs to the drains were completed but Mr M was unhappy with the contractors 
method of work. It was agreed through the loss adjuster that new contractors would be 
brought in to carry out the reinstatement work, which included refitting the staircase and the 
downstairs toilet.
It took some time for Aviva to review the new quotes for the job. The toilet was reinstated 
first but the other reinstatement works didnt get under way until March 2018. Mr M was 
unhappy that a built in cupboard and shed were destroyed in the course of doing the work. 
He was also unhappy that he carried out some work to replace these but that Aviva hadnt 
paid him for his time in doing so. 
Aviva agreed that the service provided had been poor in some respects. It offered to appoint 
a new loss adjuster and to pay Mr M and Miss M £400 as compensation. Mr M and Miss M 
werent happy with Avivas response to their complaint so they referred it to this service. One 
of my ombudsman colleagues considered it and issued a final decision in August 2019 
covering the period up to the point when Aviva had issued its first final response letter. My 
ombudsman colleague thought Aviva had treated Mr M and Miss M fairly and reasonably so 
he didnt recommend that their complaint was upheld. 
Mr M and Miss M didnt think all their complaints had been addressed but we explained that 
we could only consider complaints referred to, and addressed by, Aviva in its final response 
of 27 April 2018. We said that, under out rules, other issues raised by Mr M and Miss M and 
not yet referred to Aviva would need to form the basis of a new complaint which Aviva must 
then have the opportunity to investigate before being referred to ourselves. We referred 
Mr M and Miss Ms further complaints to Aviva on their behalf. 
Mr M and Miss Ms further complaints were that:
there were issues with the removal of the downstairs toilet
there were problems with Aviva paying contractors
there are on-going problems with damp in the cellar
there are on-going issues with the downstairs toilet
there was poor communication between Aviva and its appointed loss adjusters
there were problems with items missing from the schedule of works.
Aviva looked into Mr M and Miss Ms complaint and issued its second final response letter in 
October 2020. It said it was willing to appoint an independent loss adjuster to scope for the 
works still required at the property. It also said it would cash settle the remainder of the claim 
because Mr M and Miss M had said they didnt want anyone appointed by Aviva to deal with 
the works. As this was the case, it also suggested they arrange for the works to be scoped 
themselves. It said it would then review their scope and cash settle the outstanding items. 
With regard to Mr M and Miss Ms complaint about poor communication, Aviva said that 
when its loss adjuster had visited the property in April 2018 they had told him to put the claim 
on hold whilst they had the house rewired. Aviva said it then heard nothing further from Mr M 
and Miss M until their second complaint was made in July 2020. So, it said, it didnt accept it 
was responsible for the delays with the claim. 
Aviva said Mr M and Miss Ms complaints about the quality of its contractors works, and the 
way the claim was dealt with, had formed part of their previous complaint to this service. It 
said it was sorry that one of its sub-contractors has told them it wasnt being paid properly for 
the job. Aviva said this was unprofessional and wasnt something that shouldve been 
relayed to them at all. Aviva said it was sorry for the issues theyd experienced and offered 
them £250 in compensation.
Mr M and Miss M disagreed with Avivas response to their complaint. They said Avivas final 
response had failed to address certain elements of their complaint and they said the 
following works remained outstanding:
an investigation into the leaking drain in the cellar
painting and decorating of the hallway and the replacement of the floor covering
a repair to the downstairs toilet along with the painting and decorating in the same room 
and the replacing of the floor covering
rebuilding of the garden shed
Mr M and Miss M told Aviva they had now started investigations into the damp patches on 
the cellar floor and possible leaking drains. They also said that Avivas offer of compensation 
was inadequate. 
Our investigator looked into Mr M and Miss Ms second complaint and issued his findings in 
February 2021. He said that the issue with the removal of the downstairs toilet (namely that it 
took too long to refit and that Miss M was having trouble accessing the upstairs toilet 
because of a disability) hadnt been conveyed to Aviva at the point the difficulties were being 
experienced. 
From Avivas file notes he noted that there had been a problem with paying contractors in 
around March 2018 which Aviva had endeavoured to address. He said hed not seen 
enough evidence to allow him to reasonably conclude that the damp in the cellar was the 
result of a poor repair by Aviva. He said he thought Avivas offer to appoint a new loss 
adjuster would allow an inspection to ascertain the cause of the problem. Our investigator 
thought this was a reasonable solution. Similarly he said he had seen no evidence that the 
problems Mr M and Miss M had reported with the toilet were the result of a failed repair by 
Aviva but he thought the offer for a new loss adjuster to inspect the issue was fair.  
With regard to Mr M and Miss Ms complaint about experiencing poor communication, our 
investigator didnt think, from the available evidence, that Aviva was responsible for any 
issues since April 2018. Finally, our investigator noted that he could see that thered been a meeting at the house in 
March 2018 when it was agreed that contractors would attend to re-decorate the stairs and 
landing and a further meeting in April 2018 where it was agreed that woodwork in the 
hallways and on the stairs would also be included in the redecoration. He thought the 
omission of these items from the schedule of works caused a delay in the completion of the 
redecoration but, as Mr M and Miss M were having the house rewired anyway, their 
omission hadnt caused them significant inconvenience. 
Overall, our investigator thought Aviva had handled Mr M and Miss Ms complaint fairly and 
reasonably by offering to appoint another loss adjuster and by paying them compensation of 
£250, so he didnt recommend that their complaint was upheld. 
Mr M and Miss M replied to our investigator to say that they disagreed with his findings 
setting out in some detail why that was. In short they said: 
Avivas notes on their claim are unreliable and not a true account of events
That they had previously told us about the problems with the downstairs toilet 
That they had now arranged for an inspection of the downstairs toilet, and that a 
replacement toilet was recommended. Two quotes were provided
The loss adjusters review of the CCTV footage of the drain was incorrect
It was untrue that they put the claim on hold in April 2018; it had been stopped by Aviva 
in March 2018
We cant limit which actions of Avivas we are looking at because of the previous 
complaint weve looked at
That theyd said previously their investigations into the cause of the damp in the cellar 
were ongoing and theyd recently been informed that their drains were leaking and had 
caused damage to a party wall. They said they were arranging for a building survey to 
assess the damage but in the meantime sent in a CCTV of a drain survey theyd had 
done
Mr M and Miss M said the only reasons there were still ongoing issues with their toilet 
and the drains was as a result of the poor workmanship by Aviva.
Our investigator looked at everything again and issued a second view but wasnt persuaded 
to change his mind. He said his view about the removal of the downstairs toilet and any 
issues caused by the delay in its replacement was unchanged; if there was an issue with 
Miss M being able to access the toilet, then he wouldve expected this to have been raised 
with Aviva at the time. With regards to the problems with the replaced downstairs toilet, he 
said hed passed the quotes to Aviva and it had said they provided no comment on what the 
cause of the problem with the downstairs toilet was so, based on the information to hand, he 
remained of the view that Avivas offer to appoint a new loss adjuster to inspect the toilet 
was fair and reasonable.
He said Aviva needed to review the CCTV of the drains after which it would respond to their 
claim. If they were unhappy with that response then Mr M and Miss M could raise a further 
complaint. He said his view about the poor communication and putting the claim on hold 
remained unchanged as there was no new evidence about this issue. Our investigator also 
said to Mr M and Miss M that once an ombudsman has made a final decision on a complaint 
the issues cant be re-visited or looked at again. He said that meant our service was unable 
to consider how Aviva handled their claim before 27 April 2018.
Mr M and Miss M replied to our investigator to say they didnt think hed listened to what 
theyd said and that there were errors in his findings that hed failed to correct. They 
repeated many of the points theyd made previously. They said theyd raised the issue about 
the removal of the downstairs toilet with Avivas loss adjuster in August 2017. If he failed to pass their views on to Aviva then that demonstrated there was poor communication. Mr M 
and Miss M said it was inappropriate for our investigator to comment about the ongoing 
issues with the downstairs toilet because they had agreed with Aviva that the remainder their 
claim would be cash settled so the issue of the cost to replace the downstairs toilet is one to 
be resolved between them and Aviva directly. They said they had sent a cause of damage 
report to Aviva regarding the toilet. They also said their first complaint hadnt been the 
subject of a full and proper investigation by my ombudsman colleague. They said they had 
successfully challenged his investigation (through making a service complaint) and received 
an apology. So, Mr and Miss M said this current complaint could include those issues that 
hadnt been included in the first ombudsmans investigation. Mr M and Miss M asked for their 
complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
Prior to the complaint being looked at by me, Mr M and Miss M sent our investigator a report 
prepared on their behalf in June 2021 by a chartered surveyor. Specifically he looked into 
the adequacy of the underground drain repairs carried out by Avivas contractors in August 
2017 concluding that there was a significant shortcoming in the drain repair work. He 
commented that a replaced section of underground drainpipe had been inadequately joined 
to an existing drainpipe. He thought this shortcoming would result in constant drain leakage 
and could only be resolved with further invasive works. 
Our investigator sent the report to Aviva for comment. He also issued a third view 
addressing the issue of the ongoing damp in the cellar about which he thought that Mr M and 
Miss Ms expert had been able to show that the repairs carried out by Aviva in 2017 were 
inadequate and had consequently caused the ongoing moisture issues in the cellar. He said 
that if the repair had been carried out properly in the first place then thered have been no 
need for Mr M and Miss M to arrange and pay for a CCTV inspection or a survey by a 
chartered surveyor. 
Our investigator said that because Aviva had entered into a contract of repair it must 
complete it to the proper standard. Because of the breakdown in the relationship between 
Mr M and Miss M and the previous contractor, our investigator thought that Aviva should 
appoint a different contractor to complete the works. He said too that Aviva should reimburse 
Mr M and Miss M the cost of their surveyors report and their CCTV survey and pay them 
interest at this services usual rate. Finally, for the additional inconvenience Mr M and 
Miss M had been put to he recommended that Aviva pay them a further £250 in 
compensation. 
Mr M and Miss M replied to say that our investigators recommendations were inappropriate 
because they had previously accepted Avivas offer to cash settle their claim so the 
appointment of any new contractors was for them to make, not Aviva. They said too that they 
had already provided estimates for repairs to the drains to us and to Aviva and that the 
damage was worsening. And they said that a party wall agreement needed to be put in place 
between them and their neighbours before the repairs could begin which Aviva would have 
to pay for. They said their surveyors fee was £2,142.22. 
Aviva replied to say it had asked its drainage team to appoint different contractors and had 
paid the recommended additional compensation to Mr M and Miss M.
Our investigator asked Aviva about cash settling the claim, as preferred by Mr M and 
Miss M. He also asked it about the costs of the worsening damage and the costs of 
obtaining the party wall agreement. Our investigator forwarded the surveyors invoices to 
Aviva and proof of payment for the CCTV survey. He also said there was an outstanding 
reimbursement due to them for the cost of rebuilding their hallway cupboard (for £840.45) 
which he asked Aviva to consider. Aviva replied and said it was happy to cash settle for the drains repairs and had asked its 
own contractor to provide it with a costing. It said Mr M and Miss Ms quote for the repairs 
was from a contractor that was known for being expensive. It said it didnt accept that it was 
responsible for all the additional damage given it took nearly two and a half years for Mr M 
and Miss M to raise the issues with it so it shouldve been sorted out much sooner. It said it 
would consider and revert on the party wall issue. And finally Aviva said itd paid Mr M and 
Miss M already (in April 2021) for the cost to rebuilding the hallway cupboard and that it 
would now reimburse the surveyor and CCTV fees. 
Mr M and Miss M then wrote again to our investigator to say that he wasnt up to date with 
what was happening with the claim. They said hed made no mention of the outstanding 
reinstatement works  namely for the replacement of the downstairs toilet, painting and 
decorating the hall and downstairs toilet, replacement of the hall and downstairs toilet 
flooring and payment for the cost of materials to rebuild the shed. They also said Aviva had 
already reimbursed them for the cost of the CCTV survey (with interest) so this was no 
longer outstanding. 
Aviva told our investigator that its original survey made no mention of the need for a party 
wall agreement. 
Our investigator then issued a fourth view on this complaint. He recommended that Aviva 
pay for the costs associated with obtaining a party wall agreement as it was clearly 
something Mr M and Miss Ms surveyor had identified as being necessary. He said he didnt 
think he could make Aviva reasonably pay for any additional damage caused by the ongoing 
leaking drains during delays that were outside of its control (he reiterated that he had 
previously stated that he didnt think Aviva could be said to be responsible for any delays in 
the claim after April 2018).
Mr M and Miss M replied to say they disagreed with our investigators recommendations. 
They restated that Avivas cash settlement offer (in respect of the drains) failed to include the 
other reinstatement works still needed. They said our investigator and Aviva had ignored the 
settlement for these works. They said Aviva should be responsible for the cost of repairing 
any future additional damage caused when the excavation works were carried out and for 
the cost of the party wall agreement.
Aviva replied to say it was happy to accept our investigators recommendations. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint relates to 6 separate issues Mr M and Miss M raised with Aviva after my 
ombudsman colleague issued his final decision on their first complaint in August 2017. To be 
clear, I wont be reconsidering any of the issues that formed part of that previous complaint. 
And, in any event, Mr M and Miss M set out the nature of their second complaint (as listed by 
me on the first page of this decision) so this decision is confined to considering them alone. 
I appreciate that the detail of their complaint is well known to Mr M and Miss M. I have set 
out quite a lengthy chronology of events in the what happened section above. But I dont 
need to set out every comment or point made in order to reach a fair and reasonable 
decision about their complaint. I have taken all the information material to Mr M and Miss Ms complaint into account in order to reach a fair and reasonable decision about it. If I havent 
referred to something specifically that doesnt mean I havent given it my consideration. 
I will consider each aspect of Mr M and Miss Ms complaint under a separate heading.
Issues with the removal of the downstairs toilet
The issues relating to the removal, replacement and reinstatement of the downstairs toilet by 
Aviva relate to a short delay in the works being carried out during which time the upstairs 
toilet had to be used. Mr M and Miss M say that Miss M had difficulty accessing the toilet 
because of a disability. 
The toilet was removed in August 2017 and reinstated three weeks later in September 2017. 
Mr M and Miss M raised their first complaint with Aviva in April 2018 and with this service 
shortly thereafter within which no mention was made of any issue with the downstairs toilet. 
Mr M says that in a letter to this service in August 2018 (presumably in connection with the 
first complaint) he told us that hed rung the loss adjuster numerous times about the refitting 
of the toilet and the difficulties Miss M was experiencing. He says he expected this service to 
have passed that information on to Aviva. 
Ive checked the loss adjusters case notes and I cant see any that there were any calls 
where this issue was discussed. I appreciate Mr Ms strength of feeling about his issue and 
his view about the reliability of Avivas record keeping. But I have no reason to doubt that 
Aviva/its loss adjuster logged the calls it received. And unfortunately theres no evidence that 
Mr M drew the issue of the inconvenience this was causing Miss M to Avivas attention 
before the second complaint was made in July 2020. 
That being the case, Aviva hadnt been given the opportunity to address the issue at the time 
it was going on. So I cant reasonably hold it responsible for adding to the inconvenience 
Miss M endured, when it knew nothing about there being a problem until over two years 
later.
 
Problems with Aviva paying contractors
Mr M and Miss M say that in March 2018 the contractors told them they didnt have enough 
money to complete the works. Mr M says he then spent time trying to contact the loss
adjuster to discuss this, but didnt hear back and didnt know what was happening with
the claim for 10 days.
Aviva accepts the conversation with the contractor about the payment happened, was 
unprofessional and shouldnt have taken place. It says that is an issue between it/the loss 
adjuster and the contractor. 
Its not our role to investigate the specific payments that were, or werent, made by Aviva to 
contractors. Were here to look at the handling of the insurance claim as a whole and 
consider any avoidable delays that have been caused by Aviva or their contractors. 
Whilst there does seem to have been a problem that was caused by Aviva and its 
contractors that could have been avoided, I can see that Aviva has apologised to Mr M and 
Miss M. I think Avivas apology is a fair and reasonable response to this aspect of Mr M and 
Miss Ms complaint and Im not minded to make it do any more. 
There are on-going issues with the downstairs toiletIn its final response letter Aviva said that whilst it was happy to appoint an independent loss 
adjuster to scope for the works still needed at Mr M and Miss Ms property, it also 
acknowledged that they didnt want anyone appointed by it to involved in the repairs. So, as 
an alternative, Aviva suggested that Mr M and Miss M provide their own scope of works 
which it was then willing to review in order to cash settle the claim. Its reasonable to assume 
this offer extends to scoping to rectify any issues that remain with the downstairs toilet. Our 
investigator said that, in the absence of any cause of damage report, Avivas offer was 
reasonable. 
I can see that Mr M and Miss M instructed their own contractor to inspect the downstairs 
toilet and provide a quote to repair it. That inspection took place in mid-December 2020. 
Photographs were also provided. I note that all this information was sent to Aviva in early 
February 2021. The report from Mr M and Miss Ms contractor says: Downstairs toilet was 
taken out and not refitted properly and is loose (moves from side to side) this needs to be 
refitted on [sic] a new toilet needs to be fitted need to make good around new waste pipe. 
Mr M says this report proves that the toilet needs to be replaced; I dont agree. I think this 
report shows that the toilet is loose and can be either refitted or replaced. There is no 
suggestion that there is any fault with the toilet itself therefore I cant see any reasonable 
need for it to be replaced. As the problem is with the fitting rather than the toilet itself, any 
cash settlement need only be confined to the cost of doing so. 
The issue with the removal of the downstairs toilet seemed to me to have been overlooked 
(and unresolved) in the latter stages of Mr M and Miss Ms complaint. I asked our 
investigator to contact Aviva and to ask if it would agree an amount could be included within 
the cash settlement for the refitting the downstairs toilet. As Mr M and Miss M are now 
aware, Aviva has agreed to do so. But, as it is Mr M and Miss M that have elected to cash 
settle then Aviva need only do so based on what it would cost its contractors to do the work. 
Under the policy terms Aviva is not required to base its cash settlement in such 
circumstances on the policyholders quotes. 
Mr M and Mrs M have also submitted a quote from a flooring contractor for a replacement 
vinyl floor in their downstairs toilet. Unfortunately theres no mention on the quote that the 
existing vinyl flooring has been damaged by Avivas contractors. In the absence of such 
evidence, Avivas offer to appoint a new loss adjuster to inspect any outstanding issue (or for 
Mr M and Miss M to scope/provide a cause of damage report) which still stands, is 
reasonable position to take. Im not going to make Aviva do any more in respect of the vinyl 
floor covering. 
There are on-going problems with damp in the cellar
Mr M and Miss Ms chartered surveyor produced a report that demonstrated that the ongoing 
damp issues in the cellar were a result of a poor repair by Aviva. Aviva has accepted the 
conclusions reached in the report and has agreed to Mr M and Miss Ms request to cash 
settle for the required repairs based on a costing prepared by its own contractor. That seems 
reasonable to me. 
Mr M and Miss M have said that Aviva should be responsible for any additional damage 
thats been caused as a result of the leaking drains. But I dont think I can fairly make Aviva 
pay for any expansion of the damage caused whilst the claim was delayed for reasons 
outside of its control. Aviva is responsible for the damage caused as a result of its failed 
repair.Aviva has paid for the CCTV survey together with interest at this services usual rate of 8% 
simple per year. It has also said it will pay the costs Mr M and Miss M incurred in instructing 
their own surveyor, also with interest. This seems reasonable to me. 
Mr M and Miss Ms surveyor has said that a party wall agreement is necessary before 
excavation works can commence. Aviva accepts this and has said it will meet the cost of 
obtaining such an agreement. I think it is only fair that it does. 
Mr M and Miss M have also said that Aviva should also be responsible for the cost of 
repairing any future additional damage caused when the excavation works are carried out. 
Im afraid I cant agree. I cant make Aviva liable for something that hasnt yet happened. 
And, if they accept a cash settlement for the remainder of the claim (rather than allowing 
Aviva to complete the additional works needed), Mr M and Miss M should be aware that 
Aviva wont retain responsibility for the standard or quality of the work of any contractor they 
themselves appoint.
Poor communication 
I dont think, from the available evidence, that Aviva was responsible for any communication 
issues since April 2018. I can see from the claim notes that in mid-April 2018 Mr M and 
Miss M asked Aviva to put the works on hold because they were having the house rewired. 
Aviva agreed to do so. Aviva didnt hear from Mr M and Miss M again until July 2020 when 
this, their second complaint, was made. The notes suggest that it was agreed that Mr M and 
Miss M would let Aviva know when the re-wiring was completed. So I dont think, given this 
was what was agreed, that it was unreasonable for Aviva not to have contacted them. 
There were problems with items missing from the schedule of works.
I can see that there was a meeting at the house in March 2018 when it was agreed that 
contractors would attend to re-decorate the stairs and landing and a further meeting in April 
2018 where it was agreed that woodwork in the hallway and on the stairs would also be 
included in the redecoration. These items appear to have been omitted from the schedule of 
works but as Aviva has agreed that these redecoration works are necessary, if its 
contractors never returned to do them, they should be now be included in the cash 
settlement to be paid to Mr M and Miss M.
I understand the cost of rebuilding the hallway cupboard (£840.45) was paid to Mr M and 
Miss M by Aviva in April 2021.
Compensation
Aviva paid Mr M and Miss M compensation of £250 for the issues theyd experienced and 
our investigator recommended a further £250 was paid to them for the inconvenience they 
were put to in proving that the ongoing damp issues were caused by Avivas poor 
workmanship. I understand Aviva has already paid this to them. 
So overall Mr M and Miss M have received total compensation of £500. All insurance claims 
attract a certain level of inconvenience; thats to be expected. But where an insurer, through 
its words or deeds causes avoidable additional distress and inconvenience, above and 
beyond that which is normally associated with an insurance claim, this service can require it 
to pay compensation. Ive thought about the avoidable distress and inconvenience Aviva 
caused Mr M and Miss M and I think that compensation of £500 is a fair and reasonable 
amount in all the circumstances. It is in line with awards made by this service in similar 
complaints and if the matter had passed across my desk without any such award having 
already been made, its unlikely Id have awarded any more than this. Putting things right
To put matters right for Mr M and Miss M I think that Aviva needs to do the following: 
Include within any cash settlement of the claim made an amount, based on its own 
contractors rates, to properly refit the downstairs toilet.
If its not already done so, to pay Mr M and Miss M the cost they incurred 
(£2,142.22), subject to them providing the necessary invoices, in engaging their own 
chartered surveyor to inspect the drains. 
oIt should pay interest on this amount at this services usual rate of 8% simple 
per year from the date the invoices were paid until the date it settles my 
award.
If its not already done so, to pay Mr M and Miss M the cost they incurred in 
instructing their own contractor to carry out a CCTV survey of their drains.
oIt should pay interest on this amount at this services usual rate of 8% simple 
per year from the date the invoices were paid until the date it settles my 
award.
Meet the cost of Mr M and Miss M obtaining a party wall agreement.
Pay Mr M and Miss M cash for the required repairs to their drains based on a costing 
prepared by its own contractor.
If cash settlement for the redecoration of the stairs and landing and the woodwork on 
the stairs and in the hall is yet to be made then it should be paid as agreed at the site 
meetings in March and April 2018.
Consider Mr M and Miss Ms other reinstatement work requests as presented namely 
for the redecoration of the downstairs toilet, replacement of the hallway flooring and 
the material costs associated with rebuilding the garden shed. 
If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should 
be provided by Aviva to Mr M and Miss M for HMRC purposes. 
Our investigator asked Aviva to pay Mr M and Miss M further compensation of £250, which 
for the reasons I gave above, I think was fair in all the circumstances. Providing it has paid 
this additional sum to them already  as stated  it need not pay anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to take 
the steps Ive set out in the putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Miss M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman