DRN-3590016
Complaint
Mr A is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse him the money he lost to an 
investment scam.
Background
In 2019, Mr A was researching potential investment opportunities. As a result of his 
enquiries, he was contacted by an individual who offered him the chance to invest his 
money. Unfortunately, this individual wasnt the representative of a legitimate firm, but a 
scammer.
The scammer had adopted a similar name to that of a legitimate firm to make the investment 
opportunity seem more believable. For the same reason, Mr A was asked to go through a 
series of anti-money laundering and verification checks, including demonstrating the origin of 
the funds and providing valid identification documents. He was provided with fake 
documentation, including an explanation of the bond he was investing in and a certificate to 
show that hed invested.
The details of the investment offering werent entirely clear  they were described as bonds. 
However, he was told that his investment had been made in new technologies, specifically 
the novel use of drone technology. He was sent a series of articles from financial news sites 
that indicated that this was a growth industry.  
He made three transfers in total from his HSBC account in the belief that he was investing 
his money. The total value of these transfers was just over £62,000. When one of these 
bonds was due to mature, Mr A attempted to contact the individuals hed spoken to initially. It 
wasnt possible to do so. He realised that he mustve fallen victim to a scam and so he 
promptly notified HSBC.
HSBC didnt agree to refund his losses. Mr A was unhappy with that and so he referred his 
complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who upheld it. The Investigator 
noted that HSBC was expected to be on the lookout for transactions that were out of 
character or where there was the indication that the risk of fraud might be elevated.
She thought that the first payment Mr A made to the scammer for £12,000 was a sufficient 
deviation from his normal account activity that HSBC ought to have questioned that payment 
before allowing it to be processed. If it had done so, she thought it was likely that the scam 
wouldve been prevented.
HSBC disagreed with the Investigators opinion. It didnt think that the payment was out of 
character and cited two other large payments made around the same time as the scam. It 
also pointed out that one of the payments made by Mr A was made into an account that is 
now subject to an Account Freezing Order. As a result, HSBC is unable return those funds to 
him.
Because HSBC disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and come to a final decision. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground here that Mr A authorised the payments in dispute. He was tricked by 
the fraudsters into making the payments in the belief that he was participating in a genuine 
investment opportunity. I accept that these were authorised payments even though Mr A was 
the victim of a fraud. And although he didnt intend the money to go to fraudsters, he is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts, and any payments made or received, to counter 
various risks, including money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism and 
preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk (among other things). This is particularly 
so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams, which banks are generally 
more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases 
declined to make the payment altogether.
Im satisfied that these payments were unusual and out of character. The first payment was 
for £12,000 and it was significantly larger than any of Mr As recent payments. While there 
were other entries in his statements that were of a comparable value (for example, a cheque 
for just under £8,000) none of these were account transfers. Im also mindful of the fact that 
this first payment was made to a new payee. 
I dont think HSBC shouldve processed this first payment without first making some basic 
enquiries with Mr A so as to satisfy itself that he wasnt at risk of financial harm due to fraud. 
If Mr A had been encouraged to carry out further checks (for example, the website of the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority), I think its likely he wouldve uncovered that the 
group he believed he was investing with wasnt authorised. Its website claimed that it was a 
trading name of a different business. That other business had an historic listing on the FCA 
register but hadnt been authorised to carry out any regulated activities from 2018 onwards. 
Furthermore, the returns that Mr A believed he wouldve received from these bonds were 
significantly out of line with typical investment returns, particularly since hed also been told 
that the investments were low risk. I think its likely an employee of the bank wouldve 
recognised that this was an indicator of an increased risk of fraud. If Mr A had been put on 
notice about the risk of proceeding, I think its highly likely that hed have opted against going 
ahead with the payments. 
Ive considered whether Mr A can be considered partially responsible for his losses here. In 
doing so, Ive considered what the law says about contributory negligence but also borne in 
mind the fact that I must reach a decision based on what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable. And having done so, Im satisfied that he shouldnt be considered partially 
responsible.The contact from the scammer wasnt unsolicited. Hed only been contacted because he had 
genuinely been online researching potential investment opportunities. The scammer was 
able to take Mr A through a convincing series of checks, something which hed have 
expected a legitimate business to do. The communications from the scammers were 
generally professional and credible. They had created a fictitious investment strategy, but 
they were able to give apparently sensible explanations for why they recommended Mr A 
pursue it and they supported their arguments with articles taken from well-known financial 
news sites. The website that the scammers created has since been taken down, but a cache 
of its index page is still available online and this shows that theyd created an online 
presence which had an air of authenticity and so Im satisfied that it wasnt careless of Mr A 
to have treated it as being legitimate. 
Overall, Im satisfied there was no contributory negligence on Mr As part and that he was 
simply the unwitting and blameless victim of a manipulative fraudster. 
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint.
If Mr A accepts my decision, HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay him:
The money he lost to the scam.
Interest on that sum calculated using the monthly average rate for a fixed-rate bond 
as published by the Bank of England for the month of June 2019. This calculation 
should be based on the entire sum he lost to the scam and calculated to run up to the 
date any settlement is paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman