DRN-2056203
The complaint
Mr W complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) repeatedly failed to identify the 
cause of a water leak and advised him to make unnecessary repairs to his shower that 
werent covered by the policy. Mr W said BG increased his premium at renewal due to the 
number of call outs made even though it was the same problem.
What happened
Another ombudsman at this service issued a provisional decision last year. He provisionally 
decided Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. He set out the background to the complaint 
within his provisional decision. I have copied his decision here.
 
Mr W had a home emergency policy with BG on a rental property. This provided for
emergency repairs for plumbing and drainage problems, but excluded most components of
the shower itself. In 2015 BG attended and made repairs to the shower waste.
In September 2019 Mr Ws tenant advised him of a stain on the ceiling under the bathroom. 
Mr W called BG, who sent a contractor, (Ill call it X). X suspected the shower drain. As the 
bathroom floor was tiled, X cut a hole in the ceiling to investigate. No leak was found and the 
ceiling was repaired but not redecorated. X said the shower should be resealed. The policy 
didnt cover this but X said it could do it. Mr W said he would he would arrange this himself.
The leak persisted. X attended again and reported the sealing in the shower was in poor
condition. X attended on numerous occasions. Mr W says various recommendations were
made about resolving the leak which werent covered under the policy. The shower tower
was replaced, which Mr W says cost £450. This didnt solve the leak, so X cut another hole
in the ceiling to investigate without success. X didnt repair the inspection hole, saying it
wasnt covered under the policy. Mr W arranged his own repair.
X attended again on 21 June 2019 and checked the trap and pipes with a camera from the
shower itself, finding no leaks. It did note a leak between the shower screen and wall. X
resealed this as a gesture of goodwill due to the many call outs. Mr W says X said it would
need to lift the bathroom floor to check, but the problem must be a cracked shower tray. The
policy wouldnt cover replacing the shower tray or repairing the floor.
Mr W says he asked a bathroom fitter to investigate. A faulty shower panel was identified
and replaced, solving the leak. Mr W says this cost £800. Mr W says his total costs
excluding the cost of the shower panel itself were around £1,150.
Mr W complained to BG about the poor service and recommendations. He wanted BG to 
reimburse his expenses. He also complained about the increase in the cost of the cover at
renewal. BG upheld his complaint in part. It agreed there had been many call outs and Xs
workmanship and service had been very poor. It offered £260 towards his costs for sealing
the shower and reinstating the ceiling and £50 for the inconvenience. It said the other costs
wouldnt have been covered under the policy in any situation so this was fair. It also agreed
to reduce the cost of his renewed policy by 20%.
Mr W didnt agree. He said costs had been incurred because of wrong diagnosis and advice
from X. He said the £50 for inconvenience was derisory as X had attended more than ten
times without solving the problem, considerably inconveniencing both him and his tenant.
BG reconsidered and increased its compensation offer to £90.
Mr W referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into it. She didnt think
BG needed to do anything further. She agreed that X had been poor but said there was no
evidence that BG had recommended the additional works, which the policy didnt cover
anyway. So it wouldnt be reasonable to expect BG to cover these expenses. She said she
thought the £90 offered for inconvenience was fair. Regarding the premium increase she 
said BG had issued renewal documents setting out full details of the premium. This gave Mr 
W opportunity to review everything and shop around for alternatives before renewal.
Mr W disagreed, saying Xs incompetence had incurred unnecessary expense. He said BGs
renewal premium was penalising him by £600 a year extra, because it treated follow up visits
as new incidents. As Mr W doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide (provisionally) whats fair
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning to
uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
The Renewal Premium Offered
Im not intending to uphold this part of the complaint so will deal with this first. Mr W says the 
annual renewal premium is £600 more than it should be due to BG treating the multiple call 
outs as new incidents rather than one ongoing problem. He says this because he has seen a 
comparable quotation for a new customer for only £522.
According to the renewal documents the premium for July 2019 was £1,020.76 compared to
£905 for the previous year. In its final response, BG says the premium was £1,121.63. But 
offered a 20% reduction to this giving a premium £897.30, so less than the 2018 policy year.
BG sent renewal information in its letter and schedule of 11 June 2019. This said the policy
would renew automatically on the terms offered on 15 July 2019 unless Mr W contacted it.
The documents show the premium compared to last year, details of the cover and other
relevant information and ask Mr W to check the level of cover and suggested he shop 
around for a better price.
I think BG has acted fairly and reasonably in providing this information in good time for Mr W
to consider this before the policy automatically renewed. Mr W says the renewal premium is 
more than the cost for a new customer. I dont doubt what he says here as it is clear from the 
policy terms and conditions (T&Cs) that BG offer discounts for new customers:
Introductory offers
If you cancel a product, then buy a product with equivalent features from British Gas:
 More than once in three years
 Or, within three months
then you wont be eligible for any promotional offers or new customer prices.
A business can adopt this type of pricing strategy if it chooses and it is for customers to
decide whether the renewal premium offered is competitive. The renewal invitation did 
suggest Mr W shop around for a lower price. As such I dont think BG is treating Mr W 
unreasonably, he could have looked at other cover. So I wont be asking BG to do anymore.
The Attempted RepairsIm intending to uphold this part of the complaint in part. I'll explain why. Sometimes water 
leaks can be difficult to trace without significant investigations so some inconvenience is 
inevitable. Whilst the policy didnt cover the work necessary to solve the problem, BG 
accepts the service and workmanship of X was very poor and I think Mr W suffered more 
inconvenience than he should have as result.
Mr W says works were recommended by X but BGs system notes dont record that. And
even if they did the policy didnt provide cover for them. So I dont think it is reasonable to
hold BG responsible for the cost of works undertaken that were outside the scope of the
policy. This type of policy is aimed at sudden emergencies more like a burst pipe or blocked
drain and in this case the policy only covered leaks from the shower drain.
And X was persistent in seeking to link the problem to the drain, cutting two holes in the
ceiling below before finally putting a camera down the shower waste. I think its likely that X
either made or was asked for suggestions by Mr W as to possible causes of the leak. But the
only recommendation evidenced in BGs notes, is to reseal the shower. So I dont think it is
reasonable to say other work was recommended by BG with it to be held liable for the
outcome. These works werent covered by the policy and Mr W was aware of that.
Mr W hasnt advised who replaced the shower tower for him. If he used a contractor, I think it
is reasonable to assume that Mr W would have asked them if this was likely to be a source
of the leak before this work began. As it went ahead, I think it is reasonable to assume that it
was felt to be a possibility.
The contractor who identified the defective shower panel had the benefit of Xs drainage
investigations and replacement of the shower tower, narrowing sources of the leak. I havent 
seen details of the issue with the shower panel. But if the defect wasnt apparent to Mr W, 
his tenant and X on numerous visual inspections, I think it demonstrates it wasnt obvious.
However with X repeating the same investigations, particularly without repairing the damage
done to gain access, I think Mr W suffered more inconvenience than he should have. So, 
whilst I think BGs offer in respect of Mr Ws costs is reasonable as it covers making good 
X's investigations. I dont think the offer of £90 for inconvenience is fair compensation for 
what BG itself calls very poor workmanship and service. I think this should be increased to 
£250. I understand this is less than Mr W wants but I think it is reasonable in this case.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, my provisional decision is that I plan to uphold the complaint 
about British Gas Insurance Limited in part. I intend to direct British Gas Insurance Limited to 
pay a further £160 to give £250 in total compensation for Mr Ws trouble and upset.
  
The parties responses to the provisional decision
Mr W responded that he hadnt changed policies because the issue was ongoing, and he 
believed that BG would take the opportunity to end any involvement. He said he had 
provided a copy invoice from the bathroom contractor who offered a fixed price. He said he 
had never claimed anything which wasnt covered under the policy, but the costs remain 
significantly higher than the total compensation being offered.
BG said it had reviewed the provisional decision and agreed that Mr W had encountered 
inconvenience in dealing with the escape of water. BG said it wanted to offer Mr W an 
additional £60 to bring its total gesture of goodwill up to £150, which it said would be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.As the ombudsman who wrote the provisional decision wasnt in a position to issue a final 
decision, the complaint was passed to me. As Ive explained below, I think the complaint 
should be upheld, and Ive set out my reasons here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I am of the view that the 
complaint should be upheld and for the reasons given by the ombudsman in his provisional 
decision. I will explain my reasons.
I have looked at the renewal information BG sent Mr W and the premium it charged. Our 
service cant tell insurers what to charge as this is a commercial decision they are entitled to 
make, but we will look to see that a policyholder has been treated fairly. The documents 
show the premium compared to last year, details of the cover and other relevant information 
and ask Mr W to check the level of cover and suggest he shop around for a better price.
Mr W said the renewal premium is more than the cost for a new customer. I think thats likely 
to be correct as insurers offer big discounts to new customers which may be recovered in 
subsequent years. It is clear from the policy terms and conditions that BG offer discounts for 
new customers. The insurance market is very open and its a policyholders responsibility to 
obtain the cover required at an acceptable price. 
Although BG increased Mr Ws premium, he wasnt obliged to accept this, and I dont think 
BG treated him any differently than it would any other policyholder in his situation. However, 
I understand Mr Ws point about not ending the policy while the problem was ongoing.
I sympathise with Mr W for the problems he suffered with his shower and the failure to 
identify the cause of the leak. I agree with him that this wasnt a series of single issues but 
one problem that remained unresolved due to poor work by BGs contractor. Im pleased that 
BG has acknowledged that he suffered inconvenience and poor service. But I dont think the 
increased compensation it has offered is quite enough in the circumstances.
Although the remedial work to the shower wasnt covered under Mr Ws policy, he was put to 
a lot of inconvenience and expense by recommendations of repairs that were poorly targeted 
and failed to deal with the problem. This was demonstrated when Mr W employed his own 
contractor and the problem was quickly resolved. 
I think Mr W was entitled to expect a higher level of competence and attention from BG and 
its contractors. I think BGs offer to Mr W in respect of his costs on the abortive repairs is fair 
in the circumstances as it goes some way to meeting the costs he incurred. If Mr W accepts 
this decision and that sum hasnt already been paid then BG should pay Mr W without delay. 
I cant award Mr W the further costs he incurred beyond those that he claimed, as some of 
this work wasnt required of BG under the policy, but I can recognise the trouble and upset 
this situation caused him. I think the compensation put forward by the other ombudsman 
recognises this, and so BG should pay Mr W further compensation of £160.
 My final decision
For the reasons I have given above and within the provisional decision it is my final decision 
that the complaint is upheld. I require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr W further compensation of £160 to give him £250 in total in respect of the trouble and upset British 
Gas Insurance Limited has caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman