DRN-4094360
The complaint
Mrs and Mr B are unhappy with how theyve been treated by Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays) in relation to their mortgage. They say that the time they were made to wait for an 
appointment with a mortgage adviser has led to them paying more interest on their 
mortgage.
What happened
Mrs and Mr B already held a mortgage with Barclays when they decided they wanted to 
change product. They were on a variable rate and wanted to move to a fixed rate instead. 
Mrs and Mr B say they tried to do this online on 27 September 2022 but found they couldnt 
and that they needed to contact Barclays by telephone. Mrs and Mr B say they rang the next 
day and that, after spending a long time in the queue, they finally got through to speak to 
someone. Mrs and Mr B were told that in order to change to a fixed rate, they would need an 
appointment with a mortgage adviser and that the next available appointment wasnt until 
19 October 2022. Mrs and Mr B say they felt they had no choice but to accept this.
Mrs and Mr B were advised on 17 October 2022 that the appointment could still take place 
on 19 October 2022, but it would need to be earlier in the day than originally scheduled due 
to a staffing issue. This wasnt very convenient for Mr B given it was a working day, but they 
were keen to get things sorted so accepted the revised time. It became apparent that 
Mrs Bs details werent up to date and that she needed to visit a branch to sort this out 
before things could be finalised. 
Another appointment with the mortgage adviser took place on 21 October 2022 and the 
mortgage was switched to a fixed rate deal. 
Mrs B and Mr B complained to Barclays that it should have been easier to switch their 
interest rate and that the delay in being able to speak to a mortgage adviser had led to them 
paying £127 per month more on their mortgage. They couldnt see why it had been 
necessary to speak to a mortgage adviser as what they wanted to do was straightforward. 
They also said Barclays shouldve known before the first appointment that Mrs Bs details 
werent up to date and that this needed addressing. 
Barclays upheld the complaint in part. It agreed that it ought to have spotted that Mrs Bs 
details werent up to date and that this had caused a two day delay in the application being 
completed. It said this hadnt resulted in any financial loss but it offered £50 in compensation 
as an apology for the poor service. 
It didnt however agree that it had made any error in terms of the rate Mrs and Mr B ended 
up with. It said that a switch from a variable rate to a fixed rate had to be done via a 
mortgage adviser and that the wait for an appointment was down to high customer demand 
at the time. Mrs and Mr B remained unhappy and referred their concerns to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
An investigator here issued an assessment. In summary, they said that the £50 
compensation offered was fair in the circumstances and that they didnt think Barclays 
needed to do anything further to put things right.
Mrs and Mr B didnt accept this and asked for the case to be passed to an Ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall outcome as the investigator, for largely the 
same reasons. I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mrs and Mr B, but hope that my 
explanation helps them to understand why Ive reached this conclusion. 
Before I explain why, I want to set out my role as an Ombudsman. It isnt to address every 
single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and reasonable given 
the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to what I 
think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my reasons for reaching 
them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I will continue to keep in 
mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to this complaint, when 
doing that.
I can completely understand Mrs and Mr Bs disappointment that the rate they got was 
higher than the one they tried to apply for on-line and found that they couldnt. However, in 
order to uphold their complaint on this substantive issue, I would need to conclude that 
Barclays has made an error or otherwise treated Mrs and Mr B unfairly. I dont find this to be 
the case. 
Mrs and Mr B have raised two key issues. First, they dont consider it was necessary to 
speak to a mortgage adviser in order to switch their rate. They say the adviser didnt need to 
ask anything of note and that their circumstances hadnt changed. Second, the three week 
wait to speak to an adviser is down to Barclays staffing and they should not have ended up 
needing to pay more because of this. 
On the first point, Barclays policy is that only like for like rate switches can be done online 
without first speaking to a mortgage adviser. I appreciate that Mrs and Mr B dont think this 
was necessary, however Barclays is entitled to have such a policy and I dont think there 
was anything unfair about it applying its usual policy here. 
On the second point, whilst a three week wait for an appointment wasnt ideal, in the context 
of the economic climate at the time  and the higher than usual demand this will likely have 
caused - I dont find on balance that it represents an error on Barclays part. Mrs and Mr B 
were given the earliest available appointment and they were being treated in the same way 
as any other customer. So whilst I can understand Mrs and Mr Bs viewpoint on the 
substantive issue, I dont find that Barclays has made an error or otherwise treated them 
unfairly. 
On the other issue of Mrs Bs details not being up to date, Barclays has conceded that it 
ought to have realised this at the point of booking the appointment with the adviser. It admits 
that it caused a two day delay as a result. It says this delay didnt result in Mrs and Mr B 
losing out financially but offered £50 as an apology.
I find that the £50 offered is fair in the circumstances and in line with our approach to 
compensation awards. I say this because Mrs B would always have needed to update her details at some point and the two day delay represents minor inconvenience in the context of 
the overall situation. 
In conclusion, whilst I do understand why Mrs and Mr B have found the overall situation to 
be frustrating and that they believe theyve ended up needing to pay more than they might 
have done, I dont consider this is down to an error by Barclays and it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to say that Barclays needs to make good what they see as their loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Bs complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman