DRN-3177082
The complaint
Ms B complains that Allianz Insurance Plc failed to provide her and her family with 
alternative accommodation, or an allowance in lieu of alternative accommodation, following 
two home insurance claims. 
What happened
Ms B discovered a leak in her shower room in early July 2016 and she made a claim under 
her home insurance policy to Allianz. A bathroom, master bedroom and en-suite bathroom 
were damaged. Allianz accepted the claim and appointed contractors to dry and strip the 
property. In August 2016 Ms Bs home suffered storm damage so Ms B made a second 
claim to Allianz which it also accepted. There was damage to the living and dining rooms.  
Allianz appointed two separate loss adjusters, from two different companies, to handle the 
claims. 
There were delays throughout the claims, and it wasnt until February 2018 that the escape 
of water claim was settled. Ms B found it difficult to keep track of which contractor was 
responsible for which repairs because each claim was being handled separately. 
Ms B and her three children remained living in the property throughout and she says she 
didnt think alternative accommodation would be required because she was assured the 
claims would only take a few months resolve. But during the strip out and reinstatement Ms 
B and her family only had access to a very small shower room. And whilst the kitchen was 
unaffected, the hallway leading to two bedrooms was damaged rendering those rooms 
inaccessible. This meant there was only one bedroom, a box-room and the landing for the 
four of them to use for sleeping. 
The only operational shower room was at the far end of the house and was small and only 
ever intended for occasional use rather than daily use by four people. The small shower 
room had no electrical ventilation so condensation built up very quickly unless the small 
window was left open when the room was in use. Ms B and her family had to shower with 
the window open throughout the winters of 2016 and 2017. 
Ms B became unhappy with the length of time that she and her family had to live in 
hazardous conditions, so in November 2017 she asked Allianz about moving to alternative 
accommodation. The loss adjuster advised that this could be arranged if required. Ms B said 
she was instead making a claim for alternative accommodation at £40 day from the start of 
the claim. She said that totalled £24,400. The loss adjuster let Allianz know what Ms B was 
claiming. 
Ms B said to Allianz that had she known they would have been subjected to these terrible 
conditions for so long, she would have requested alternative accommodation far sooner. But 
as she was consistently told that it wouldnt be much longer before her home was restored, 
she decided to stay in the house. 
The loss adjuster for the escape of water claim pointed out to Ms B that alternative 
accommodation wasnt warranted as shed retained cooking, washing, and sleeping facilities 
at the property. 
Ms B complained to Allianz. She said that on reflection, she felt that due to the length of time 
her family had to live in such difficult conditions, she wanted to receive some compensation.
Allianz looked into Ms Bs complaint and accepted that there had been some communication 
issues during the claim that had caused some delays. Allianz paid Ms B compensation of 
£250 for this. It said that as there had been no loss of essential facilities at the property, it 
thought its loss adjuster had correctly declined Ms Bs request for alternative 
accommodation and/or a disturbance allowance. 
Unhappy with the outcome of her complaint to Allianz, Ms B complained to this service. She 
said she was seeking payment in lieu of alternative accommodation and compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. Our investigator looked into the complaint, making further 
enquires of Allianz in the process. He recommended that Allianz pay Ms B further 
compensation of £2,000 for the significant amount of distress and inconvenience its handling 
of the claims had had on her and her family and the fact that it shouldve offered her 
alternative accommodation at least whilst the bathroom was reinstated.
Allianz accepted our investigators recommendation but Ms B didnt. She said she could 
accept £2,000 compensation for how the two claims had been handled but she didnt accept 
that thered been a recommendation Allianz pay her an amount in lieu of alternative 
accommodation. She said the family had had to shower in freezing conditions, that shed 
suffered sleep disturbance as a result of having to get up to escort the children to the 
bathroom at the far end of the house, that they were at risk of respiratory infections, there 
were cold draughts and a lack a of heating. Ms B said the claim shouldve taken about 6 
months to resolve so she wasnt seeking compensation for the full duration of the claim. 
Our investigator thought about Ms Bs response and said her complaint wasnt about the 
way the claims had been handled; it was about the fact Allianz hadnt provided alternative 
accommodation. He said compensation for distress and inconvenience wasnt intended to 
mirror what an insurer wouldve expended on alternative accommodation, but rather to 
recognise the inconvenience of having to live in difficult conditions for an extended period of 
time. 
Ms B said she couldnt accept that Allianz should benefit by not accommodating her 
elsewhere. She said there was legal precedent for compensation in lieu of alternative 
accommodation when the insured remains at the property. Our investigator explained that 
this service followed its own guidance when making compensation awards as an alternative 
to the courts.
Ms B replied to say that £2,000 was derisory in the context of the number of persons 
affected. She said the four of them should receive £2,000 each. Our investigator said he 
remained of the view that £2,000 was fair and, as Ms B disagreed, he would refer the 
complaint to an ombudsman for a decision. 
Ms B asked our investigator if hed reviewed the photographs of the evidence shed sent in. 
Our investigator said he had and his view remained unchanged.  
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about Ms Bs request to Allianz that it provide her with an amount of money 
in lieu of the fact it hadnt provided her with alternative accommodation and the distress and 
inconvenience shed been caused. It isnt a complaint about the way that Allianz handled the 
two claims in general. 
I can see a claim was raised with Allianz on 15 July 2016. However, looking through the
timeline notes of the claim, it isnt clear to me why it took just over 18 months to agree 
settlement with Ms B. Whilst Allianz has said at times it was difficult to get hold of Ms B on 
the phone to discuss the claim and only received limited replies by email its not provided 
any specific examples of this. Similarly, Allianz has provided no evidence that Ms B refused 
to sign the contractors mandate or caused delays to the reinstatement works because she 
wanted to go through the scope of works herself. 
There is evidence that Ms B called Allianz to chase progress of the claim but none for why 
there were delays to the early part of the claim. 
Ive seen evidence of the damage caused and can appreciate how, given the fact there were 
two claims running concurrently, things could get confusing and un-necessarily complex. It 
remains unclear to me though why Allianz didnt use the same loss adjusting company (or 
even the same loss adjuster) to handle the two claims. To do so would seem to be the most 
logical way to me to proceed and wouldve avoided the need, some way into both claims, to 
assign a project manager to try and streamline communications between all concerned. So, I 
can therefore appreciate how frustrating and inconvenient this all must have been for Ms B
Allianz says it declined Ms Bs request for a back payment for alternative accommodation 
because it was of the view that there was no disruption to sleeping, cooking or washing 
facilities such as wouldve necessitated moving the family out of the home. It says that 
Ms Bs house was a five-bedroom property and only one bedroom, the shower room and 
bathroom were out of action. Allianz has said there were four other bedrooms available, that 
the kitchen was unaffected and there was another shower room in the property.
Ms B has explained though that bedrooms one, two and three, and the shower room and
bathroom are all at one end of the property. Shes said that the damage was caused to 
bedroom one, the shower room and bathroom, and that the corridor used to access 
bedrooms one, two and three was affected too and left in a dangerous state for a long period 
of time. So shes said it wasnt safe for her children to use to access bedrooms two and 
three. Consequently, Ms B says they were left to share one bedroom, a small boxroom, and 
the landing for sleeping. 
Allianz says Ms B didnt mention this at all throughout the claim process, nor were the 
sleeping arrangements witnessed by any of the contractors who visited the property. 
Unfortunately, Ms B has been unable to provide us with any photographs of the conditions 
she and her children were living in. Whilst Ive thought about what Ms B has said about this 
matter, without documentary evidence of what the family were experiencing I cant know 
exactly what those conditions were like at the time. 
Allianz told our investigator that alternative accommodation could have been offered given 
the lack of fully adequate washing facilities. Ms B has also explained the only operational 
shower room was off the kitchen and didnt have adequate ventilation for such heavy use (it 
being only intended to be used occasionally). Whilst I can reasonably hold Allianz 
responsible for that, I agree with it that it couldve approved alternative accommodation for 
the inadequate washing facilities the house was left with for a family of four. From the information Allianz has sent me, I can see in November 2017 Ms B asked the loss 
adjuster about alternative accommodation, which Allianz said could be arranged if required. 
But its also said that Ms B changed her request shortly after to claiming £40 a night for the 
duration of the claim (which had run for 610 days). So Allianz says it seems Ms B was more 
interested in making a financial claim rather than utilising the alternative accommodation 
benefit within the policy. It said her claim came to £24,400 which it didnt think was 
reasonable because Ms B had remained in the property throughout the claim only to then 
ask it for an unreasonable amount of compensation towards the end of the claim. 
Ms B has said she only remained at the house as she was repeatedly reassured that the 
reinstatement wouldnt be taking much longer so she thought shed hang on rather than 
move everyone out but given the claim had taken as long as she did she thought she was 
entitled for compensation in lieu of not moving into alternative accommodation. 
I think that the delays in reaching settlement meant Ms B and her family experienced 
significant inconvenience in their daily lives for longer than was necessary. As Ive set out 
above, large parts of her home were out of use for a long period of time. Sleeping and 
washing arrangements for the whole family were far from adequate. And, by its own 
admission, Allianz has said it couldve offered Ms B alternative accommodation given the 
lack of fully adequate washing facilities.
It follows that I think that Ms Bs complaint should be upheld and that Allianz didnt treat her 
fairly by not placing her and her children in alternative accommodation for the period they 
were with compromised washing and sleeping facilities.
But whilst Ms B has put a nightly rate on the compensation she seeks in lieu of alternative 
accommodation, thats not how this service assesses the amount of compensation to award. 
Ill explain why.
Where a consumer stays in their home instead of moving into alternative accommodation 
(for whatever reason) and incurs actual additional costs for doing so (an example of such a 
situation would be a lack of proper cooking facilities meaning a need to eat out more or buy 
microwave only meals or a lack of laundry facilities meaning the need to pay to use a 
launderette) this service can consider it fair and reasonable for an insurer to pay a 
disturbance allowance. Usually the policyholder would need to provide evidence of the 
extra cost they say they incurred. If obtaining such evidence simply isnt possible, we 
consider a fair starting point to be £10 per day per adult and £5 per day per child. 
Theres no contractual provision under the policy terms for such an allowance to be paid. It is 
simply something this service considers in the round, providing there is evidence of such 
cost being incurred, when deciding if an insurers actions have been fair and reasonable. I 
dont know where Ms B derived the figure of £40 per day from but, Im afraid Ive seen no 
evidence of any actual additional costs incurred as a result of her and her children staying in 
the home. So I am not minded to require Allianz to pay a disturbance allowance. 
Allianz couldve offered Ms B alternative accommodation for the lack of adequate washing 
facilities. And, because it didnt, she was caused additional, avoidable, inconvenience and 
upset above and beyond that which shouldve been associated with her claims. 
All insurance claims attract a certain level of inconvenience, thats to be expected. But where 
an insurer, through its words or deeds makes an already stressful situation avoidably worse, 
this service can require it to pay compensation to the policyholder. We arent a court of law 
and we dont fine or punish a business or require the payment of damages to individuals. 
Rather we take all the circumstances of a complaint into account and, if we think that an 
insurer has caused additional trouble and upset then we can require it to pay compensation 
to the policyholder.Ive thought about the avoidable trouble and upset Allianzs decision caused Ms B and I think 
that paying her compensation of £2,000 is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. This 
is in addition to the £250 Allianz has already paid Ms B for delays and poor communication. 
An award of this size, for the level of trouble and upset caused, is also in in line with the level 
of awards this service has made in complaints of a similar nature. I appreciate that Ms B 
thinks that this isnt a fair amount for the duration of the inconvenience she was caused but 
Ive taken all the circumstances of her complaint into account in reaching my decision. 
Lastly, I note Ms Bs recent request that she be provided with evidence of the risk 
assessment and health and safety checks undertaken by Allianz in order to secure her 
familys welfare. Im afraid that Im not able to look at that issue for her here because thats 
not what this complaint is about. Ms B must first raise any concerns of this nature that she 
has with Allianz so it can have the opportunity to investigate them. 
Putting things right
For the additional distress and inconvenience Allianzs failure to offer Ms B alternative 
accommodation caused here I think that it is fair and reasonable that it pay her 
compensation of £2,000.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Allianz Insurance Plc to take the 
steps Ive set out in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman