DRN-4438845
The complaint
Miss P complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined a claim she 
made under her landlord insurance policy.
Reference to RSA includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
As the circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, Ill summarise my findings.
Miss P has had a landlord insurance policy, through an insurance broker Ill call P, for 
a number of years. Prior to the April 2023 renewal, it was underwritten by A. After 
that, it was underwritten by RSA.
Shortly after the renewal, Miss P found her property had failed a gas safety check as 
a result of damage to the boiler flue. She got in touch with RSA about it. RSA began 
looking into the claim, but then said as it had only insured Miss P for a number of 
days when the damage was found, she should get in touch with A about it.
Miss P did so but I understand A hasnt covered the claim. She complained to RSA 
about the way it had handled things. As shed been continuously insured for many 
years, and first became aware of the problem whilst RSA was her insurer, she 
thought it should cover the claim.
RSA said damage of this nature wasnt covered by its policy  and the timing of it 
meant it was likely to have happened before it was the insurer in any case.
Our investigator thought damage of this nature was covered  but it was likely to 
have happened before RSA became the underwriter, so it was entitled to decline the 
claim. But for the way it handled the claim, he said it should pay £100 compensation.
RSA accepted what our investigator said. Miss P didnt. She said RSA hadnt 
established how the damage had been caused and had treated her unfairly during 
the claim process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Miss P has a P branded policy, P is an insurance broker, not an underwriter. 
So P isnt responsible for insurance claims. And it may move Miss P to a different 
underwriter when renewing the policy. If Miss P is unhappy about being moved from 
one underwriter to another and/or the information she received about this from P, she 
can take that up with P directly.
This complaint is against RSA  so I can only consider the way RSA acted. I cant 
consider the actions of P and/or A.
RSAs policy only covers damage which occurs as a result of an event which 
happened during the period of insurance. That is, an event which happened on or 
after 16 April 2023.
In this case, the problem was discovered on 21 April 2023 during a gas safety check. 
The previous check was carried out around a year earlier. In a nutshell, RSA says its 
more likely the damage happened in the 360 days between the earlier safety check 
and the policy moving to RSA, than in the five days after the policy moved to RSA. It 
also says malicious damage by a tenant isnt covered.
Ive seen comments from the plumber who carried out the gas safety check. They 
said a new boiler was needed because the flue of the old one was smashed and 
had a screw drilled straight through it. The plumber said this has definitely been 
done on purpose. I havent seen any other professional opinions about the damage, 
so I have no reason to dispute whats been said.
The policy covers malicious damage by tenants to the buildings. Given what the 
plumber found, Im satisfied the damage is likely to have been malicious and caused 
by tenants  so if that happened on or after 16 April 2023, RSA should cover it.
I understand the current tenants moved in around January 2023 and say they were 
unaware of the problem. So, on balance, it seems unlikely the damage was caused 
on or after 16 April 2023. It was only discovered later because it was in the loft, not 
subject to incoming or outgoing inventory checks, and hadnt interfered with the usual 
working of the boiler.
In these circumstances, Im satisfied it was fair for RSA to decline the claim. Whilst it 
was wrong to say the nature of the damage wasnt covered, I think it was right to say 
the timing of the damage wasnt.
Whilst from Miss Ps perspective shes been insured through the same entity for a 
number of years, from RSAs, it had only been the underwriter for five days when the 
claim was made. Im satisfied RSA was entitled to take that into account when 
considering the claim.
Nonetheless, RSA has accepted it could have handled the claim better, including 
being clear that malicious damage by tenants is covered. Its agreed to pay £100 
compensation for that. Im satisfied thats a reasonable remedy.
Miss P is entitled to take up As decision to decline the claim directly with A if she 
wishes.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay £100 compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman