DRN-1605221
The complaint
 Miss T complains that a car acquired with finance from Close Brothers Limited trading as 
Close Brothers Motor Finance wasnt of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
 In February 2019 Miss T was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Close Brothers.
On the day the car was delivered to her, Miss T noticed issues including:
Radiator fan not activating
Strong smell of coolant
Engine temperature gauge fluctuating
Signs of wear to the clutch pedal
Miss T reported the issues to the supplying dealer and Close Brothers within the first 30 
days and asked to reject the car. She says she was advised by Close Brothers to return the 
car to the supplying dealer and that the finance agreement would be cancelled.
Miss T returned the car to the supplying dealer but later discovered that the agreement 
hadnt been cancelled. She complained to Close Brothers. In response, Close Brothers 
asked Miss T to provide evidence that there was a fault with the car.
Miss T arranged for an independent inspection of the car, which took place in April 2019. 
The inspection concluded that there were point of supply faults.
Close Brothers said the delay in arranging an inspection meant that it should be given the 
opportunity to carry out a repair to the car rather than accept a rejection.
Miss T wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said he was satisfied that there was a point of 
supply fault and that Miss T had exercised her short term right to reject.
Close Brothers didnt respond to the view, so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Because Close Brothers supplied the car under a conditional sale agreement, theres an 
implied term that the car is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory  quality if they are 
of a standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account factors such as the 
age and mileage of the car and the price paid.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 30 days, the 
consumer has a short term right of rejection. After 30 days, but within the first 6 months, 
theres a presumption that any faults which occur were present or developing at the point of 
supply and the business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. After 6 months, the 
burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the fault was present at 
the point of supply.
In this case, theres no dispute that Miss T asked to reject the car with the first 30 days. I can 
see that I response to that request, Close Brothers asked Miss T to provide evidence that 
the car had a fault. I dont think it was unreasonable for Close Brothers to request this 
evidence, , but it might have been better (and avoided any delay) if Close Brothers had 
arranged for the supplying dealer to carry out a diagnostic at this stage, or if it had arranged 
an independent inspection itself.
I can see that Miss T had the car inspected in April 2019. Close Brothers has said that 
because of the delay in arranging the inspection, it should be allowed an opportunity to 
repair the car.
I cant see anything in the CRA 2015 to support what Close Brothers says here. Im satisfied 
that Miss T exercised her short term right to reject. Im also satisfied that the inspection 
report shows that the car had a point of supply fault, and that this is the same fault reported 
early on in the agreement by Miss T.
Miss T has explained that it wasnt possible to have the car inspected any sooner due to the 
availability of the engineer. I think this is a plausible explanation. 
Putting things right
 Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Miss T exercised her short term right to reject 
and that the car had a point of supply fault, so was t of satisfactory quality,
To put things right, Close Brothers should allow Miss T to reject the car. 
My final decision
Close Brothers Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Miss T
Refund any deposit paid by Miss T plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement
Refund all but one of the monthly payments made by Miss T (one payment may be 
retained for fair use)
Reimburse Miss T the cost of the inspection
Remove any negative information relating to the agreement from Miss Ts credit filePay compensation of £100 to Miss T for trouble and upset
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman