DRN-1615986
complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policies taken 
out in 1984 and then in 1992. Mr and Mrs J say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them 
the MPPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mr and Mrs Js case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold. Ill explain the reasons for my decision below.
On both occasions when selling the MPPI to Mr and Mrs J, Nationwide shouldve taken 
reasonable steps to make it clear the policies were optional. It also shouldve got their 
agreement to take it out. Both policies were set up to protect Mr J only. 
Mr and Mrs J say they werent aware the MPPI was added when both mortgages were 
arranged. Nationwide has been able to provide some paperwork from the time the MPPI was 
arranged in 1984. This includes the MPPI application form. However, this form isnt very 
clear and its hard to see the details included in it. From what I can see there does seem to 
be a section about the level of cover required and a section for Mr J to sign to agree to the 
policy. Its unfortunate the for isnt clear, but not surprising given how long ago the sale took 
place. Where I have limited information about a sale, I have to decide what I think is more 
likely to have happened. Based on what we know about how MPPI was sold and 
Nationwides sales practices I think its very unlikely the policy wouldve been set up without 
this paperwork indicating Mr and Mrs J wanted the policy. It seems in 1984 unemployment 
cover only was selected for Mr J and this suggests a discussion wouldve taken place about 
the type of over Mr and Mrs J needed. 
In 1992 Mr and Mrs J were sold a new policy. Nationwide has provided the paperwork from 
this sale. The separate MPPI application form includes specific details about Mr J and the 
level of cover has been selected. This application is entirely separate to the application 
completed for the mortgage and it has been signed by Mr J. Based on what we know about 
how MPPI was sold I wouldve expected the conversations with the Nationwide to reflect the 
details on this form. And if Mr J wasnt sure about the cover I wouldve expected him to 
query it before signing and agreeing to the cover.
So taking everything in to account, Im satisfied its more likely that Mr and Mrs J gave 
their consent for the MPPI to be set up on both occasions and the policies were presented 
as optional. Although I can understand why they may not remember this as it was so long 
ago.
Nationwide didnt provide Mr and Mrs J with advice to take out the MPPI policies. 
This means it shouldve given them clear information about the policies so that they could 
make a proper choice about whether or not to take them out.I dont know what steps Nationwide took to do this on both occasions and its possible some 
things werent explained as clearly as they shouldve been. But I dont think clearer 
information wouldve changed Mr and Mrs Js decision. I think theyd still have bought it and 
Ill explain why.
The MPPI provided cover for Mr J only in 1984 and 1992. And from what I can see it seems 
Mr J was eligible for the MPPI on both occasions as he met the basic requirements of the 
policies.
Looking at Mr Js circumstances at the time of both sales he wouldnt have been affected 
by any of the things the policy didnt cover  like known health issues or unusual 
employment arrangements. So there was nothing to stop him claiming the full benefit of the 
policies if hed needed to.
Mr and Mrs J say Mr J wouldn't have received any employee benefits  if he lost his job when 
they took out the MPPI in 1984. This means the MPPI wouldve been useful as it wouldve 
covered the mortgage repayments for up to 24 months if Mr J was out of work. Theyve also 
said Mr J wouldve received statutory sick pay if he was off work sick. The MPPI arranged in 
1992 wouldve been of use as it wouldve paid out for up to 18 months if Mr J was off work 
due to accident or sickness. And it would have provided cover if he lost his job. So it seems 
Mr and Mrs J wouldve benefited from the cover provided by the MPPI policies. 
Mr and Mrs Js mortgage was a significant and long-term financial commitment, which 
was secured on their home. So the effects of not keeping up with the repayments couldve 
been serious for them. And I think having the security that the repayments wouldve been 
made if Mr J was unable to work or unwell wouldve been important to them.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs J. And as both the policys 
premiums were paid monthly, they could have amended or cancelled them if they no 
longer met their needs.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs J have said, including the comments their 
representative has made about the deferral periods for both policies and the fact premiums 
wouldve had to be paid during this time. However, I still think the benefits of the cover were 
significant and deferral periods are common in policies of this nature to ensure there is a 
genuine need for the benefit to be paid. And its likely details of the deferral period wouldve 
been available in the policy information Mr and Mrs J wouldve been given at the time. So 
based on everything Ive seen I dont think Nationwide did anything wrong when selling Mr 
and Mrs J these policies.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Chandni Green
Ombudsman