DRN-3431797
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the total loss settlement West Bay Insurance Plc offered for his 
written off car when he made a claim under his car insurance policy. Mr H is also unhappy 
about the way his claim was handled. 
What happened
Mr Hs car was damaged by another driver and he made a claim to his insurer, West Bay. 
West Bay said it would settle the claim as a total loss. Mr H didnt accept the total loss 
settlement West Bay offered. He was unhappy that uninsured losses of car hire and keeping 
his cherished number plate werent covered by West Bay. 
West Bay said its settlement offer of £2,965 for Mr Hs car was fair. It said it wasnt 
responsible for seeking payment for Mr Hs uninsured losses from the third party. West Bay 
said it could have issued payment to Mr H sooner than it did. So it paid Mr H £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience its delay caused. 
Mr H asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator checked the main motor trade 
guides in line with our long standing approach to valuation complaints. In line with the policy, 
she found that West Bay had offered Mr H a fair settlement which he hadnt accepted. The 
Investigator thought the compensation it had paid for its delay was reasonable  and she 
didnt find anything to show West Bay was responsible for dealing with any uninsured losses 
Mr H had incurred as a result of the claim. 
The Investigator thought West Bays compensation award was fair. She found that Mr H 
hadnt accepted an interim settlement as he wanted to wait for an outcome from this service. 
Mr H didnt agree. He says the settlement sum offered doesnt provide the cover as set out 
under his policy to meet the cost to buy a replacement car. Hes unhappy that the 
Investigator appeared to dismiss a valuation he provided from one of the motor trade guides 
for £3,772.
Mr H says he spoke to a dealer and looked at cars for sale online. He says the dealer gave a 
valuation of £3,395 from a trade guide before adding any extras from Mr Hs written off car. 
Mr H feels we have focused too heavily on the high mileage of his car when a significant 
amount of work had been done to the car and it had a low number of previous owners. 
Mr H says he contacted garages to ask how much of a discount they would give for cars he 
says are similar to his priced at around £4,000. He says the garages quoted discounts of 
£150 and £195. 
Mr H says West Bay should either provide a fairer settlement sum of over £4,000 or look to 
the sources that provide the valuations to provide a replacement car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.We dont decide a valuation. But we can look at whether an insurer reached its valuation 
reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Mr Hs policy with West Bay says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the market 
value of his car at the time of loss. It defines the term market value as;
The cost of replacing the car with another of the same make, specification, model, age, 
mileage and condition as the car immediately before the loss or damage happened.
We take into account the main motor trades when considering whether an insurer has 
reached it valuation fairly. The guides provide a retail transacted guide which is the average 
of what Mr H  or anyone  might pay for a similar car from a retail garage. They are based 
on research of likely selling prices and are based on the same make, model, condition, age 
and mileage as Mr Hs car immediately before it was written off. 
We find advertised prices for cars are less reliable as they can vary widely, as they are the 
price the buyer decides it is worth. Often a selling price has a margin built in to negotiate the 
price downward.
While it isnt the only factor to take into account, the mileage of Mr Hs car had an impact on 
the valuations obtained from the main motor trade guides. When compared with the average 
mileage and actual mileage of Mr Hs car, the difference from one of the main guides was 
just over £1,000. There is an expectation for a customer to keep their car in roadworthy 
condition  and the retail transacted guides provide valuations based on good, average and 
poor condition. The guides we checked assumed Mr Hs car was in good condition. The 
number of previous owners is one of many factors that might attract a buyer to a vehicle. 
We looked at three of the main guides and compared them with the guide provided by Mr H. 
The guides we checked provided valuations ranging from £2,653 to £2,965. The guide 
provided by Mr H gave a valuation of £3,772. 
Where one of the guides is out of kilter with the rest, we disregard this valuation. This is the 
case irrespective of whether that valuation is lower or higher. I understand Mr H doesnt 
agree  but following our approach  I dont think it unreasonable to disregard the valuation 
of £3,772 as it sits out of place with three guides that provided a similar valuation. 
It isnt for the insurer to purchase a replacement car for a customer. I think West Bay has 
fulfilled its obligations under the policy in the total loss settlement it offered Mr H. I think the 
settlement sum West Bay gave of £2,965  being the highest of the applicable motor trade 
guides  was reached in a reasonable way. 
I understand Mr H is very disappointed about the circumstances of the incident and that not 
all of his losses are covered under the policy. But I cant hold West Bay responsible for this. 
As the Investigator explained, Mr H may be able to seek recovery of his uninsured losses 
directly from the third party insurer  or he may have separate cover which can assist him 
with this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman