DRN-3492457
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy because Coutts & Company (Coutts) did not reimburse the 
money they transferred to a fraudster.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K are represented in this case by a family member, Mr K. 
In March 2021 Mr and Mrs K received a call from someone who said he was calling from a 
police station. They were told that they suspected an employee of Coutts was stealing 
money from Mr and Mrs Ks joint account. The case was so serious it was being dealt with 
by Scotland Yard and they were put through to an investigator there. Mr and Mrs K were told 
that to help catch those involved they needed to buy gold which would be collected from 
them. The gold would then be used in a sting operation to bring the criminal to justice. Mr 
and Mrs K were told theyd receive full reimbursement plus a reward for helping the police. 
Mrs and Mrs K received numerous calls reassuring them that the investigation was being 
treated as a priority. The caller also told them that as the matter was sensitive, they shouldnt 
discuss it with anyone. 
Mr K called Coutts to make the payments for the gold from his joint account with Mrs K. He 
paid £41,200 on 31 March 2021 and £83,300 on 1 April 2021. The day after each order of 
gold was delivered to Mr and Mrs Ks home a courier came and collected it. Mr and Mrs K 
realised theyd been the victims of a scam on 12 April when they didnt receive a promised 
call from the police. At this stage they reported the matter to the police and the following day 
called Coutts.  
Coutts hasnt reimbursed the amount Mr and Mrs K lost. It says that the payments werent 
scam payments as Mr K paid a genuine company for gold that he received. His point of loss 
was later, when Mr and Mrs K handed the gold over to fraudsters. For this reason, Coutts 
hadnt tried to recover the lost funds. Coutts also said that at the time of the first payment it 
provided a scam warning and that its not its responsibility to question the legitimacy of a 
payment a customer has authorised. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that Coutts pay Mr and Mrs K 
50% of their loss plus interest. She said that Coutts had a responsibility to look out for 
unusual and out of character payments and flagged both payments. The payments were 
unusual as they were for higher than normal amounts and Coutts should have taken more 
care given Mr Ks age. The investigator went on to say that the questions asked in the calls 
when the payments were made didnt go far enough. If Coutts had asked the kind of 
questions it should have the scam would have unravelled or Coutts would have had 
sufficient concerns not to make the payments during the calls. 
But Mr K should also bear some responsibility for his loss as there were various red flags 
including the fact there was no explanation for how buying gold would help catch the 
fraudster(s). Mr K also received a scam call months before and at this stage he called Coutts 
and the loss was prevented.
Coutts agreed with the investigators findings, but Mr and Mrs K didnt. Through their 
representatives they said:
- Coutts didnt adhere to the Banking Protocol which they say applied to payments made 
by phone at the time. Coutts should have refused to make the payments or told Mr K to 
go into branch and invoked the Protocol and called the police.
- Having listened to Mr Ks calls with Coutts it was clear he was nervous and hesitant, and 
Coutts should have picked up on this and prevented the scam from taking place.
- Everything about the payments was out of character for Mr K, who was in his mid- 
eighties at the time. 
- Mr K was a kindly elderly gentleman who was trusting and risk adverse. He simply 
believed he was doing the right thing in helping the police. And his inability to articulate 
how the police operation would work was based on his trust in authority and the fact he 
was told it was a covert operation. Mr K wouldnt call Coutts, as he was told it was 
culpable.
- Mr K had banked with Coutts for many years and his profile should have been well 
known to it. 
- Mr K referred me to a case study on our website. He says the facts are similar, but the 
customer was awarded a full refund. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Coutts should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to consider whether Coutts acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr K when he authorised the payments from his joint account or whether it could and 
should have done more before processing them. Did Coutts act fairly and reasonably in Mr and Mrs Ks case?
I note Coutts point about the point of loss in this case. But the gold was bought as part of a 
sophisticated scam. Coutts also has a responsibility to be on the lookout for unusual and out 
of character transactions. So Ive reviewed Mr and Mrs Ks statements for the 12 month 
period before the scam transactions. Having done so, Im satisfied the payments were 
unusual and out of character and so Coutts should have asked Mr and Mrs K proportionate 
questions about them to satisfy itself they werent at risk of financial harm. The first payment 
was to a new payee and was for a significantly greater sum than any previous transactions. 
Coutts should also have been aware that fraudsters often target elderly people and so at 85 
years old, Mr K was at greater risk of being scammed. 
Ive gone on to consider what was discussed when Mr K asked Coutts to make the first 
payment on 31 March 2021. Having done so, Im not satisfied Coutts asked the 
proportionate questions Id expect. 
Mr K explained in the call that he was buying gold bullion bars. The agent went on to say, 
I do have to check that you havent been instructed to make this payment by anyone 
claiming to be the bank, the police
Mr K said it was a personal investment. No further questions were asked. 
Im aware that Mr K wasnt truthful in his response to the above comment and that he was 
told by the scammer not to disclose the investigation to anyone. Its well known that 
scammers will convince consumers to have a cover story with various degrees of detail and 
good industry practice encourages banks to be on the look-out for this and to ask questions. 
Mr K wasnt even asked a question but was provided with a statement. 
I dont think the conversation with Mr K went far enough. He wasnt asked any questions 
about the investment in gold such as why he had decided to do it, what made him invest 
such large sums in gold, what research he had done and what he planned to do with the 
gold once bought. Mr K also wasnt provided with any scam warnings or advised of the 
common types of scam that could be involved or of how to protect himself.
Ive also thought about what I think would most likely have happened had Coutts asked the 
kind of questions I think it should have. On balance, Im persuaded that had Coutts asked 
more detailed questions about the payments the scam would have been uncovered or 
Coutts should have declined to make the payment during the call and asked Mr K to attend a 
branch. I dont consider Mr K would have been able to provide plausible answers that would 
have satisfied Coutts that Mr and Mrs K werent at risk of financial harm. Overall, Im 
satisfied that Coutts are at least partly responsible for Mr and Mrs Ks loss. 
It follows that if the first payment was prevented the second payment wouldnt have been 
made. For the sake of completeness though, I consider that Coutts should have had 
concerns about a second payment of such a large sum in a matter of days. But in the call 
when the payment was made Coutts didnt ask any questions about the reason for it or 
provide any scam warnings. 
Mr and Mrs K have referred to the Banking Protocol and said it should have been invoked. 
The Banking Protocol currently only applies to payments made in branch. Whilst there are 
plans to extend it to other types of payment, this wasnt the case when Mr and Mrs K fell 
victim to this scam. Mr and Mrs K have also referred to the fact Mr K sounded nervous and 
hesitant in phone calls with Coutts and it should have picked up on this. I understand that Mr 
and Mrs Ks family know them well so will pick up on changes in demeanour, but I dont think 
its reasonable to expect Coutts staff who answer customer calls to be able to do so. Ive 
also listened to the calls and dont consider Mr K sounded nervous. 
Should Mr and Mrs K bear some responsibility for their loss?Finally, Ive considered whether Mr and Mrs K should also bear some responsibility for their 
loss. I appreciate that Mr K respects authority and wouldnt want to question the police. Im 
also persuaded he thought he was doing the right thing. But I dont believe Mr K was given 
or sought an explanation as to how buying gold would help a police investigation into staff at 
Coutts. I consider a reasonable person would question this and take additional steps to 
check the veracity of what the scammer said before spending most of their savings on gold 
that was handed to an unknown third party. Im also concerned by the fact there was no 
clear plan for how Mr and Mrs K would get their money back and note that Mr and Mrs K 
werent provided with any documentation in respect of this or any other aspect of the scam. 
A few months before Mr K fell victim to this scam, he received some scam calls. He 
contacted Coutts to check whether what he was told by the scammer was correct and was 
told he did the right thing to hang up. So I think Mr K was aware that fraudsters lie to victims 
to persuade them to give them money and should have taken more care. 
Overall, Im persuaded Mr and Mrs K should bear some responsibility for their loss too and 
so Mr and Mrs K should receive 50% of what they lost in this scam. 
In response to the investigators view Mr and Mrs K referred me to a case study on our 
website and said that the circumstances were very similar to theirs, but the customer was 
awarded a full refund. My role is to decide Mr and Mrs Ks complaint based on the individual 
circumstances of it. Im satisfied that the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ks complaint differ 
from those set out in the case study and that a 50% refund is fair and reasonable. 
Recovery
I dont consider there was anything Coutts could have done to recover Mr and Mrs Ks funds. 
The payments were made to a genuine provider of gold and in return Mr and Mrs K received 
the gold they paid for. 
Interest
I can see that the funds Mr and Mrs K lost when they bought the gold were transferred into 
the account to fund the transactions. So interest should be paid at the rate applicable to the 
account the funds were in before the transfer and should be paid from the dates of each 
payment to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Coutts & Company should:
- Refund 50% of Mr and Mrs Ks losses (£62,250);
- Pay interest on the above sum at account interest rate as set out above from the 
dates of payment to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K, Mr K and 
Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman