DRN-4002681
The complaint
Mrs E and Mr E complain about American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) giving 
misinformation which caused financial detriment, distress and inconvenience.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 4 February 2023. This is what I said: 
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, there will be a different outcome to what our investigator
proposed.
Before I issue my final decision, I wanted to give everyone a chance to reply.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 4 March 2023. But unless the
information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.
The complaint
Mrs E and Mr E complain about American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) giving
misinformation which caused financial detriment, distress and inconvenience.
What happened
Mrs E and Mr E were planning to make an important payment for approximately £60000 and
they wanted to pay on their Amex card so they could get reward points.
So, on 25 July 2022, Mr E contacted Amex to organise this. Mr E first asked if he could
credit his account with funds to up the balance of the account to £60000 but was told that
wouldnt be possible and he would need to increase his credit limit. He subsequently
increased his credit limit from £23900 to £33300 and says when he asked a representative if
he could process two payments in succession for approximately £30000, he was told he
could.
However, Mr E had been misinformed and when he went to make the important payment in
two transactions three days later, on 28 July 2022, the first went through but the second
declined. This caused Mrs E and Mr E embarrassment and difficulty as they had to scramble
around to make other payment arrangements.
Mr E complained and said that Amex apologised and agreed with his version of events.
However, he was dissatisfied with their gesture of goodwill which was 3000 reward points.
This is because reward points have a value, and he had been expecting to earn 45000
reward points on a £30000. Also, Mr E explains that the main reason he and his wife pay a
sizeable Amex card fee is the ability to earn reward points. So, he feels the misinformation
has caused a financial detriment and he should receive a greater amount of reward points.
Amex felt their goodwill gesture was fair and reasonable and they didnt uphold Mrs E and
Mr Es complaint.
Mrs E and Mr E complained to our service as they were dissatisfied with the level of
compensation. However, our investigator thought Amexs goodwill gesture was a fair way to
apologise for the distress caused.
As Mrs E and Mr E remain dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different view to the investigator, and I will explain how I
have come to my decision.
Although its not in dispute that Amex made a mistake here, I first listened to the available
calls to fully understand the details of the misinformation. I found it necessary to request the
call in which Mr E was misinformed. However, Amex said this wasnt available and when I
enquired about how theyd been able to confirm the misinformation given, they explained a
complaint handler had listened to the call and made a short note which stated:
Security taken and then credit limit increase request made. Rep confirmed that £33300 has
been approved. Card member asked if the x (payee) split the bill into two payments would it
go through and the rep said yes.
I then considered Mr Es points that had he not been misinformed he couldve uploaded the
card or got the payee to accept two payments on different days and I couldnt see that either
of these options wouldve been possible.
On a taped call on 25 July 2022, Mr E was advised that he couldnt put extra money on his
card in order to spend more than the card limit and thus gain extra reward points. Instead, he
would need to increase the limit.
Regarding making two payments for £30000, I could only see that this was possible if the
limit was increased to £60000. This is because Amex provided guidance on interim
payments for release which showed that they wouldnt be able to guarantee expenditure
above the given limit, and when I checked if it was possible to process consecutive
transactions for the maximum limit, Amexs response was the following:
In theory, it seems logical if you pay x we can then provide that much again as the money is
pending. However, with a credit card, the credit limit applied is the maximum a cardmember
can spend in any given month.
I found this to be reasonable and as it wasnt possible for Mrs E and Mr E to spend £60000
without a credit limit increase, I further checked the file. However, the tape in which Mrs E
and Mr E requested an increase to their credit limit also wasnt available. But, from listening
to the calls which were available and looking at the £9400 increase given I think it likely they
tried to increase their limit by the highest amount possible. Also, the increase needed to get
a new limit of £60000 wouldve required an increase of nearly 150% and I think it unlikely
that this wouldve been possible.
So, considering the above, even if the misinformation hadnt occurred, I cant see that Mrs E
and Mr E have been subject to a financial detriment here, as regardless of the error they
wouldnt have been able to spend £60000 on their card and receive the respective reward
points.
I do though fully understand Mrs E and Mr Es frustration, as its clear from their submissions
that the mistake raised their expectations and also caused them embarrassment, distressand inconvenience.
So, I then looked at Amexs goodwill gesture and the value of the 3000 reward points is
approximately £60. When I consider the importance of the payment and the level of distress
and embarrassment Mrs E and Mr E experienced when having to urgently arrange a
different payment, I think the amount of compensation is low. And I think it should be
increased to an offer of £150.
As their expectations were raised, I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs E
and Mr E. However, when considering all the circumstances here I think this is a fair and
reasonable amount of compensation.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision to uphold this complaint and I
require:
 American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) to pay Mrs E and Mr E £150
compensation for the inconvenience and distress caused.
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 4 March 2023.
Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set out
above.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments or evidence before the 
deadline.
Amex agreed to increase the amount of compensation to £150. 
However, Mr E expressed disappointment at the amount of compensation which he feels is 
insufficient. His additional comments include that he couldnt explore other options as he 
was misinformed that he could make 2 successive payments. Also, the anticipated 45,000 
avios equates to £735.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs E and Mr E feel the amount of compensation is inadequate and they missed the 
opportunity to get the equivalent of £735 reward points, I further reviewed the file together 
with my above provisional decision and our publicly available guidance on compensation.
I appreciate Mr Es point that the misinformation meant he couldnt explore other options. 
However, regarding Amex reward points, for the reasons detailed in my provisional decision 
I still think that they spent the maximum amount possible on their Amex card and it wouldnt 
have been possible to earn any more.
I do though fully understand the loss of expectation here, so Im pleased to see that Amex 
agree to pay an additional amount of compensation for both the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
However, when further considering the impact here, together with the distress, 
inconvenience and loss of expectation, I still think that the amount of £150 to be fair and 
reasonable compensation in the circumstances.So, Im still upholding this complaint, but Im not persuaded to increase the compensation 
from £150.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint and I require:
American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) to pay Mrs E and Mr E £150 
compensation for the inconvenience and distress caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman