DRN-3576830
The complaint
Mr T complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (Bank of Ireland), trading as Post Office 
Money, shouldnt have lent to him because it ought reasonably to have realised that he 
would struggle to make his repayments.   
What happened
Bank of Ireland approved a couple of loans for Mr T as follows:
Loan Amount Total to Pay Term Repayments
1 6,000 7,235.40 60 120.59
2 7,500 9,850.20 60 164.17
Mr T said that Bank of Ireland were wrong to provide credit as it wasnt affordable for him.
Bank of Ireland disagreed. They said that when they approved the loan they used a 
combination of credit reference agency, statistical modelling, and self-reported information to 
assess the application. They said that for the first loan their assessment suggested Mr T 
would have a disposable income of £238 after the new loan payment was taken into account 
and for the second loan his disposable income would be about £72 per month. They 
therefore thought there was sufficient disposable income for Mr T to sustainably afford the 
repayments.
Our investigator disagreed with Bank of Ireland. They said that the business should have 
completed additional checks and if they had they would have discovered Mr T was 
experiencing financial difficulties and that it would have been irresponsible to increase his 
indebtedness further. The investigator therefore suggested Bank of Ireland take some action 
to put things right for Mr T.
Bank of Ireland didnt agree with the investigator. They thought there was no need for 
additional checks as the ones they had completed were reasonable and proportionate and 
demonstrated that the agreements were affordable for the consumer. They therefore asked 
for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable here. 
I dont think Bank of Ireland completed reasonable and proportionate checks before 
approving the loans.
Bank of Ireland hasnt provided a copy of the credit check it completed. Ive therefore relied 
on a copy of the credit file supplied by Mr T. I think this gives a good indication of what Bank 
of Ireland would likely have seen. It supports the information Bank of Ireland have sent me 
that Mr T had nearly £18,000 of unsecured debt and that he was paying over £500 per 
month towards those unsecured credit commitments. Mr T had taken out a loan for £13,500 
only seven months before his application to Bank of Ireland. Hed also taken out another 
significant loan the month before hed made his application, but I think that loan would not 
have been likely to be visible to Bank of Ireland at the time of Mr Ts first application. The 
disposable income calculation Bank of Ireland completed assumed Mr T was paying £425 
towards his mortgage each month but Mr T had told them his portion of the payment was 
£570 and I think it was fair, and safer, to therefore use the higher figure. That left a 
disposable income of only £92 and I think given the level of unsecured debt, the recent loan 
taken out in September 2017 for £13,500, and the low disposable income, it would have 
been reasonable for the business to have asked for more information before approving the 
loan. 
I cant be sure what Bank of Ireland would have been told if theyd asked for more 
information about Mr Ts expenditure. They didnt have to ask for bank statements but in the 
absence of other information I think reviewing bank statements from around the time of the 
lending decision is the best way to gauge what that information would have been. 
Mr Ts bank statements show that he was in persistent overdraft and that the overdraft was 
growing month on month. He was also paying a substantial amount towards gambling 
transactions each month. I think that, in tandem with the relatively low level of calculated 
disposable income, would suggest the first loan wasnt affordable and Bank of Ireland were 
irresponsible to provide that credit and increase Mr Ts indebtedness.
I dont think Mr Ts financial position had improved by the time of the second loan 
application. Payments towards his unsecured debt had increased and he remained in 
persistent overdraft. I dont therefore think the decision to approve the second loan was 
responsible either as I think the evidence suggested Mr T was unlikely to be able to 
sustainably afford repayments.
Putting things right
As I dont think Bank of Ireland should have approved the loans I dont think its fair for it to 
charge any interest or charges. However, Mr T has had the benefit of the capital he lent so I 
think he should pay that back. Therefore, Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc should:
1. Refund all the interest and charges Mr T has paid to date.
2. If the borrowing is still in place, reduce the outstanding capital balances by the amounts 
calculated at Step 1.
3. If, after Step 2, there remain outstanding capital balances on either account, try to agree 
an affordable repayment plan with Mr T. But if Step 2 leads to a positive balance, the amount 
in question should be given back to Mr T and 8% simple interest* should be added to the 
surplus.
4. Once the capital has been repaid on either loan, remove any adverse information 
recorded on Mr Ts credit file about that loan.If Bank of Ireland have sold the outstanding debts they should buy them back if they are able 
to do so and then take the steps highlighted above. If they are not able to buy the debts back 
then they should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined above.
*HM Revenue & Customs may require the business to take off tax from this interest. If it 
does, the business must give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off 
if they ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to put things right in the manner 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman