DRN-3188240
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc hasnt reimbursed her for payments she says 
she didnt make or allow anyone else to make.
What happened
Mrs S is being represented by her son, but for clarity Ill refer to Mrs S in relation to 
representations made on her behalf. 
On 18 November 2020, £3,000 was transferred from Mrs S savings account to her current 
account. Mrs S is disputing two payments made from her current account using these funds. 
One for £2,000 on 18 November and one for £1,000 on 19 November. Each payment was 
made to a new payee.
Mrs S says she didnt make any of these payments and she doesnt recognise the names of 
the payees. She also says she didnt share any secure information or download any 
software to provide access to her mobile phone. Mrs S has however described having 
problems with her mobile phone on these days and says she thinks it was hacked. Mrs S 
has provided evidence that her son contacted her mobile phone provider about this at the 
time. She also confirmed that her debit card wasnt lost or stolen and that it, along with her 
mobile phone, was with her in her home over both days.
Barclays says the payments were made through Mrs S mobile banking application (BMB) on 
her genuine device, and that it was accessed using her secure passcode. It also says that to 
set up each new payee, the user correctly entered the CVV and expiry date information from 
Mrs S debit card. Barclays contacted the receiving banks requesting the return of the funds, 
but they were no longer available. Barclays didnt think there was a plausible explanation as 
to how these payments would have been made without Mrs S involvement and so it didnt 
agree to reimburse her. 
When Mrs S brought her complaint to our service, the investigator didnt uphold her 
complaint. They didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong by not taking steps to 
prevent the payments and concluded Barclays had fairly declined her claim in the 
circumstances.
Mrs S didnt agree, she highlighted a few points including some information previously 
provided. She said shed gone to great lengths to resolve the matter, including: providing 
evidence of unusual activity on her mobile phone, reporting the matter to the police, offering 
to surrender her mobile phone to be examined, and attending branch multiple times during 
the pandemic. Mrs S said her passcode was her date of birth and that she thought her card 
information could be accessed within the BMB app. Mrs S doesnt speak English or use the 
BMB app  her son helps with these matters and wasnt aware of these payments until he 
re-downloaded the app at a later date at which point the payments were reported as 
fraudulent. She questioned why these payments werent flagged to her by Barclays.
The investigator clarified that at the time of the transactions it wasnt possible to access card 
information within the BMB app and that this feature was added in April 2021.
As Mrs S didnt accept the investigators findings, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to tell Barclays to do anything further to resolve the matter 
and Ive explained why below.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision. And 
I want to assure Mrs S that if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not because I 
havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to us. But, 
Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to reaching a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and broadly speaking Mrs 
S is responsible for any payments that she has authorised (either by making them herself or 
allowing someone else to) and she isnt responsible for unauthorised payments. So, the key 
question here is whether Barclays has acted fairly in concluding that Mrs S did authorise the 
disputed payments. 
For a payment to be authorised, Barclays must show that it was authenticated correctly and 
why it thinks Mrs S consented to it. Here Barclays has provided audit information to show the 
payments were made through Mrs S mobile banking. To make the payments Mrs S secure 
information was used to access her BMB app. So, I think the payments were authenticated 
correctly.
The key issue here is whether Barclays has fairly concluded that Mrs S consented to the 
payments or to someone else making these payments on her behalf. I think it has for the 
following reasons:
Mrs S device (her mobile phone) which had been used for genuine payments 
previously and was in her possession at the time, was used to make these payments.
I appreciate Mrs S has described issues with her mobile phone at the time and 
evidence that this was raised with her provider. But I dont think this is enough to say 
Barclays hasnt dealt with Mrs S claim fairly. I havent seen any evidence confirming 
Mrs S phone was hacked  for example evidence of malware on Mrs S device. 
Whilst Mrs S has offered to surrender her phone, our investigator has let Mrs S know 
that it isnt the role of our service to assess this ourselves. It would be for her to 
provide any expert evidence that she wanted considered. I dont think the 
screenshots provided of google activity shows this.
Theres no explanation for how a third party would know Mrs S passcode. Whilst its 
possible this could be guessed if it was Mrs S date of birth, I find it unlikely that this 
is what happened in light of the other evidence.Even if this was the case, theres no explanation for how a third party would have 
known the CVV and expiry date of Mrs S debit card. Barclays has confirmed this 
information wasnt available within the BMB app at the time of the disputed 
payments.
Ive thought about whether there is any other reason why it would be fair for Barclays to 
reimburse Mrs S and I dont think there is:
In terms of preventing or flagging these payments to Mrs S  Ive reviewed Mrs S 
account statements and the disputed payments arent significantly different from Mrs 
S usual account activity.  The amount and type of payment is similar to previous 
spending. While these were payments to new payees, this is not enough in and of 
itself to make a payment suspicious. So, I dont think Barclays has done anything 
wrong here.
Once Barclays was made aware that Mrs S disputed the transactions it attempted to 
recover her funds for her. Unfortunately, both receiving banks confirmed the funds 
were no longer available. So, I think Barclays has acted reasonably in attempting to 
help Mrs S recover her funds.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman