DRN-2900297
The complaint
 Mr I complains that a car he acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement with MotoNovo 
Finance (MotoNovo), a division of FirstRand Bank Limited, wasnt fit for purpose. He would 
like the car repaired..
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I broadly agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the 
following reasons :-
,
Mr I has evidenced a repair to rectify a grinding noise with the car and a diagnostic 
report to show the problem, whilst improved, persists. Mr I had an automatic right to 
reject the car within thirty days but by arranging a repair himself, I think he lost that 
right.
The dealership and warranty company both made it clear to Mr I that he needed to 
get a diagnostic report but not to go ahead with any repairs until authorised.  Mr I 
hasnt explained why he went ahead with the repairs. I dont think he should have 
done so but he did use a known high street company which he could reasonably 
have expected to find and address the problem.
I dont accept MotoNovos comments that as the problem arose within the first thirty 
days it was Mr Is responsibility to prove there was a problem. When problems arise 
within the first six months the onus is on the business to show if there was a fault 
present or developing at the point of sale or not. I think MotoNovo should have taken 
responsibility for the issue not left it to Mr I
I accept MotoNovos comments that the issue might have been caused by driver 
style .But as it didnt  arrange an independent inspection, despite initially agreeing to 
do so,  I have no evidence to support this . So I think its fair to assume that, so early 
in the agreement, the problem was present when he go the car.
As the first repair hasnt resolved the issue, I think its fair that MotoNovo arranges for 
a further repair to address the grinding noise issue.. I think it should also cover on 
proof of payment, the diagnostic costs Mr I incurred and the cost of the first repair
I appreciate Mr Is preference is to change the car. I dont feel the problem here is 
one that would justify that. And its not a solution we usually recommend as it can be 
hard to exactly replace a car on a like for like basis.
I also dont feel its fair to award any compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience. Although I feel that MotoNovo should have taken responsibility for 
finding out what the problem was if Mr I hadnt arranged an unauthorised repair the 
problem might have been rectified at the first attempt by an authorized repairer 
reducing the time and inconvenience for Mr I.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement MotoNovo 
Finance, a division of FirstRand Bank Limited  should :-
Repair the car to address the grinding noise at no cost to Mr I
Refund the cost of diagnostic reports, and the initial repair cost ,on proof of payment
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman