DRN-3270689
The complaint
Mr G complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a personal pension plan.
Vision Independent Financial Planning Limited is responsible for answering this complaint 
and so to keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to Vision.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Gs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Gs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr G was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to Vision 
which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his 
circumstances and objectives at the time were broadly as follows:
Mr G was 43 years old and in good health. Although describing himself as single, he 
had a partner with whom he had two dependent children. Mr G and his partner 
planned to marry at some point in the future.
Mr G owned a home valued at approximately £120,000, which had an outstanding 
mortgage of around £70,000. The mortgage had 14 years left to run. 
Mr Gs income was £39,485 per year and he said he had a monthly disposable 
income of around £400 (net) after expenses. Mr G had savings of £13,000 
comprising of mainly cash accounts, and some shares.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Gs BSPS was approximately 
£377,696 and the normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. Vision said Mr G wanted to 
retire early if possible, at around the age of 57.
Vision commissioned a transfer analysis and set out its advice in a suitability letter on 22 
November 2017. It advised him to transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a 
personal pension plan. Vision said this would allow Mr G to achieve his objectives.
Mr G accepted this advice and so transferred to a personal pension. In 2021 Mr G 
complained to Vision about its advice, saying he shouldnt have been advised to transfer out 
of the BSPS. In response, Vision said it hadnt done anything wrong and was acting on the 
financial objectives Mr G had at the time. 
Mr G referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and said it should be upheld. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered with great care, the final response from Vision. But whilst Ive noted all the 
points made, Ive rightly focussed on what I think to be the relevant aspects and points in this 
case. 
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Vision's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, Vision should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Gs best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Gs best interests. 
I dont think it was, so Im upholding his complaint.
Financial viability Vision referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to critical yield rates. The critical 
yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the 
transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits 
as the DB scheme. It is therefore part of a range of different things which help show how 
likely it is that a personal pension could achieve the necessary investment growth for a 
transfer-out to become financially viable. As well as considering the critical yield, Ive looked 
at other financial projections too. 
Vision initially focused on Mr Gs apparent desire to retire at the age of 57 and so said the 
critical yield required to match the benefits of the proposed BSPS2 at this age was 6.96% if 
he took a full pension and 5.84% if he took tax-free cash and a reduced pension. And based 
on his desire to also take a tax-free cash element upon retiring the adviser said, I am happy 
to support the transfer based on your objectives and also your balanced attitude to risk. 
However, Vision caveated its advice by saying Mr G didnt necessarily wish to mirror his 
existing benefits in the DB scheme and that it had also produced cash flow modelling which 
showed how Mr G would be able to meet his income requirements in retirement. 
So, I first considered whether I thought the critical yield rates were as achievable as Vision 
thought, as this was a part of the basis for recommending the transfer-out to a personal 
pension.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was only 4.1% per year for 13 years to retirement (to age 57  which is what Vision itself 
was basing its recommendation on). This 4.1% figure is well below the critical yields outlined 
by Vision. The discount rate for the age of 65 was 4.5%, still well below the critical yields 
above. And so, I dont think Visions advice to Mr G suggesting the critical yields would be 
achievable was right, based on this. Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower 
projection rate was 2%. 
Vision said Mr Gs attitude to risk (ATR) was balanced, so again, I dont see any basis for 
Vision claiming that the critical yields that it itself was putting forward would be achievable. 
The regulators middle projection rate was still below the critical yields. So, in my view, both 
the discount rate and the regulators projections were implying here that Mr G was going to 
receive lower pension benefits as a result of following Visions transfer advice.
Nevertheless, I went on to consider the critical yield rates for retiring later, at the schemes 
NRA, even though Visions advice didnt focus on this. The critical yields here were lower, at 
4.57% (without a tax-free lump sum) and 3.84% (with a tax-free lump sum and reduced 
pension). 
However, I think its also important to note that the charges and fees associated with the 
personal pension plan Vision was recommending would have eroded the potential growth 
rates further; our investigator set out in their view what these costs were likely to be. And 
because Mr G was still relatively young from a retirement perspective, I dont think it could really have been said at the time what hed have done at retirement, the age at which he 
would retire (if early) and whether hed take a lump sum. Taking all these other 
considerations into account, the discount rate and regulators middle rate, I think this still 
suggests that exceeding the critical yields, even for the age of 65, was highly uncertain. 
So, to be clear, in my view there was no case made out for the funds in a personal pension 
growing to an extent that made transferring out from a DB scheme worthwhile. And there 
would be little point in transferring out of a DB pension for these reasons to achieve, at best, 
growth of a similar nature to the DB scheme. Set against the added stance of the regulator, 
that such transfers are most likely not suitable, I dont think that the advice about potential 
growth was in Mr Gs best interests. 
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, Vision also made mention of the PPF. It said the critical 
yields to match the benefits available ranged from 3.53% to 5.04%. But these were against 
the reduced benefits found in that scheme and Vision said Mr G didnt want to go into the 
PPF; its recommendation also didnt focus on this area.
As a further comparison, I can see that Visions transfer analysis also showed that in order to 
purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the existing scheme at retirement 
at age 65, the funds required would be around £713,378  far in excess of Mr Gs current 
CETV. Even in order to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the 
estimated benefits of the existing scheme, assuming no spouses pension, no increases in 
payment and no guarantee at retirement, the estimated fund required was £462,227, still 
much more than Mr Gs CETV. In my view, these costs provide a revealing window into the 
real value Mr G would lose if he transferred out to a personal pension plan.
So, there was simply no reliable evidence from Vision here that Mr Gs transferred funds 
could confidently exceed the critical yield rates to an extent that supported the advice to 
transfer away from a DB scheme. Even small differences in projected growth rates can have 
a substantial effect over time, so I think these figures show Mr G would most likely receive 
lower pension benefits in the longer-term by transferring to a personal pension. And with the 
effects of charges and fees, I think that would also be the case even if Mr G moved with his 
existing scheme to the PPF.
Ive noted that Vision prepared a number of examples of how Mr Gs transferred pension 
funds could last him into old age. These were contained in the transfer analysis and the 
suitability report. A large number of different scenarios were given and Ive considered 
whether these make any difference to the financial viability of transferring to a personal plan. 
However, these were not like-for-like comparisons with the type of scheme Mr G was being 
advised to leave and so there was a loss of guarantees and benefits compared with the DB 
schemes, which I think were of value to Mr G. Many scenarios were also compared with 
buying a single life annuity (or similar) despite Mr G telling Vision that he was intending to 
marry. And whilst some of the scenarios show his transferred funds running out in his 80s, or 
even at much later ages beyond this, Mr Gs benefits under the DB scheme lasted for life. As 
I also explain later, I dont think it was really possible at this point in Mr Gs life to say what 
level of retirement income he would be likely to need.
Overall, I think Mr G would have found the many different examples of cash flow modelling 
confusing and I dont think fair comparisons were being made.
Of course, Visions recommendation was evidently supported by other reasons to transfer 
away. Ive therefore thought about all the other considerations which might have meant a 
transfer was suitable for him, despite providing the overall lower benefits mentioned above. 
Ive considered these below.Other reasons the transfer was based on
In its suitability report Vision recommended a transfer to a personal pension based on what it 
said were Mr Gs objectives, which were listed. In addition to trust issues with his employer, 
a priority for Mr G was retiring early. He also expressed a wish that his pension could be 
passed to his children in the event of him passing away. Vision then based its 
recommendation to transfer on the following areas which Ive summarised:
Mr Gs option within BSPS lacked flexibility and he wanted to retire at 57. He also 
wanted the option to maximise his tax-free cash element from his pension.
He wanted to select his own pension investment strategy to match his ATR and 
benefit from low charges. He could draw income whenever he wanted.  
He lacked trust in his employers scheme(s).
So, it seems that Vision also recommended the transfer for the flexibility and control it 
offered to Mr G. I have therefore considered all of these issues in turn. 
Flexibility
Vision said Mr G wanted to have an annual income of around £14,000 in his retirement. 
However, retirement for Mr G, aged 43 years old, was still a long time off. Whilst Im sure he 
may well have had an aspiration to retire at 57, Ive noted his two children were just three 
years and one year old respectively. Ive also seen no real detail around his partners 
earnings at the time. 
So, I think Vision should have started from the position that early retirement - and what he 
might need to live on if retired - could be no more than an educated guess at that point in 
time. I think its fair to point out that in reality Mr G was only in mid-career and more than 
likely he had some years before him where his family situation would no doubt evolve and 
his priorities and challenges could change. 
So, Visions job here was to provide realistic advice with this in mind, which was in Mr Gs 
best interests. And basing a recommendation to irreversibly leave his DB pension, on no 
more than retirement aspirations that were so far off was, in my view, a very poor start. 
Vision referred to Mr G being able to access the maximum tax-free cash via a personal 
pension. Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can be accessed from a personal 
pension when compared against a DB scheme; this is because the values and benefits of 
the two schemes are calculated differently. But Vision should have been telling Mr G at the 
time that extra tax-free lump sums being removed from a personal pension, potentially from 
the age of 55, also came with consequences in that the amount left for his later retirement 
years would obviously decrease. 
So, whilst I accept the notion of accessing more tax-free cash might have been appealing, 
this needed to be considered against the other options Mr G faced, including opting for the 
BSPS2. Again, I also come back to Mr Gs age at the time and the fact that these 
assumptions about what Mr G would or wouldnt need when he retired, were effectively a 
best guess.
Even if I were to accept £14,000 was roughly what Mr G needed to fund a retirement  which 
in all likelihood was probably many years away  Ive seen nothing that shows the BSPS2 
wouldnt have helped meet these needs anyway. For example, in its transfer analysis Vision 
said that Mr Gs estimated annual pension upon his NRA was £22,953 per year under BSPS2. If taking a tax-free lump sum it was estimated to be £15,805 with £105,371 cash. 
Even at the age of 57 the annual pension was £18,099 or £13,205 with £88,035 in cash. All 
these figures already met his supposed income requirements in retirement. But in addition to 
this, I dont think Vision promoted the additional income and flexibility Mr G would enjoy at 
retirement because he had also recently joined his employers new defined contribution 
(DC) scheme. 
So, even if he did retire at the comparatively young age of 57, Mr G (and also his employer) 
would have been making contributions to this second pension for around 14 years. This 
means he could have accessed this second pension as he saw fit or when he wanted to 
retire and it would have complemented his existing BSPS2 scheme. In my view, he would 
have been in a good position: the DB pension (BSPS2) was guaranteed and index linked; 
and the DC pension had the added flexibility were his circumstances to change. I think this 
fitted in very well with Mr Gs likely financial needs going forward.
I therefore think Mr Gs circumstances were much more aligned to him retiring from a DB 
scheme in this case, such as BSPS2, and drawing this pension in the way it was originally 
intended. I think Visions advice should have reflected this.
Death benefits 
Vision says that death benefits were discussed at the time and the personal pension would 
better enable the retention of the value of the funds if Mr G died. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension were probably made to look like an attractive feature to Mr G. 
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr G might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the 
priority here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension 
is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Vision explored to 
what extent Mr G was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher 
death benefits.
Ive noted that at the time Mr G was unmarried. But there was clearly a discussion about this 
as its referred to in documents Ive seen from the advice session. I therefore think this is 
relevant to the way the significant death benefits in BSPS2 ought to have been viewed.
Whilst it could be alleged that this is using the benefit of hindsight, what was known at the 
time is that Mr G and his partner had two dependent children. The facts also strongly imply 
theirs was a long-term relationship and so I think marriage was something that ought to have 
been clarified more by the adviser. If married, this made the death benefits in BSPS2 very 
relevant to their situation. 
In this context, I think the likely death benefits attached to the new DB scheme (BSPS2) 
were underplayed. Mr Gs children already qualified for certain benefits under the BSPS2 
and as they were only very young, this benefit was relatively long lasting as at the point of 
the advice. But the spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 would have been useful to his 
partner if she and Mr G married and he then predeceased her. I dont think Vision made the 
value of this benefit clear enough. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not 
dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal 
pension was. 
In any event, there may not have been a large sum left anyway in a personal pension upon 
Mr Gs passing, particularly if he lived a long life. So I dont think the advice should have implied his partner and / or their children would benefit more from a personal pension. 
Furthermore, it doesnt appear that Vision took into account the fact that Mr G could have 
nominated someone as the beneficiary of any funds remaining in his DC scheme. So, to this 
end, Mr G had already ensured part of his pension wouldnt die with him. 
Its likely the issue of life insurance was discussed in this case as it does look like some 
quotes were obtained. However, it looks like these quotes were based on insuring the full 
value of Mr Gs CETV and at £377,696 this was expensive. Term life insurance may have 
been a much more affordable product if he really did want to leave a legacy for his loved 
ones. I see this too was quoted, but again for the full value of the CETV. Insuring the full 
CETV amount wasnt Mr Gs only life insurance option. At 43 years old and apparently 
healthy, term insurance for a lower insured sum could have been a good alternative to 
transferring to a personal pension just for the supposed death benefits. Mr G didnt need to 
insure the full amount, not least because he was building a significant DC pension where 
named beneficiaries could have been named.
Im therefore clear that in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a 
transfer to a personal pension justified the likely decrease of the valuable retirement benefits 
Mr G would enjoy through the BSPS2.  
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Vision said Mr G wanted control of his pension going forward and its investment strategy. 
Whilst I can see he did have some experience of owning shares and a short-lived 
endowment policy, theres no real evidence of what his personal involvement in money 
market type investing actually was. 
If transferring to BSPS2, as a DB scheme this was already managed on his behalf by 
trustees. There were certainly no advantages around cost in transferring out to a personal 
plan. In any event, Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me that Mr G really had a 
capacity or desire to manage his pension if he transferred out to the extent that it was 
influential in his decision about what to do. In my view, Visions statements about control over 
the funds are somewhat vague and generic, and they dont explain how Mr Gs personal 
control over the funds would be in his best interests.
However, I do accept that its clear that Mr G, like many employees of his company, was 
concerned about his pension. His employer had recently made the announcement about its 
plans for the scheme and Vision said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative 
things about the PPF and Vision said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr G was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was Visions obligation to give Mr G an objective picture and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated Mr Gs concerns about the 
scheme moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Vision 
should have reassured Mr G that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr G through the PPF would have still provided a 
significant portion of the income he thought he needed at retirement, and he was still unlikely 
to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his ATR. And although the increases in 
payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these concerns should have led to Visions 
recommendation to Mr G to transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr G. But Vision 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr G might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr G needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr G was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS. By transferring to a personal 
pension, the evidence shows Mr G was likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And I dont 
think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh 
this. I think Vision ought to have advised him against transferring out of his DB scheme for 
this reason, particularly as it meant hed be worse off in retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Gs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I think it was clear to all parties in November 2017 that BSPS2 was most likely going ahead. 
Mr G still had several years before he intended to retire. So, I don't think that it would have 
been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme 
entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early 
retirement. By opting into the BSPS2, Mr G would have retained the ability to transfer out of 
the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. 
Also, although not yet married, I think he would have wanted to at least consider a wifes 
pension and that it would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would 
be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr G chose to do so). I say this 
because of the particular relationship Mr G was in at the time. That he and his partner also 
had children was another factor, as they may have been able to draw benefits from the 
scheme under certain circumstances. The annual indexation of his pension when in payment 
was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I think Vision should have advised Mr G to opt into the BSPS2. 
I have considered whether Mr G would have transferred to a personal pension in any event. I 
accept that Vision disclosed some of the risks of transferring to Mr G, and provided him with 
a certain amount of information. But ultimately it advised Mr G to transfer out, and I think he 
relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr G would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against Visions advice. I say this because Mr G asked Vision for advice and this pension 
also accounted for almost all of his retirement provision at that time. So, if Vision had 
provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it 
wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Gs concerns about the PPF were so great that he would 
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. So if Vision had explained Mr G was also unlikely to exceed the benefits 
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet his income needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have carried 
significant weight.
In light of the above, I think Vision should compensate Mr G for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr G, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Visions unsuitable advice. I consider Mr G would 
have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd 
been given suitable advice. So, Vision should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for 
comparison purposes.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr G whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now, in line 
with current guidance, or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published. He doesnt want 
to wait for the new guidance to come into effect. 
I am therefore satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a 
loss is identified, will provide fair redress for Mr G. 
For clarity, Mr G has no plans at present to retire any earlier than age 65. So, compensation 
should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the 
FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Gs acceptance of the decision.
Vision may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Gs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Gs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Gs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr G within 90 days of the date Vision receives notification 
of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Vision to pay Mr G.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Vision to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
I have also considered the impact on Mr G of the unsuitable advice and transfer. Our 
investigator recommended that a sum of £400 should be paid to Mr G by Vision for what he 
referred to the upset and worry caused by this unsuitable transfer. Ive taken into 
consideration Mr Gs age, family circumstances and the substantial amount hed built up in 
his pension to that date; Mr G had built up his pension over a period of 25 years. Also, by 
retirement this DB pension would still have been a significant part of his overall pension 
entitlement so I think the thought of losing benefits would have negatively impacted Mr G. 
So, I agree that Vision should also pay Mr G for the trouble and upset caused by the 
unsuitable advice which has likely had an impact on his retirement planning
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: Ive decided to uphold this complaint and I now direct 
Vision Independent Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr G the compensation amount as set 
out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Vision Independent Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr G any interest on that amount in 
full, as set out above.Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Vision 
Independent Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr G any interest as set out above on the 
sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Vision Independent Financial Planning Limited pays Mr G the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr G.
If Mr G accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Vision Independent 
Financial Planning Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr G can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr G may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman