DRN-3248639
The complaint
Miss K complains that Revolut Ltd have failed to refund £994.43 she says she lost as part of 
a scam.
The details of this complain are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss K was the victim of a bank impersonation scam after she called a number which 
she thought was Revolut (who only offer an in-app chat facility). She was asked to 
download an app which gave the scammer remote access to her phone and was told 
she would need to move her money to a cryptocurrency account in order to keep it 
safe. Miss K then gave her security details which enabled the scammer to move the 
money from her account. 
I appreciate Miss K may not have carried out the physical steps to make the payment 
herself. But the evidence suggest that she had effectively given the scammer 
permission to do so on her behalf, as its likely she knew that money was being 
moved from her account to a cryptocurrency account. I understand she may not 
recall giving the scammer her passcodes for the app. But no other device was used 
to transfer the money. Therefore, I consider it more likely than not that she did 
disclose her security credentials to enable the scammer to make the transfer. On this 
basis, Im satisfied she has authorised the payment in these circumstances, even 
though she may not have transferred the money herself, as she had likely given the 
scammer apparent authority. 
Ive gone on to consider whether Revolut should have done more to prevent Miss K 
from falling victim to the scam. There are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character for her. However, having 
taken Miss Ks account activity and payment history into account, I do not think the 
£994.43 payment was particularly unusual for her at the time. It wasnt of such a 
large amount that it would appear unusual in comparison with her spending history, 
for example, such that the amount ought to have been regarded as suspicious or 
indicating that she might have been at risk of falling for a scam. So, I dont think 
Revolut can fairly be held liable for Miss Ks loss here as Im not persuaded there 
was any obligation on them to intervene or prevent the payment in these 
circumstances.
Ive also thought about whether Revolut could have done more to recover the funds 
after Miss K reported the fraud. She contacted Revolut on 28 August 2020 at 6pm to 
report the matter, by which point the banks fraud team had stopped working for the 
week. The recall request was subsequently made the following week, but the 
beneficiary institution responded to say that no funds remained. I dont think there 
was an unreasonable delay in the time it took Revolut to send the recall request, and 
it doesnt appear that it would have made any difference if they had sent it earlier in 
any event (its common for fraudsters to move money from the receiving account as 
soon as it has been received, for example, so as to prevent it from being recalled). 
So, in the circumstances, I dont think Revolut could have done anything more to try 
and recover Miss Ks funds.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Miss K. But I dont consider that Revolut 
has done anything wrong here, or that theres any fair and reasonable basis in which to hold 
them liable for the money she lost. It follows that I will not be asking them to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman