DRN-3612943
The complaint
Miss A has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as First Direct, mis-sold her a fee-
paying First Directory account in July 2015. Miss A says that she was not made aware of the 
limitations of the benefits that the account came with and was led to believe that the account 
would be beneficial to her.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think the First Directory 
account had been mis-sold. Miss A disagreed and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having done so, I dont think the 
packaged bank account was mis-sold to Miss A.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss A, but Id like to assure her that I have 
considered everything she has provided and said. I think it would be helpful to explain, that 
where matters are either unclear or in dispute, as they are here, I need to decide what I think 
is most likely to have happened, based on the evidence that is available. There is also very 
little information that HSBC has been able to provide from the time of sale, which is 
unsurprising given the timescales involved.
Ive started by considering whether or not Miss A was given a fair choice in opening her 
account. I can see that Miss A already held a fee-free account with HSBC prior to opening 
the First Directory account  so I think she was aware that fee-free accounts existed and 
were an option for her. Miss A has not explained why she thought that she had to have the 
account, so overall I think that she agreed to it knowing it was optional.
So, when taking everything that I have seen on this case into account, I think its more likely 
than not that Miss A agreed to the First Directory account. And this was likely because she 
was attracted (at least initially) to the features it offered, rather than because she felt she had 
no choice. 
My understanding of HSBCs sales process at the time the account was taken out was that 
HSBC would not make a personal recommendation as to whether the account was right for a 
customers individual circumstances. This means that it did not need to assess whether the 
account was right for Miss A, but it did have to give her enough information to decide this for 
herself.
Miss A says she was not told that she had to register her pre-existing medical conditions to 
be covered by the travel insurance policy that the account came with. She also says that she 
was not told that she had to register her car and mobile phone handset to be covered by the 
breakdown cover and mobile phone insurance. Though from what I can see there is no 
requirement to register a car or mobile phone to be covered by these benefits.
I cant be sure if HSBC gave Miss A all of the important information about the account during 
the sales process. But I think the main benefits wouldve been highlighted to make the 
account seem attractive. HSBC has provided a sales script which it says wouldve been 
followed during the sales process and I can see that this script wouldve highlighted the need 
to register pre-existing medical conditions to be covered by the travel insurance. 
I accept that it is possible that this was not mentioned during the initial sales call, but even if 
it were not, and I am not saying that this is the case, I dont think that this wouldve altered 
Miss A's decision to take out the account. Firstly, I can see that if it was not mentioned in the 
initial call it was mentioned in a number of documents over the years that there was a need 
to register medical conditions. So I wouldve expected Miss A to query this earlier than she 
did. Secondly, when Miss A says she did find this out and she says she was told she would 
not be covered by the insurer, she did not cancel the account for two years. This suggests 
that the travel insurance was not the only reason she held the account.
I note Miss As comments that she later had a mobility car so was covered by breakdown 
cover separately. But again all HSBC needed to do was set out the benefits that the account 
came with and it was up to Miss A to decide whether the account was something she wished 
to keep. I cant see that HSBC failed to do this, so I dont think that the account was mis-
sold.
I cant see anything else specific that Miss A was not told that I think wouldve altered her 
decision to take out the account.
I appreciate that, perhaps with the benefit of hindsight, Miss A may now feel that the account 
has been poor value for money and regrets opening the account. But that doesnt mean that 
HSBC was acting unreasonably or unfairly by selling the account to her when it did.
Overall, Ive not seen enough for me to say that Miss A was mis-sold the First Directory 
account. I therefore think it would be inappropriate to require HSBC to refund the fees Miss 
A has paid for the account.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman