DRN-4410430
The complaint
Ms A complains about the fees she was charged by Curtis Banks Limited (CBL) in relation to 
her Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). She considers that because the transfer to CBL 
from another SIPP provider was done without her consent, it shouldnt be allowed to charge her 
the fees that it has. 
What happened
In summary, the background to this complaint is as follows:
Ms A established a SIPP in 2010 with a business called Montpelier Pension 
Administration Services Limited (MPAS) following advice from a firm called Total 
Wealth Management Limited (TWM). The SIPP was established in order to accept 
transfers from Ms As previous pension providers and was subsequently used to 
purchase unregulated investments. And on 19 February 2010 Ms A transferred 
£28,877 into the MPAS SIPP. And on 10 March 2010 she purchased shares in a 
property investment from a business called Harlequin Properties (Harlequin). 
On 6 August 2010, Ms A transferred £28,351.75 into her SIPP. On the same day, she 
paid for another property investment from Harlequin. Both property investments (the 
investments or property investments) were based abroad and were unregulated. The 
annual SIPP fee charged by MPAS was £457 plus Value Added Tax (VAT) bringing 
the total annual fees to around £540. However, in 2011, MPAS came under the 
scrutiny of the then regulator, the Financial Services Authority now called the Financial 
Conduct Authority  I will refer to both bodies as the regulator). MPAS subsequently 
sold its pensions book to CBL in that year (2011). 
CBL said it wrote to all MPAS SIPP holders at the time of sale. The notice explained 
that from 13 May 2011, CBL became the Administrator/Trustee for the transferred 
SIPPs from MPAS. It noted that most things would remain unchanged including the 
rate of fees. The transfer of Ms As SIPP account to CBL was completed in November 
2011. The opening cash balance at that point was £9,736.47. And she still held the 
property investments.
On 22 January 2014 CBL wrote to Ms A in respect of her property investments 
saying that due to various regulatory bodies becoming involved with the Harlequin 
business, there was doubts about the true value of the property investments she 
held. As a result, CBL said it would be placing a nominal value of £1 on both her 
investments. Other than these property investments, Ms A only held cash in her SIPP 
bank account.
In 2016 CBL notified Ms A that her SIPP fees were moving from what she was 
charged by MPAS to its (CBLs) own fee structure. This meant an increase in yearly 
fees. The 2017 statement shows Ms A was charged £660 in this year. 
In 2019 Ms A complained to CBL saying she was unhappy with the fees itd charged 
her. She told CBL shed been away from the UK from May 2013 to June 2018 due to 
ill health, so she hadnt realised her SIPP had been transferred to CBL. And she also 
hadnt known about the fee increase which she said had unreasonably depleted her 
pension funds. Ms A didnt think CBL had any authority to take over her account 
and/or charge her the fees it had without her consent. 
Ms A said she only found out about the above matters after being sent a letter by a 
legal firm in around 2014 which she picked up when she returned to the UK. The 
legal firm represented her in making a compensation claim via the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) against MPAS. And in May 2019 Ms As claim to 
the FSCS was accepted and she received £45,535.52 in compensation for the loss 
shed suffered. 
In July 2019 Ms A withdrew the remaining cash funds from her CBL SIPP via a flexi-
drawdown receiving £1,401.77 tax free cash lump sum and a £3,688.09 pension 
payment. Ms A was charged £144 and £180 respectively for these withdrawals by 
CBL. The last annual fee she was charged was on 5 February 2019 for £420.
Initially, CBL rejected Ms As complaint. It said the transfer from MPAS was done 
correctly and with the oversight of the regulator. In terms of the charges, CBL said 
these had remained the same as the MPAS charging structure up until 2016 and 
Ms A was properly notified of these charges via her statements. CBL acknowledged 
the increase in its fees notified in its letter to clients in 2016. However, in February 
2018, CBL introduced an impaired asset policy. This meant for years 2018 and 
2019, due to the impaired property investments she held, Ms As SIPP qualified for 
the CBL lower charging structure under its impaired asset policy. 
Further emails ensued between Ms A and CBL. Amongst other things, Mr A 
questioned how CBL could set an annual fee when it knew it had acquired her SIPP 
via the regulator and not MPAS. She also noted that CBL wasnt part of the 
agreement she had signed with MPAS. And she also said the only asset she had 
with CBL in 2016 was cash in her SIPP bank account and it (CBL) still increased her 
fees. Ms A said she considered that: This is a criminal act!!!!. 
In its third final response letter, CBL admitted it made a mistake with Ms As withdrawal 
fees which hadnt been charged correctly under its impaired asset fee structure. CBL 
said it would refund Ms A the standard drawdown fees of £144 and £180 and charge her 
the single depletion fee of £300 in line with its impaired asset policy fee structure. 
Ms A was unhappy with CBLs responses, so she brought her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He didnt think CBL 
had done anything incorrectly in terms of the transfer of Ms As SIPP from MPAS. 
However, he considered it had charged her unfairly. He said as CBL had identified in 
January 2014 that both of her property investments were significantly impaired, it 
would have been fair to have lowered her fees at this point. 
CBL agreed to settle the matter in line with the investigators recommendation, but 
Ms A disagreed. She had initially said she wanted all of the fees refunded along with 
£25,000 for the distress this had caused her. She then said she wanted £500,000 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused to her by CBLs actions. She explained this 
amount is appropriate because CBL has, in her view, together with TWM defrauded 
her. Furthermore, she alleges that CBL has produced fictitious bank statements for 
her SIPP account.The matter was passed to me for a decision. CBL confirmed that it had charged Ms A in 
line with the annual fee structure MPAS it (MPAS) had in place prior to the transfer of its 
SIPP book to CBL in 2011. But that CBL had increased its fees from 2016 onwards and 
this is why Ms A was charged more in 2017. CBL explained that when it introduced its 
impaired fees policy in 2018, Ms A was charged £414 in February 2018 and £420 in the 
following year. 
CBL said once Ms A withdrew her pension funds in July 2019, she was no longer liable 
to pay any fees due to the only assets held in her account being impaired assets. CBL 
said that should these assets in Ms As SIPP account realise a value in the future, it 
would have the option to review if any fees should be taken for the period where there 
was no value. But CBL added that it was unlikely these investments would have any 
value in the future. 
I asked CBL to confirm whether Ms A was notified of the transfer of her SIPP from 
MPAS to CBL. CBL was able to provide us with templates of notices showing what 
would have been sent to clients at the time of the transfer. CBL was not able to 
provide Ms As exact letter (with her address on) as the matter had been some time 
ago so the record no longer existed. However, CBL said that the template letter is 
what was sent to all recorded clients. And Ms A was one of those clients. 
I issued a provisional decision on 19 October 2023. I upheld the decision in part. I agreed 
that CBL should refund Ms A part of the charges taken from her SIPP. I noted that apart 
from the impaired assets, Ms A only held cash in her SIPP account. And it seemed unfair to 
charge higher fees and then increase them when only a year after the increase, CBL 
introduced a policy to lower fees for SIPPs with impaired assets. However, in respect of what 
Ms A said about CBL acting fraudulently around the sale of the SIPP business and/or with 
her adviser, I didnt think there was any evidence to support this. I agreed with the 
investigators recommended compensation in that CBL should pay Ms A the difference 
between what she had actually paid and what she would have paid under the impaired asset 
policy if this had applied from 2014 onwards. I also thought CBL should pay Ms A £100 for 
the distress and inconvenience it caused her.
CBL accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. Ms A disagreed. In her 
response, she referred to the CBL notices I relied on in my provisional decision. In essence, 
she said there was nothing to show that she had been sent these notices in 2011. She also 
noted some anomalous features of the notices such as references to her financial adviser, the 
addresses of the CBL business being potentially incorrect and the notices being unsigned. 
In terms of the compensation Id recommended, Ms A said that she considered, based on 
the type of awards that the Financial Ombudsman issues, she should be paid £15,057.88 
into her pension and £35,500 for the impact of the stress this experience has caused her.
So, given no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed back to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not changed my mind and I am upholding the complaint in part. Before I 
explain my reasoning, I understand that Ms A has raised a number of further points in 
response to my provisional decision. Although I may not mention every point she's raised, 
Ive considered everything Ms A has said but limited my findings to the areas which impact on the outcome of the case. I'll also mention at this stage that where there's a dispute about 
what happened I've based my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
Ms A says she wasnt notified of the transfer of her SIPP from MPAS to CBL. But Ive 
seen a copy of two CBL template letters (notices) that it says were sent to MPAS 
clients at the time of transfer. 
The notice sent in or around May 2011 (the May 2011 notice) was headed Curtis 
Banks acquisition of Montpelier Pension Administration Services Ltd (bold 
CBLs emphasis). Amongst other things this notice said: We are pleased to inform 
you that on 13 May 2011 Curtis Banks PLC acquired the assets and clients of 
Montpelier Pension Administration (MPAS) and as a result have become the operator 
of your pension arrangements. 
Similarly, a notice dated 4 July 2011 (the July 2011 notice), gave clients a brief 
update about the transfer. CBL also noted it had: already written to your financial 
adviser to inform them of the transfer of the administration to Bristol, so they are 
fully aware of the position. This notice like the May 2011 notice, had the contact 
details of the Managing Director and another employee who was based at the CBL 
Leicester office. 
Ms A seems to suggest in her response to my provisional decision that because of 
some of the details (or lack of details) in these notices, they dont seem genuine. And 
she also seems to suggest this gives more weight to her belief that they were not sent 
to her. But I think its likely that these notices were sent to all former MPAS clients 
directly as well as their financial advisers (if applicable). And from what I can see 
Ms A lived at the same address as she currently does. She also said she did not 
move abroad until 2013 and returned in 2018. So, I think its more likely than not that 
the notices sent in May and July 2011 from CBL were sent to, and received at, Ms As 
recorded address. 
CBL hasnt been able to provide a copy of the notices that were actually addressed 
to Ms As but I consider its reasonable that a copy of Ms As original letter no longer 
exists given the passage of time. From what I can see, CBL had Ms As correct 
address from the outset which was in the MPAS application form. It has also written 
to her since that time to the same address where she still resides. So, as Ive said, on 
balance, Im satisfied CBL sent notices of the transfer to Ms A in 2011. All in all, I 
consider CBL gave Ms A clear, fair and not misleading information about the change 
of her SIPP provider and the charges that would apply. 
Further, I dont think CBL needed Ms As consent for CBL to start charging her in line 
with the terms it sent to her at the time. These charges were the same as the ones 
shed been charged by MPAS. And the sale of the SIPP book was a legitimate sale 
at a time when MPAS was under the scrutiny of the regulator. So, I dont think theres 
any evidence, as Ms A claims, that CBL has acted fraudulently in relation to the 
transfer. I know that Ms A thinks the transfer of the SIPPs to CBL was done via the 
regulator. But the regulator was overseeing the process. The sale of the SIPP book 
was carried out between the relevant parties which were MPAS and CBL. 
In terms of the fees, CBL did charge fees which were broadly in line with that charged 
by MPAS up until 2016. Nonetheless, in January 2014, CBL told Ms A that her 
property investments had become impaired and were valued at £1 each. Despite this, 
CBL continued to charge Ms A at its normal fee of £548 and then in 2017 this 
increased to £660. It was only in 2018 that Ms A was subject to CBLs impaired asset policy which it introduced in that year (2018). And her fees reduced to just over £400 
for February 2018 and February 2019 because her account was switched to the 
Simple SIPP which had lower fees. 
I accept CBLs argument that it did notify Ms A about the increase in its fees in line 
with its contractual obligations. And that because Ms A still had cash in her SIPP 
bank account and the impaired assets, the SIPP was still subject to charges. I also 
appreciate there is still work to be done even when there are impaired assets in an 
account and it is generally not the Financial Ombudsmans role to say what a 
business should charge for its services. But what we can do is decide whether CBL 
has acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances of this case. 
Once CBL became aware the property investments were impaired in 2014, leaving 
the only valuable asset as the cash in the SIPP bank account, I think it shouldve 
considered taking actions which would have helped Ms A lower her fees, such as it 
did in 2018. It was only a year after it increased its fees in 2017 that it introduced its 
impaired asset policy. But I cant see any reason why a similar approach could not 
have been taken sooner in Ms As case. I dont think it needed an introduction of a 
policy to act fairly in the way it charged fees for a client in Ms As situation.
I accept if Ms A had other assets in the account apart from cash, and the impaired 
assets were just a proportion of those assets, then the situation may have been 
different. But this was not the case and I think CBL shouldve acted sooner to give 
Ms A the option to switch to a lower charging account. I cant see it did that until 2018. 
So, I agree with the investigator, that it would be fair and reasonable for CBL to refund 
Ms A the difference between what she paid from 2014 to 2017, and what she would 
have paid if she had been able to switch to a lower charging SIPP under its impaired 
asset policy.
Another claim Ms A makes is that CBL acted with TWM to defraud her. But the SIPP 
provider at the time of the purchase of the Harlequin assets was MPAS. So, its 
MPAS who would have been the SIPP provider who dealt with her financial adviser 
(TWM). I also note that Ms A made a successful claim via the FSCS as a result of the 
failure of MPAS. So, Ive seen no evidence to substantiate Ms As claim that CBL 
acted with TWM to defraud her, or indeed, that she has been defrauded. 
Ms A also says the SIPP bank account statements are fictitious but, in my view, the 
bank statements shes provided dont support this. As noted by CBL as part of the 
transfer of her SIPP, the banking arrangements were also migrated from MPASs 
own account with the Bank of Scotland to CBLs own pooled bank account held with 
Barclays. I think CBL has provided a reasonable and fair explanation of the reasons 
for the Bank of Scotland account transfer and I cant see any evidence that it (CBL) 
has provided Ms A with any fictitious bank statements.
I will now address Ms As further points following my provisional decision. 
Ive taken on board what Ms A says about the notices. However, I still think its more likely 
than not that she was informed of the takeover of her SIPP account in 2011 from MPAS to 
CBL. So, whilst Ive taken into account the anomalous features of the notices she refers to in 
her latest submissions, I dont think these issues prove, or disprove, that she was notified, in 
writing, about the transfer of her SIPP account. Ms A hasnt disputed that she was in the UK 
at her recorded address in 2011. And this is the same address CBL has in its records for 
her. So, I think its more likely than not that, along with all other affected clients, she was 
notified by CBL and possibly, MPAS, of the transfer of her SIPP. I also dont think Ms A has provided any persuasive evidence of fictitious bank statements 
as she says. The statements she has sent to us relate to the period when MPAS was still her 
SIPP provider and I cant see that CBL has done anything incorrectly in this respect.
In terms of the redress Ms A considers the Financial Ombudsman should award her, I dont 
think the amounts she has quoted are proportionate to the distress and inconvenience 
caused to her. I consider that she was inconvenienced by having to complain more than 
once and it did take at least three letters from CBL before it admitted a mistake it had made 
with one aspect of its charging. And given this was her pension, I can understand the 
distress these issues would have caused her. But I think £100 is in line with our awards for 
this level of distress and inconvenience. I also think the financial part of the redress is fair 
and reasonable for the reasons Ive set out above.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Curtis Banks Limited should pay Ms A as follows:
(a) Pay the difference between what Ms A paid in the years 2014 to 2017 in annual fees 
and what she would have paid if Curtis Banks Limiteds 2018 impaired asset policy 
had applied. I think it would be fair to charge the lower figure of £414 as the amount 
she would have paid under its impaired asset policy. 
(b) Pay the calculation set out in (a) above directly to Ms A, adding 8% simple interest 
per year to the calculated redress from the day Ms A withdrew her pension funds 
from her SIPP to the date of the settlement. 
(c) Pay Ms A £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
(d) Pay all of the redress directly to Ms A.
If HM Revenue & Customs requires Curtis Banks Limited to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to above, it must give Ms A a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and I require Curtis Banks Limited to pay Ms A the redress as set out 
above under Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman