DRN-3424448
The complaint
Mr J, represented by his partner Ms S, has complained about his car insurer, esure 
Insurance Limited (Esure) in respect of action it took following him notifying it of the theft of 
his cars catalytic converter.
What happened
Ms S called Esure and told it she had a claim to make because the catalytic converter of 
Mr Js car had been stolen. She was told thered be an excess of £250 to pay and the no 
claims discount would also be affected. Ms S felt this was unfair because they were not at 
fault for the theft. It was agreed that a notification only of the incident would be logged. And if 
the thieves could be identified a claim would be made and Esure would look to try and 
recover any outlay.
Ms S later complained to Esure. She said the policy was a comprehensive one  the excess 
for which was £100, the £250 excess only applied to third-party claims for fire and theft. She 
asked for Esure, as they had not been at fault, to find a way to stop the no claims discount 
from being affected so they could benefit from the policy without losing out. Ms S said every 
time she called Esure she was told different things. She said given the service received, 
Esure should pay in full for the repair (not deducting an excess), including providing 
additional security for the replaced converter and ensure the no claims discount is not 
affected.
Esure said it had recorded this as a notification only, so the no claims discount would not be 
affected. But if Mr J wanted it to cover the cost of repairing the car, it would have to be 
logged as a claim, with the excess being paid and the no claims discount being affected. It 
explained this would be the case for any policyholder in similar circumstances. A complaint 
was made to this service.
Our investigator didnt think Esure had done anything wrong. So she didnt uphold the 
complaint. Ms S disagreed with the investigators findings. The complaint was passed for an 
ombudsman to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it should be upheld. Ive explained my views below.
I know that Ms S thinks it would be easy for this service to make Esure refund their costs  
that they are a victim of a crime, and that for Esure to try and make them pay the £250 
excess, as well as letting any settlement affect their no claims discount, makes things worse. 
But I need to explain that I can only make an award against an insurer  make it pay 
something  if I find it has done something wrong. That might be that it has acted out of line 
with the policy terms, or because it has provided poor service in some way.
I know Ms S feels that the whole point of having insurance is so they are protected when 
things go wrong. To an extent she is correct in that view. But like many things there are both 
terms which apply to that cover, and consequences that will flow from making a claim. 
When stating what excess would apply, Esure was not seeking to treat Mr J as a third-party 
claimant rather than a comprehensive policyholder. As set out in the schedule for the policy 
there are different excesses that apply to different types of losses. And the schedule states 
that the policy excess for theft is £250. As the subject matter of Mr Js claim was theft (of the 
converter), I think it was reasonable for Esure to say the £250 excess would apply.
Some insurers offer a no claims discount. This is a discount which is applied to a policy 
where either no claims have been made, or when a claim has been made but which hasnt 
cost the insurer anything. That might be because the insurer has recovered their money paid 
out on the claim from the person who was responsible for the loss. But if a claim is made, 
which is settled by the insurer and where it is unable to recover its outlay  because the 
person responsible is untraceable, for example  and unless the policyholder protected their 
no claims discount, then the discount will usually be affected because of the claim. Mr J had 
not protected his no claims discount and seemingly the thieves were untraceable. I think 
Esure acted reasonably when it said the no claims discount would be affected by any claim 
made for this incident which it settled. 
Im not persuaded Esure provided poor service. Ive heard the notification call but Esure 
doesnt hold a recording of the call Ms S had with another advisor, during which she thinks 
she was given contradictory information about how or whether Esure would seek recovery of 
its claim outlay. Without hearing that call I dont know if Esures advisor acted incorrectly. 
Whilst I dont doubt Ms Ss understanding, I still have to hear both sides of a conversation to 
reasonably decide what happened. Without hearing what was said I cant reasonably 
determine if the advisor was at fault. 
Whilst Ms S says that Esure didnt respond to emails she sent it, I havent seen any emails 
that went unanswered. Im not persuaded that Esure failed Mr J in this respect.
I know Ms S thinks that Esure has acted in an underhanded way to stop Mr J from claiming 
from a policy they were paying for. But, from what I have seen, Esure advised Ms S in line 
with the policy terms, such that Mr J could then make an informed decision about whether or 
not to make a claim. I think it did so fairly and reasonably. And I havent seen that poor 
service was provided. Therefore, there are no grounds on which this complaint can be 
upheld. Accordingly, I cant fairly and reasonably make Esure reimburse Mr J the amount 
paid to repair his car.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against esure Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman