DRN-3288314
The complaint
Miss M complains that Sygma Banque trading as Sygma Bank UK irresponsibly lent to her
and they did not support her through her financial difficulties.
What happened
Miss M applied for a branded credit card with Sygma in July 2010 and her application was
accepted. Shortly thereafter, Miss M went on long term sick from work from September 2010
to February 2013. Miss M said that while she received full pay for the first six months, she
received only half pay for the following six months, before receiving statutory sick pay. Miss
M says her employment ended in September 2014.
Miss M complained to Sygma. She said the credit card was approved irresponsibly and they
hadnt helped her with her financial difficulties before the outstanding balance was
transferred to a third party debt management company in 2016.
Sygma did not uphold Miss Ms complaint. They said that at the time of her application all of
the relevant checks were completed. In relation to her financial difficulties, Sygma said her
account was on hold while they waited for a financial statement and proof of income, to
establish her affordability and to set Miss M up on arrangement plan based on her personal
circumstances. Sygma said the hold was applied on the 12 July 2014 and as they did not
receive a response, the hold was removed in November 2015. Sygma said letters were sent
to Miss M in the meantime to inform her of the information required. Her account was then
passed to a third party debt management company in April 2016, as Sygma say their
collections process had been exhausted. As a gesture of goodwill, Sygma refunded Miss Ms
late payment charges of £108.
Miss M wanted our service to review her complaint as she wasnt satisfied with Sygmas
response. Our investigator upheld her complaint. She said Sygma had collected the
household income for Miss M as opposed to her personal income and therefore Sygma did
not carry out appropriate checks which were documented in the Consumer Credit
sourcebook. She said that the rent for Miss M was recorded incorrectly and our investigator
believed that Sygma didnt do enough to help Miss M while she was having financial
difficulties.
Our investigator thought it was fair for Sygma to refund Miss M any fees, interest and
charges that they havent already done, remove any adverse information they recorded on
her credit file and pay her £150 for the trouble and upset they caused her.
Sygma asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. They said that the Consumer
Credit sourcebook was not added to the Financial Conduct Authority handbook until 2014,
so they would not have been able to work to these regulations at the time of the application
in July 2010.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint, I have taken into account the relevant law, regulations, rules
and guidance in determining whats fair and reasonable here. In doing so, Ive taken into
account the relevant rules Sygma should have been following in 2010, when they accepted
Miss Ms application. As Sygma have correctly pointed out, the Consumer Credit sourcebook
had not been issued yet, so the relevant rules here would have included the Office of Fair
Trading (OFT) and their guidance  the Irresponsible Lending Guidance and also the
Lending Code.
In the OFT's view, all assessments of affordability should involve a consideration of the
potential for the credit commitment to adversely impact on the borrower's financial situation,
taking account of information that the creditor is aware of at the time the credit is granted.
The extent and scope of any assessment of affordability, in any particular circumstance,
should be dependent upon  and proportionate to  a number of factors.
Section 4.2 of the OFT guidance said: Whatever means and sources of information
creditors employ as part of an assessment of affordability should be sufficient to make an
assessment of the risk of the credit sought being unsustainable for the borrower in question.
In our view this is likely to involve more than solely assessing the likelihood of the borrower
being able to repay the credit in question. We consider that before granting credit,
significantly increasing the amount of credit, or significantly increasing the credit limit under
an agreement for running account credit, creditors should take reasonable steps to assess a
borrower's likely ability to be able to meet repayments under the credit agreement in a
sustainable manner.
So Ive considered what checks Sygma say they have carried out. Sygmas data shows that
Miss M had a household income of between £20,000 - £29,000. But this didnt take into
account Miss Ms individual circumstances as she was living with her mother at the time of
her application. Miss M has said that her income was approximately £1,300 per month net at
the time of the application, which would have been slightly lower than the household income
which Sygma had collected.
But thats not all Sygmas data shows. The data shows that Miss M requested a balance
transfer of £14,000. Given the time thats passed since Miss M applied for the Sygma credit
card, her credit file wont show what her outstanding balances were in 2010 and Miss M
understandably cant remember the circumstances at the time. But, if she had applied for a
balance transfer of £14,000, on the balance of probabilities, then its likely she had at least
this amount outstanding with other credit providers at the time she applied for the credit card.
As Miss M had a lot of credit elsewhere, Ive considered if it was irresponsible for Sygma to
approve more borrowing for Miss M. While on the surface this may seem irresponsible, Ive
considered how Sygma have approved the credit and the purpose of the credit which was
initially granted to her.
Miss M cant remember much about the circumstances around this card being taken out and
I can understand that given what shes told us. But that means I have to consider the
evidence I do have here. Sygmas records show that Miss M transferred a balance from one
of her other credit card providers to the Sygma credit card. The balance transfer was for
£5,000. This was transferred on a promotional rate. I can see from Miss Ms statements that
she didnt pay interest for a number of months on this transfer and then she paid
promotional interest. While her statements dont show what interest rate this was, it would
suggest that the interest rate would be lower than the standard interest rate, if it was a
promotional interest rate.That means that Sygmas decision to lend here didnt really make much in the way of new
money or credit available to her. Instead, it looks to have been intended to just refinance
existing borrowing  and in a way that is likely to have helped her in terms of what she was
paying towards interest. By Sygma approving Miss Ms application and subsequent balance
transfer, then I cant see that this disadvantaged Miss M or materially affected her position,
as the card looks to have saved Miss M interest on the money she transferred to Sygma. Its
important to note that the credit limit granted by Sygma wasnt new credit as such, as Sygma
had taken on amounts that were already outstanding.
Ive also considered Miss Ms financial situation at the time she was approved for the credit
card. Miss M has said she was working full time in July 2010. So although Miss M went on
sick leave only two months later, Ive seen no evidence that Miss M provided Sygma which
should have prompted them to be aware of the personal circumstances that Miss M would
have to deal with in the coming years and I think its unlikely that Miss M herself would be
aware of the events which were to follow shortly after the account was opened. I dont think
what happened here wouldve been reasonably foreseeable for Miss M or Sygma.
So ultimately, Im persuaded that Sygma werent irresponsible to grant the credit limit that
they did here as Sygma would have been helping to ease Miss Ms financial situation by
offering her a promotional interest rate, which would save her interest on what she was
paying elsewhere. While too much time has passed to know what Miss M did with the credit
card where the balance was transferred from, I couldnt hold Sygma responsible for any
actions that Miss M may have taken with a third party, such as if she didnt reduce her credit
limit by the amount of the balance transfer or if she reused the credit limit on a third party
account. So for the reasons Ive already given, Im persuaded that Miss Ms financial
difficulties started when she was off work sick and her income drastically reduced because
of this.
Ive then considered what Miss M has said about Sygma not helping her while she was
suffering financial difficulties. As previously mentioned, as these events happened a number
of years ago, the evidence available to me is limited here. So Ive had a look at what both
parties have said in order to find out what likely happened here, on the balance of
probability.
Sygma have said that they placed the account on hold from 12 July 2014 and it looks like
that was done to help Miss M. Ive looked at Miss Ms August 2014 statement and it appears
this is what happened as there was no interest, fees or charges added to the account, unlike
previous months.
Sygma have said that in these instances they would send an income and expenditure form
for Miss M to complete, but they confirmed that they hadnt received a copy of this from Miss
M. But she says that as far as she is aware that she did provide Sygma with her income and
expenditure details.
I think on the balance of probabilities here that Sygma did not receive a completed income
and expenditure form. I say this as they say their system search would have shown incoming
correspondence from Miss M, but none was received regarding this document. But I am
persuaded that they tried to help Miss M during her financial difficulties. I say this as they did
place a hold on her account. This appears to have stopped interest, fees and charges being
applied to her account. And the hold appears to have been in place until November 2015,
when Sygma says Miss M still hadnt been in touch with them.
Ive also considered whether Sygma should have been aware that Miss M was having
financial difficulties before the hold was placed on her account. Miss Ms statements showed
that she had regularly made her minimum monthly payment between 2010-January 2014and at times, when arrears had built up, she had cleared them.
I asked Miss M how she was able to maintain the monthly payments. Miss M told me that
she borrowed the money from a family member. She said that when she cleared the arrears
in January 2014 with a payment of £648.96, she had pawned every piece of jewellery she
had ever owned. But because Miss M had been often making her payments to Sygma during
this timeframe, I cant say that they should have been aware that Miss M was having
difficulties during this timeframe as they were regularly receiving a monthly payment. So it
follows I dont intend to ask Sygma to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Both parties accepted the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman