DRN-3816757
The complaint
Mr P complains about the performance of his pension held with Scottish Widows Limited. 
What happened
Mr P holds a pension with Scottish Widows, which is invested in a cash fund and the 
Pension Protector fund. 
In 2021, Mr P complained to Scottish Widows about the performance of his pension as the 
value had dropped. He thought Scottish Widows had failed to manage the Pension Protector 
fund properly, and ought to have taken action against its downturn in performance. 
Scottish Widows didnt uphold the complaint. It said that lower risk funds, such as the 
Pension Protector fund, perform relatively poorly when there is the threat of inflation. It also 
said there had been a higher-than-average amount of volatility in the financial markets. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr P brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought the fund had 
decreased in value because it invested in market-based assets which can fluctuate in value.  
Mr P didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mr Ps pension is invested across two funds, his complaint is about the 
performance of the Pension Protector fund.
This service doesnt generally consider complaints about investment performance. Mr P has 
worked in the financial services industry for many years, and says hes aware that the 
performance of investments can go up and down. However, he thinks that Scottish Widows 
failed to manage the Pension Protector fund appropriately. He says a professionally 
managed fund called Pension Protector should not have lost the amount it has. He says he 
assumed that, at worst, his funds would stand still. 
I havent considered whether the investment into the Pension Protector fund was suitable for 
Mr P, as he made the decision to invest in that fund himself.
Whilst its clear Mr P is disappointed with the performance of the fund, that does not mean 
that it has been mismanaged by Scottish Widows. Although Mr P says the name of the fund 
doesnt reflect its recent performance, I agree with our investigator that it wouldnt be 
appropriate to form an expectation of a funds performance based on its name. The fund 
factsheet sets out the aim of the fund, how it is invested, as well as information about its past 
performance. 
Ive read the 2022 fund factsheet, and this doesnt give any guarantees about the 
performance of the fund. The fund is considered to be balanced risk and is primarily invested 
in fixed interest securities. Whilst fixed interest investments are generally considered less 
volatile than equities, they can still fall in value. I think its clear from the factsheet that the 
fund was subject to fluctuations and could increase or decrease in value. 
Ive also seen the annual statement sent to Mr P by Scottish Widows in 2022. I understand a 
statement was sent to him each year. This also made it clear that the value of his investment 
could go down as well as up, and reminded Mr P to review his funds from time to time to 
make sure they remained appropriate for him. 
Mr P says at no point has Scottish Widows attempted to move his money to a safer fund 
after his initial complaint. However, I wouldnt have expected Scottish Widows to make an 
investment decision for Mr P without his authority. If Mr P wishes to transfer to another fund, 
he should inform Scottish Widows of this. He may want to seek advice from an independent 
financial adviser before doing so. 
I dont find that Scottish Widows did anything wrong here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman