DRN-3448888
The complaint
Mrs N complains about Soteria Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a claim made under 
her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs N has been represented by a family member in making this complaint. For the sake of 
brevity and clarity, Ill refer to information and comments as coming from Mrs N even where 
theyve in fact been provided by her representative.
Mrs N has a home insurance policy underwritten by Soteria. This covers her contents and 
buildings, amongst other things.
She made a claim in September 2021 after she says she noticed the floors in her kitchen 
and adjacent bathroom had become damaged by water. She said it was unclear at the time 
whether there had been an escape of water from pipes and/or an appliance or water had 
been spilled on the floors.
Soterias loss adjustor carried out an inspection at the property. They recommended that the 
claim be declined because the damage to the floors was long-standing and had occurred 
gradually over time. They said Mrs N would or should have noticed the damage much 
sooner and hadnt taken any steps to reduce or remove the risk of further damage. And on 
that basis, Soteria declined the claim. 
Mrs N then made a complaint to Soteria. They said theyd made a mistake during a phone 
call which had led Mrs N to believe that her claim would be paid. They apologised and paid 
Mrs N £75 in compensation for her disappointed expectations. But they maintained that the 
decision to decline the claim was correct.
Mrs N wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and didnt think Soteria had done anything wrong.
Mrs N disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. She wants Soteria to 
pay for the repairs to her floors, which cost almost £9,000. She also wants them to pay £210 
for the tracking and tracing of the leak which caused the damage  which was from a pipe 
which had been boxed in by previous occupants of her house. And she wants compensation 
for her trouble and upset. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no real dispute in this case about what Mrs Ns policy does and doesnt cover. It 
covers loss or damage caused by an escape of water. But it does not cover damage which is 
gradual and happens over a period of time. It also includes a condition that the customer 
takes all reasonable steps to prevent or reduce the risk of a claim arising.
The inspector who carried out the survey of Mrs Ns property after the claim was made 
provided a fairly unequivocal report. The conclusion being that the damage to Mrs Ns floors 
had been on-going for some time. They referred to the damage as indicating a long term 
issue. They also said Mrs N would have been aware of the damage for some considerable 
time before the claim was made.
The evidence put forward to support this conclusion was reasonably persuasive. The 
inspector referred to a large area (around six square metres) of damaged flooring in the 
kitchen. The laminate in this area was saturated and had areas that had collapsed. The 
chipboard underneath the laminate flooring had dropped and had degraded for some time 
and rotted away.
The inspector noted a similar picture in the bathroom, where there was missing grout, 
uneven tiles throughout and tiles that were cracked. The moisture readings also indicted an 
issue that had been on-going for a period of time.
Im aware that Mrs N says the tiles in the bathroom may have been cracked because there 
was an inadequate supporting floor beneath them  which was discovered when the repair 
work was carried out. 
Whilst that may be the case, the cracked tiles were only one of many reasons the inspector 
gave for believing that the damage was long-standing and would have been apparent for 
some time.
Mrs N says its unfair for Soteria to decline a claim on the basis that the leak had been on-
going for a significant period of time when the pipe that was leaking was in fact boxed in and 
not visible.
I would agree with that up to the point where the signs of the leak outside of the boxing 
around the pipe became evident. And its the expert inspectors view that given the nature of 
the damage observed at their inspection, Mrs N would have noticed those more visible signs 
some considerable time prior to the claim being made.
It is unfair, in my view, for an insurer to decline a claim because a leak happened over a 
period of time, if the policyholder couldnt reasonably have been expected to notice that the 
leak was happening. 
But I dont think thats the case here. Its not unreasonable for Soteria to conclude, on the 
basis of the report provided by their loss adjustor, that: (a) the leak was gradual; (b) Mrs N 
would have noticed it; and (c) she didnt take steps to mitigate her loss or reduce the size of 
the claim she would eventually make.
In the absence of any other expert view, I have to conclude that its neither unfair nor 
unreasonable for Soteria to decline Mrs Ns claim on that basis. 
Im sure that if Mrs N were to provide an alternative opinion from a qualified expert  either 
following an inspection of the property or after review of the photographs taken at the time  
Soteria would take that into account and look again at their decision to decline the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ns complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman