DRN-3638703
The complaint
Mr W complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund the money he lost when he 
fell victim to an email intercept scam. 
What happened
Mr W was in the process of buying a property. He thought hed received an email from his 
solicitor requesting a £12,500 payment into the conveyancing client account. Mr W says the 
email address, font and the secretarys name were identical to the genuine emails hed 
previously received. 
Mr W explained that he called the solicitors office after receiving the email to find out what 
the payment was in relation to, but the person he usually spoke to wasnt available. Hes 
explained he was working away at the time and wanted to get the purchase moving so the 
sale completed before the end of the Stamp Duty holiday. Thinking hed been in contact with 
the genuine solicitors, Mr W made a payment of £10,000 which was the maximum he was 
able to send.
When Mr W was setting up the payment, the payee details didnt match. Mr W decided to 
email the sender back to ask about this and was told the no match was fine and happens the 
first time a payment is made. Mr W explained that hed had a no match result before when 
he was sending money to someone whose account was in their maiden name. He added 
that most of the contact hed had with the solicitors had been by email, so, overall, the 
situation didnt concern him. 
Later that day, Mr W received another email asking him to pay a further £10,000 to different 
account details. He thought this was strange and phoned the solicitors again. This time, it 
was uncovered that the solicitors emails had been hacked. 
Nationwide is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been 
the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.
Nationwide looked into the matter but did not refund Mr W. It said there were sufficient 
controls in place and it felt the appropriate level of care was provided to prevent the scam 
from occurring. It thought there were further checks Mr W should have made before sending 
the money. Nationwide contacted the receiving bank to see if it could recover any of the 
money paid but ultimately this was unsuccessful. 
Unhappy with Nationwides position, Mr W complained. In its final response letter, 
Nationwide said it hadnt made any error with the outcome of his claim. It did not accept 
liability for the funds lost. It felt Mr W had authorised the payment at his own risk because 
hed been given a warning advising him to phone who he was paying to check the account 
details and confirm that he needed to pay. It felt there were discrepancies between the 
genuine emails and the fraudulent correspondence. It said the fraudster used informal 
language and broken English. It pointed out the fraudulent correspondence did not contain 
any of the information the genuine solicitors firm usually included about Stamp Duty, 
Coronavirus and online crime. 
As Mr W remained unhappy with Nationwides response, he contacted this service and 
asked us to look into it. One of our Investigators considered the complaint and was satisfied 
that Mr Ws claim should have been reimbursed under the CRM Code. He didnt feel the 
warnings given by Nationwide were effective. He was also satisfied that Mr W had a 
reasonable basis for belief when he made the payment. He said Nationwide should refund 
the payment in full along with 8% simple interest. 
Nationwide disagreed. It said it provided information to Mr W at three key points during the 
payment journey including displaying a bill, invoice or property sale warning which focussed 
specifically on the scam he fell victim to, but he still proceeded to transfer the money. It 
pointed out that Mr W had paid the solicitors correct account details once before when hed 
first instructed them. It said the genuine emails from the solicitor contained a prominent and 
bold warning about this specific situation, but the fraudulent ones did not. It said that the 
online warning message shown when Mr W was making the payment pointed out that if he 
had received account details in an email this was probably a scam. It felt the information 
Mr W was given clearly addressed all of the key features of the scam he fell victim to along 
with simple, practicable action which would have prevented it. It also felt it had explained the 
consequences of proceeding with the payment. 
It pointed out that Mr W had tried to act on the warnings by attempting to contact his solicitor 
to verify the account details. Nationwide said the response he received provided no 
adequate explanation for this discrepancy. It challenged the email Mr W received, pointing 
out that it was not part of an existing chain of correspondence and went into Mr Ws junk 
mailbox. It felt there were clear indicators this was not genuine email correspondence. 
Nationwide said Mr W had made the payment based on an inadequate explanation hed 
received from the same email recipient hed doubted since hed tried to speak to his solicitor 
by telephone. It concluded by saying this falls a long way short of amounting to a 
reasonable basis for belief.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Nationwide should have refunded the full amount of the 
payment Mr W made. The payment was covered by the CRM Code and I am not 
persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to full reimbursement under the CRM Code apply 
in the circumstances of this case. Ill explain why.Theres no dispute that Mr W made and authorised the payment. When he did so, he 
believed he was transferring money to his solicitor and didnt know he was really interacting 
with a fraudster. But the starting point in law is that Mr W is presumed liable for a transaction 
he authorised, even though it was later discovered that he'd been tricked into doing so. 
Nationwide has signed up to the CRM Code. This means that Nationwide should refund 
Mr W unless it can show that one of the exceptions to reimbursement set out in the CRM 
Code apply to this case. Nationwide has argued that it can choose not to refund Mr W 
because he ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made and 
because he made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that the payee was 
the person the customer was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or 
services and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate. 
Effective warnings 
Mr W was making a payment of £10,000 to a new payee. Under the CRM Code, Nationwide 
should have identified a potential scam risk in the payment journey and provided an 
effective warning. When considering any warning given, consideration must be given to 
whether the warning is likely to have had a material impact on preventing the scam. 
The CRM Code says, as a minimum, an effective warning needs to be understandable, 
clear, timely, impactful and specific. It must also provide information that gives customers a 
better chance to protect themselves against being defrauded and should include appropriate 
actions for customers to take to protect themselves from APP scams. 
Nationwide displayed the following warning text to Mr W:
Be aware of scams 
Received account details in an email?
Contacted unexpectedly? 
Under pressure to pay and not had a chance to compare prices? 
Asked for payment upfront? 
If yes to any of these, this is probably a scam  stop now
Always phone who youre paying using the number on their website or letter. Check their 
account details, and confirm you need to pay. Criminals make their calls, texts and emails 
look like theyre from an organisation or person you trust such as the Government, your 
solicitor or friends. Even if youre expecting to make a payment, emails are hacked and may 
be fake. 
Check with trusted friends and research online whether you really need to pay.
View items youre buying before paying. And whether its an item or service, pay by card. 
Card payments are better protected than paying accounts directly. 
If you continue and this is a scam, youre unlikely to get your money back. If youre 
not sure its genuine, stop now. Taking everything Ive seen and been told into account, Im not persuaded this warning was 
impactful enough to affect Mr Ws decision making in a manner whereby the likelihood of this 
scam succeeding was reduced.
The warning Nationwide presented to Mr W covered more than one type of scam risk. It 
contained information relevant to purchase scams and intercept scams, which can be 
confusing for consumers that dont have specific, in-depth knowledge about particular scam 
types. A lot of the information provided, such as advice to compare prices and pay by card 
was not relevant to the situation Mr W was in.
In addition to this, the warning prompts the reader to reflect on whether they have been 
contacted unexpectedly. But it wasnt unusual or unexpected for Mr W to be in contact with 
his solicitor by email, so I can understand why he could have thought this information wasnt 
particularly relevant to him. 
Nationwide has suggested that its information must have resonated with Mr W to some 
extent as he did attempt to phone his solicitor at the critical moment. But when Mr W first 
tried to phone the solicitor, hes said his reason for wanting to speak to the solicitor was to 
check what the payment was in relation to. Mr W was a first-time buyer, so it is plausible that 
a lot of the conveyancing process was unfamiliar to him. I dont think this action in and of 
itself means that what Nationwide told Mr W went far enough to really bring to life what a 
scam of this nature looks and feels like. 
Mr W has explained that he was unaware of an email intercept scam until it happened to 
him. He didnt know a fraudster can gain access to and monitor email accounts so as to 
impersonate a trusted organisation and send emails that come directly from their email 
address. Nationwide, on the other hand, was familiar with this scam and how it worked. By 
trying to cover multiple scam risks in the same warning and not sufficiently explaining the 
importance and the relevance of confirming account details in person or over the phone with 
the sender, Nationwide made it much easier for Mr W not to recognise his own 
circumstances in the warning. This meant the warning lacked impact and was less likely to 
be effective for customers in Mr Ws position. 
I dont consider that Nationwide did enough to bring to life what an email intercept scam 
looked and felt like. Mr W wasnt given sufficient information to understand why speaking 
directly to his solicitor was so important to preventing a loss to this type of scam. He made a 
judgment to continue with the payment based on the fact he thought he was in contact with 
the genuine solicitors firm. He could not have been expected to anticipate what he didnt 
know about the potential for a solicitors email account to be hacked. 
Overall, I dont think Mr W ignored an effective warning or that it was unreasonable for him to 
proceed with the payment even after having seen Nationwides information. This means that 
Nationwide cant fairly apply it as an exception to reimbursement in this case.
Reasonable basis for belief 
Over the course of the complaint, Nationwide has made comments suggesting Mr W made 
the payment without having a reasonable basis for believing that the payee was the person 
he was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine services and/or the person or 
business with whom Mr W transacted was legitimate. It has emphasised that it considers 
Mr W to have fallen a long way short. But I dont think Nationwide has given sufficient weight 
to the environment created by the fraudster and Im not persuaded that Nationwides 
concerns are enough to establish that Mr W did not have a reasonable basis for belief when 
making the payment.Mr W has explained the fraudulent email didnt feel different to the genuine correspondence. 
Nationwide disputes this. It considers the tone of the correspondence to be too informal and 
says the writing style ought to have stood out because it used broken English.
But from what I have seen, I think it would have been very difficult for Mr W to tell hed 
received fraudulent correspondence. People dont want or expect to be scammed as they 
are going about their daily business. The email came from the solicitors genuine email 
address. As Mr W was unaware of the possibility that the email could have come from 
someone else, it did not stand out to him. Nationwide has expressed concern that Mr W 
found the email in his junk mail, but I dont think this, in and of itself, is enough of a reason to 
say Mr W ought to have had concerns about the legitimacy of the sender. Whilst junk mail 
filters try to divert unwanted spam messages, it is not unusual for genuine messages to be 
caught. 
Ive looked carefully at the genuine emails Mr W received from his solicitor alongside the 
fraudulent emails. I am not persuaded the fraudulent emails are so obviously untoward that 
Mr W ought to have been suspicious about them. Both the genuine emails and the 
fraudulent emails tend to be short, direct and focussed, so the fact the fraudster got straight 
to the point of requesting a payment didnt give Mr W any concerns about the senders 
legitimacy and nor do I consider it ought to have done. 
Ive thought about the negative Confirmation of Payee match Mr W received. But I dont 
agree he acted unreasonably by going on to make the payment. The information he was 
presented with said that some accounts cant be checked because not all account providers 
are using this service at the moment. It also said that this doesnt mean the details that have 
been entered are incorrect. Mr W has explained about a previous time when he received a 
no match message, but the payment did still go to the intended recipient. At this moment in 
time, Mr W didnt think anyone was trying to scam him. He thought hed had contact with the 
genuine solicitors firm and that he needed to make a payment to move the property 
purchase forwards. Ive thought about the steps Mr W took to reassure himself about the 
legitimacy of the transaction and whether it was reasonable for him to proceed with the 
payment. I am not persuaded that Mr W ought to have been more sceptical of the situation. 
Im satisfied Mr W fell victim to a sophisticated scam. 
Overall 
I have carefully considered Nationwides representations about the warnings it gave and 
whether Mr W had a reasonable basis for believing the payment to be genuine. But they do 
not persuade me to reach a different view. In particular, Im not persuaded that Mr W failed 
to take the requisite level of care required for Nationwide to choose not to reimburse under 
the terms of the CRM Code. It follows that under the provisions of the CRM Code, Mr W 
should have been reimbursed for the loss. So I think its fair that Nationwide now refunds the 
money Mr W lost, along with interest as Ill go on to explain below.
Should Nationwide have done more to protect Mr W? 
Ive thought about whether this payment was unusual and out of character. Mr Ws account 
statements show a payment of this size to a new payee wasnt something he typically did. 
So I think Nationwide should have gone further than displaying warnings by contacting Mr W 
and questioning the payment at the time he was making it. If it had done so, I think its more 
likely than not that Mr W would have spoken openly about the property he was buying and 
the contact hed received from his solicitors asking him to pay some money. He would have 
shared information about the situation which the building society, with its greater knowledge 
and experience, would have found concerning, such as new payment details being provided 
by email and funds being requested before contracts had formally been exchanged. I am persuaded that, on balance, the fraud would have then come to light. 
The relevance of this finding is that Nationwide should pay Mr W interest on the redress that 
is payable as a result of it falling short in its obligations from the date of loss, rather than the 
date it decided not to refund him under the CRM Code. I consider 8% simple interest to be 
an appropriate award in the circumstances of this complaint because the money Mr W has 
been deprived of came from his current account and its unclear how he would have 
otherwise used it. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building Society. 
To put things right, Nationwide Building Society should now:
Refund Mr W for the money that was lost to the scam - £10,000
Pay 8% simple interest from the date the payment was made until the date of 
settlement
If Nationwide considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr W a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so Mr W can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman