DRN-3207822
The complaint
Mr S complains about XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limiteds (Catlin) handling of claim 
under his car insurance policy.
Any references to Catlin include its agents and contractors.
What happened
Mr Ss car was declared a write-off having been set on fire in August 2019. He has a 
separate complaint about the declined insurance claim in relation to this. The complaint here 
is about Catlin arranging for the car to be salvaged against Mr Ss instructions. He wanted to 
arrange for salvage of the car himself.
Mr S says the salvage value obtained by Catlin is less than its true value. He also says he 
had belongings in the car, which were not returned to him and he wasnt given the 
opportunity to collect. Mr S says after the car was salvaged, he received a notification from 
the car manufacturers app. He queries how this could happen if the car had been salvaged. 
He says this whole matter has been very distressing for him.
Catlin wrote to Mr S in October 2019 advising his car was in storage. It asked for his 
instructions regarding the removal/disposal of the car. Catlin says it chased for a response at 
the end of January 2020. Mr S emailed back the same day telling it not to auction the vehicle 
for salvage, and that he would organise something for the vehicle. It responded to say the 
car was a category B loss. This meant it was unable to return it. But it would arrange for it to 
be salvaged and return the funds to Mr S. Catlin says no response was received to this 
email.   
Catlin says it received £1,946 for the salvage and asked Mr S for bank details to transfer the 
money. It says he didnt provide this information. 
Mr S wasnt happy with Catlins handling of his claim and referred his complaint to our 
service. Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. She didnt think the car shouldve 
been salvaged given Mr Ss instruction not to do this. But she wasnt persuaded by the 
evidence that Mr S wouldve been able to achieve a higher salvage value. 
Our investigator found evidence Mr S had told Catlin about personal items in the car. But 
Catlin didnt provide the opportunity for these to be collected before arranging for the car to 
be salvaged. She thought Catlin should pay the salvage proceeds plus eight percent simple 
interest. In addition to £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
No information was provided to explain why Mr S received notifications through his app. Our 
investigator suggested this could be related to the recycled parts of the car. But she didnt 
think this point affected the main issue here, which is whether the car should have been 
salvaged.  
Mr S disagreed with our investigators view. He sent a link to an online car parts website to 
support his view that the salvage value was too low. He says that he, had some very 
valuable things in that car, and that £250 is inadequate for the trauma caused. Our 
investigator says the website link provided gives the retail price for parts, which is not 
indicative of the salvage value, or costs involved in arranging the salvage. She asked that Mr 
S provide information to support the belongings he lost. 
Mr S remained unhappy with our investigators view and asked an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint. But I wont be awarding 
anything in addition to what our investigator suggested. I appreciate this will be disappointing 
for Mr S, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Following the fire, Catlin took possession of Mr Ss damaged car. It was then determined to 
be a category B total loss. In its email to Mr S in January 2020 Catlin says this means its 
unable to release the vehicle back into the public space. 
I understand a category B total loss means the vehicle cannot be repaired. But usable parts 
can still be recycled. From the internal emails supplied by Catlin it originally thought the 
salvage value would be £1,500. However, £1,946 was eventually received for the car.
When a vehicle is considered a total loss, the insurer will typically look to recoup some of its 
loss through salvaging the damaged vehicle. But in this case Mr Ss insurance claim was 
declined. So, the damaged car remained his property. 
As above, Catlin asked for Mr Ss instructions regarding salvage, this was in its complaint 
response letter in October 2019. It then chased for a response by email in January 2020. Mr 
S responded the same day to say, please DO NOT auction the vehicle for salvage and I will 
organise something for the vehicle. I will be in touch shortly. 
Catlin responded with, The vehicle is a category B total loss which means that we would be 
unable to release the vehicle back in to the public space. We will be happy to dispose of the 
salvage and send the salvage return to you. The next contact was approximately three 
weeks later when Catlin emailed Mr S to say £1,946 had been received for the salvage.
I dont think its reasonable that Catlin proceeded with the salvage without discussing this 
further with Mr S. I acknowledge it had emailed him back to say it couldnt release his car 
due to the damage categorisation. But it had asked for his instructions and then proceeded 
to salvage the car against his instructions. There is no dispute that the car had to be 
salvaged. The concern here is that Catlin ignored Mr Ss instruction and the salvage value it 
was able to achieve is less than he expected to get.
I have thought about whether Mr S has reasonably shown the salvage value of his car is 
higher than the value confirmed by Catlin. We asked him to provide information to support 
this point. In response Mr S supplied a link to a website for car parts. He says the cost of 
spare parts on this website indicate the salvage value shouldve been higher. I acknowledge 
his point, but this website shows retail prices. I dont think Mr S has reasonably shown the 
salvage of his car shouldve achieved a higher amount based on this evidence. Its 
reasonable to expect additional costs to be involved when a vehicle is salvaged. So, the price will be lower than a simple summing up of the retail price of the recyclable parts. 
Catlin has confirmed the salvage value was £1,946, which I note is higher than its initial 
estimate of £1,500. As above, I dont think Mr S has shown the salvage value Catlin 
obtained was unreasonable. 
I have thought about the loss of personal belongings Mr S says resulted from Catlin 
salvaging his car. We asked him for information to support his losses, but nothing has been 
provided. But I acknowledge Mr S wasnt given the opportunity to collect his personal 
belongings. In the absence of evidence to demonstrate the value of this loss I think a 
compensation payment is fair.
I have also thought about Mr Ss comments that he received notifications through his app, 
after the car had supposedly been salvaged. I havent seen information that explains why 
this happened. But I have seen evidence that supports the salvage was carried out. I can 
understand why Mr S was concerned about the notifications. But I dont think this impacts on 
his dispute about the salvage taking place without his authorisation.
In considering all of this I dont think Catlin treated Mr S fairly when salvaging his vehicle 
against his wishes, or in disposing of his personal items. But I dont think hes shown the 
payment received for salvage was lower than he could have obtained. To acknowledge 
these points, I think a compensation payment for £250 is fair. Along with payment of the 
salvage proceeds with 8% simple interest from the date of salvage until the payment is 
made.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and XL Catlin Insurance Company UK 
Limited should:
pay the salvage proceeds plus 8% simple interest from the date of the salvage until 
payment is provided; and
pay £250 compensation to Mr S for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
decision to salvage his vehicle and for the disposal of his personal items
.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman