DRN-3801575
The complaint
Miss I complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) registered a marker against her at Cifas, 
the national fraud database. 
Mr R is representing Miss I on this complaint. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. Instead, Ill summarise the key points:
Since 2019, HSBC has received, and declined, a number of applications to open an 
account in Miss Is name.
Miss I, supported by Mr R, told HSBC the applications were the result of her being 
the victim of impersonation. In response, it registered a protective marker against 
her at Cifas  which served as a warning to organisations using Cifas to pay special 
attention when Miss Is details were used on an application.
Miss I and Mr R later complained to HSBC about the protective marker. They said it 
was preventing her from opening an account. On review, HSBC removed the 
protective marker  but instead registered a marker against her at Cifas for 
application fraud.
When Miss I and Mr R found out, they complained again. They said the marker was 
unfair as Miss I was a victim and hadnt committed fraud. HSBC maintained the 
marker had been applied fairly. Unhappy with this response, they referred the matter 
to our service. 
Our investigator thought the applications were likely genuine and so the marker was 
fair. He pointed out that we and HSBC had previously received complaints, 
seemingly from Miss I, saying the applications had been genuine and complaining 
that they had been declined. Some were made from an email address used in the 
disputed applications. He didnt think it was likely a fraudster would have done this. 
Miss I and Mr R appealed the investigators view. Theyve pointed out that the details 
in the application are incorrect. For example, the applications say Miss I has been at 
her address since 2014, and that shes employed. Whereas she only moved to the 
UK in 2018 and isnt working. They say that wouldnt be the case if they made the 
applications. Mr R has also explained that Miss I doesnt speak English.
Ive since been in contact with Mr R to ask how he got hold of a final response he 
submitted on a related complaint for Miss I, given that the header shows it was sent 
to an email address used on one of the fraudulent applications. He originally told our 
investigator the final response had been posted to them. Hes since said it was also 
sent to Miss Is genuine email address.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
For me to conclude that HSBC has registered this marker fairly, it doesnt need to 
prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss I is guilty of fraud. But it should have more 
than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to believe that 
fraud or a financial crime has been committed or attempted  and that the evidence 
would support this being reported to the authorities. 
Ive considered Mr Rs point about the details being incorrect. I dont think thats 
enough to show Miss I (including Mr R acting on her behalf) made the applications. 
The whole issue being considered here is whether there have been any material 
falsehoods in applications made by Miss I. There are a number of reasons why an 
individual might provide false information on an application  such as to try to boost 
the chances of the application being successful.  
Looking at the applications HSBC received for Miss I, a number were made from a 
Yahoo email address. One was from an Outlook email address following a similar 
format to the Yahoo address. Mr R has confirmed that neither address belongs to 
Miss I  he says her only email address is a different Hotmail address. 
The details contained in applications from both the Yahoo and Outlook addresses 
were similar, including some matching correct details (such as Miss Is date of birth 
and address) and some matching incorrect details (such as the date she moved to 
that address)  making it likely the same person made both applications. 
HSBC has received at least one email from the Yahoo address saying the 
applications were genuine. And one from the Outlook email saying the applications 
were fraudulent. 
Weve also received a number of complaints from the Outlook email address. For 
example, complaining about an HSBC application being declined. The person 
contacting us said incorrect details had been input and there was incorrect 
information on Miss Is credit file. 
It seems unlikely that someone impersonating Miss I would be telling HSBC that the 
applications were fraudulent, in line with the message from the Outlook address. It 
also seems unlikely that an impersonator would complain to both us and HSBC about 
the applications being declined; its not clear how this would benefit them. 
It also appears Mr R and Miss I have been able to access a final response sent to the 
Yahoo email address, as they sent it to us. When asked about this, Mr R initially told 
us it was posted to them. But as Ive pointed out to him, the version he and Miss I 
submitted was the one sent to the Yahoo email address; its not a postal letter.
Mr R has since said the email was also sent to Miss Is genuine Hotmail address. But 
again, the version sent to us was the one sent directly to the Yahoo email address. 
Im not satisfied weve got a plausible explanation for how they got this if they didnt 
have access to this email address  which was used in one of the applications.  Weighing this all up together, Im satisfied HSBC had reasonable grounds for 
applying the marker. This takes into account the information provided in the 
applications, the varying accounts it has been given about whether Miss I made 
them, and the issue over email access. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Miss I. Given the issues Mr R raised about 
her understanding, weve spoken to her directly to ensure shes aware of the issues 
involved in this complaint  and to ensure Ive taken her circumstances into account. 
Overall, Im not persuaded there is a reasonable basis for me to require HSBC to 
remove the marker. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman