DRN-3506290
The complaint
Miss A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) did not refund several payments 
she made to a company she thought was a legitimate investments trading company (HBC).
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, from August to October 2020, Miss A says she made several international 
payments to what she thought was her trading account with HBC.  These payments were a 
mix of transfers and those made using Miss As Barclays Visa debit card.  At the time, Miss 
A says she believed HBC were a legitimate investments trading company.  However, she 
lost all her money and discovered HBC were operating a scam.
Miss A has highlighted the following payments she made using her Barclays Visa debit card:
The card transaction to [Company R] £250, 10th August 20
The card transaction to [Company K] £233.03, 12th August 20
The card transaction to [Company C] £205.74, 13th August 20
The card transaction to [Company K] £694.60, 1st September 20
The card transaction to [Company K] £1400.27, 1st September 20
Card payments to [Company W] 2 transactions for £2404.40, 3rd September 20
The card transaction to [Company R] £194.01, 4th September 20
Miss A has also highlighted the following payment transfers she made (dates taken from her 
bank statements):
£5,000 to Company I (7 September 2020)
£10,000 to Company S (5 October 2020)
Miss A asked Barclays to recover her money.  As this did not happen, she raised a 
complaint which she also referred to this service.
Barclays says:
A claim was raised, which was defended.  This was put to Miss A, but she did not 
respond, so it did not have the full information required to progress further with the 
chargeback.
Miss A did not have the required evidence under the Visa chargeback scheme.
Due to the spending activity on Miss As account, the payments in question were 
within character of her account.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  Regarding the card 
payments, he held it was fair of Barclays to decline to pursue a chargeback claim on Miss 
As behalf, as there was no reasonable prosects of it succeeding.  Regarding the two 
payment transfers, the investigator said he did not think they would have appeared unusual 
or suspicious to Barclays considering Miss As normal account and payment activity.  So, he 
thought Barclays could not have been reasonably expected to prevent these payments.  For 
these reasons, he did not ask Barclays to refund Miss A her money.
Miss A did not accept the investigators findings.
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
On 6 May 2022, I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint.  For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome the investigator reached.  However, I do so for 
different reasons.  I will explain why below.
Chargeback (card payments)
First, I will consider whether Barclays acted fairly in how it dealt with Miss As request for a 
refund of the card payments in question.
Chargeback is an entirely voluntary scheme, which means banks are under no formal 
obligation to raise a chargeback claim.  The scheme operator can ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them.  
However, such an arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed.  My role is to determine whether the regulated 
card issuer (in this case, Barclays) acted fairly and reasonably in its decision not to pursue a 
chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (in this case, Miss A).
Based on the evidence before me, it appears that some of the merchants Miss A made her 
card payments to were cryptocurrency exchanges.  The service they provided Miss A was 
purchasing cryptocurrency.  Because of this, if Barclays had continued with a chargeback 
claim  irrespective of whether it received Miss As submissions or not  I am persuaded it 
would have likely been unsuccessful.  I say this because the alleged scammer (in this case, 
HBC) was not a party to the card payments, so Miss A could not have a valid claim against 
the legitimate merchants she paid.  These companies provided the services as intended, 
which was to purchase cryptocurrency.  The subsequent transfer to a wallet would not give 
rise to a valid chargeback claim. 
It follows then that Barclays acted fairly and reasonably by not pursuing a chargeback on 
Miss As behalf, as the merchants concerned would have likely been able to defend the 
claim successfully.
Even if some of the merchants in this case did not provide a cryptocurrency service, there is 
nothing significantly unusual about Miss As card payments which, to my mind, would have 
warranted Barclays to intervene or automatically block them.  I take a similar view about 
Miss As payment transfers which I will deal with in more detail below. 
Payment transfers Turning now to the payment transfers Miss A made for £5,000 to Company I on 7 September 
2020; and £10,000 to Company S on 5 October 20202.
I would like to assure Miss A that I acknowledge she says she made these payment 
transfers  including the card payments  because of a scam, and I am sorry she has lost 
her money.  But having looked into what happened, I am not persuaded Barclays should 
reasonably have been expected to prevent this.
This is because I do not think the payment transfers were particularly unusual or suspicious 
in appearance to Barclays considering Miss As normal account and payment activity.  I say 
this because when looking at Miss As bank statements, I can see she has made similar 
significant payments before the ones concerned, which I have checked with Barclays and 
the audit trail shows these payments did not flag as suspicious on its system.  For example 
(dates taken from bank statements):
£10,000 card payment (30 December 2019).
£12,000 card payment (10 June 2020).
£5,000 payment transfer (27 August 2020).
All the card payments set out above.
The payments concerned did not flag as suspicious and there were no warnings, for 
example, published by the Financial Conduct Authority about the merchants concerned.  
I have considered Miss As points about why she says Barclays should have flagged the 
payment transfers.  Having done so, I am still not persuaded they should have flagged.  I am 
satisfied that Miss As account and payment activity normalised the payment transfers.
Taking all the above points together  I am of the view that Barclays acted fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances of this complaint.  So, I will not be asking it to do anything 
further.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss A disagreed with my provisional findings, but Barclays did not respond.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure Miss A that although I have only set out key points below responding 
to her response to my provisional findings, I have read and considered what she has 
provided in full.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If there is a 
submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is simply 
because my points below focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this complaint.
Having considered Miss As response carefully, I am not persuaded to depart from my 
provisional findings.
Ultimately, Miss As card payments were made to merchants which provided their services 
as intended.  That is, the purchase of cryptocurrency.  It may be the case that the service 
some of the merchants provided was to be network through which Miss A could transfer her 
funds to HBC.  However, whether the merchants did the former or latter  ultimately, they 
provided Miss A with a service, which means I am unable to say Barclays acted unfairly in deciding not to pursue a chargeback on her behalf.  It follows that regardless of whether 
Miss A responded to Barclayss request for further information within the timeframe given  
any chargeback claim would not have likely succeeded.  
Further, I am not persuaded Miss As card payments were unusual  particularly given the 
amounts involved.  Similarly, I am not persuaded Miss As payment transfers were unusual 
for reasons I set out in my provisional findings.
Miss A has provided, amongst other things, screenshots of what appears to be text 
messages from Barclays asking her if she made various payments.  She has also referred to 
her personal circumstances at the time.  Having considered these points, I am not satisfied 
they would have had any bearing on the result of a claim under the Visa chargeback 
scheme.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman