DRN-3940063
The complaint
Mr W complains that EUI Limited (EUI) increased the premium for his motor insurance policy 
unfairly when he obtained a full UK driving licence.  
What happened
Mr W says he chose EUI as his insurance provider in May 2022 as he understood the 
annual premium wouldnt increase when he passed his driving test. He says he compared 
quotes as both a provisional and full licence holder to confirm this was the case. Mr W says 
EUI didnt quote the lowest premium as a provisional licence holder. But its premium was the 
same for a full licence holder.  
In October 2022 Mr W passed his driving test and updated his licence details online with 
EUI. This resulted in an additional premium of over £130. He queried this with EUI asking if it 
now rated new licence holders differently. Mr W says he understands that rates can change 
on a monthly basis, but if the rate for a new licence and provisional licence holder hasnt 
changed, there should be no increase. He says in its response EUI hasnt said whether it 
now rates the two licences differently. 
In its complaint response EUI says theres no guarantee that a quote generated in May 2022 
will be the same in October. It explains that new licence holders are a higher risk than 
provisional licence holders for a number of reasons. It says the additional premium Mr W 
paid is a true reflection of the increased risk it had taken on. EUI told Mr W it cant provide its 
underwriting criteria as this is commercially sensitive. 
Mr W didnt think this outcome was fair and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She says having seen EUIs underwriting criteria its 
clear it treated Mr W as it would any other customer. So, she didnt think it had treated him 
unfairly.  
Mr W disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. Let me explain.
The premium an insurer charges is based on an assessment of the likelihood of a customer 
making a claim and how much this is likely to cost. A wide range of factors are considered, 
and each insurer will have its own approach and appetite for taking on risk.
Its not our role to dictate to an insurer what it should charge customers for an insurance 
policy. The price it charges, and the methods used to calculate its premiums are a 
commercial decision for it to make.
So, we wont usually make any judgements about the way an insurer chooses to assess risk, 
the risk assessments it makes  or the premium it charges to cover a certain risk. But we will 
consider whether the insurer treated its customer fairly in the same way it would other 
customers, which is consistent with its general approach to pricing.
We asked EUI for its underwriting information, which it has supplied. Ive read this 
information to determine whether it used its established underwriting criteria when 
calculating Mr Ws premium.
EUIs underwriting criteria is sensitive commercial information, so I cant share it. But Ive 
considered the information it provided, and Im satisfied it did follow its established process 
when calculating Mr Ws premium.
I acknowledge that Mr W took steps to minimise the cost of his motor insurance as he 
anticipated obtaining a full licence within the policy year. I can understand why hes 
disappointed to pay more for his insurance. But there was no guarantee that the quotes he 
obtained in May 2022 would be the same as the quote he received in October. 
Im satisfied EUI has calculated Mr Ws premium correctly based on the underwriting criteria 
in place at the time. And this is the same approach it would follow for any customer in the 
same circumstances. Because of this I dont think it treated him unfairly, so I cant 
reasonably ask it to do any more.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman