DRN-3878956
The complaint
Ms B complains Telford-Reede Ltd (Telford) acting as her insurance broker, failed to take 
appropriate care when setting up her home insurance policy, resulting in a reduced 
settlement when she raised a claim under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms B purchased a barn in 2017 and was in the process of converting it into her permanent 
home. Ms B says she was self-building the property and spent the past five years working on 
the project. She was due to move in late 2022. 
Ms B took out her buildings insurance through Telford-Reede brokers from 2017 until 2021. 
Initially the policy was for cover up to £500,000 and then Ms B reduced the cover to 
£300,000. Ms B says this was the rebuilding cost to her as a self-builder. Renewal 
documents were sent to Ms B each year.
Unfortunately in March 2022 there was a fire at the property and it burned down leaving only 
the walls intact. Ms B notified her insurer of the incident, and the claim was accepted subject 
to it being validated. 
The insurer arranged for the property to be inspected and it was deemed a total loss. And so 
a building surveyor was instructed to assess the rebuilding cost to reinstate the property to 
its pre-fire condition. The cost was estimated at around £800,000 on a self-build basis and 
approximately £1.4m if contractors were engaged. 
Ms S says she wasnt properly advised by Telford as to how to calculate the rebuild value 
and the implications of any error in making this estimate had not been sufficiently conveyed 
to her. Ms S also says the under-insurance adjustment made by the insurer was unfair; since 
she wasnt directed as how to calculate the rebuild value appropriately. And so she 
complained. 
Telford said it sent Ms B a copy of its terms and conditions at the outset of each policy year 
and Ms B should have read through all policy terms, conditions, and warranties; and contact 
Telford if there was anything she didnt understand. And since Ms B didnt contact Telford 
regarding the terms of the policy it assumed she was familiar with them. Telford also said it 
obtained quotes for insurance policies based on Ms Bs instructions of £500,000 of cover, 
and this was based on rebuild costs from the surveyor who was advising Ms B. Telford said 
due to the passage of time it cant evidence Ms B was specifically told about the under-
insurance clause but it was company practice to do so; but in any event the insurance 
documents were sent to Ms B and these should have been reviewed. Telford also said Ms B 
had asked for the cost of a policy providing cover for £300,000 and was reminded at that 
stage that the rebuild cost needed to cover the cost of rebuilding the property as finished. 
The complaint wasnt upheld.  
Ms B referred her complaint to our service. The investigator looked into things for her. He 
said he thought Telford had informed Ms B on several occasions of the importance that the 
information she provided was complete and accurate. He said Ms B was also told the cover 
should provide for the cost of rebuilding the complete property. Because of this our 
investigator thought Telford had behaved reasonably in its role as broker. 
Ms B didnt accept this outcome. Her further comments didnt persuade our investigator to 
change his mind. So she asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. And so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Ms Bs complaint. I understand she will be 
disappointed but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
My remit here is to consider whether Telford behaved reasonably when arranging Ms Bs 
insurance policy. If it didnt I must consider the impact this had on Ms B and any financial 
loss this caused to her.
From the information provided to me, its my understanding that this policy was sold to Ms B 
on an advised basis. Given this, Telford had to make sure the policy was suitable for Ms Bs 
needs. This included making sure it asked Ms B relevant questions to determine suitability of 
the policy and made sure it gave Ms B sufficient information to explain the importance of the 
sum insured being correct. 
Telford said Ms B had initially told it she needed £1m of cover before reducing it to £500,000 
in the first year, and then reducing it to £300,000 the following year. The accounts of what 
was discussed differ between Ms B and Telford. I dont dispute the veracity of either 
account. But there is no call recording to determine exactly what was said. My findings are 
therefore based on the information that is available and what I consider reasonable based on 
the balance of probabilities. 
When Telford wrote to Ms B the following year it provided her with a copy of the summary of 
cover together with the statement of fact. The quote was for cover for £500,000. Ms B asks 
whether she needs to insure for what the property will be worth when its completed. Telford 
respond by saying, the building needs to be insured for the cost of rebuilding the whole of 
your buildings in a new condition similar in size shape and form. You just need to ensure you 
have enough to rebuild the barn. I think Telford therefore did enough to let Ms B know that 
she needed to make sure the policy covered the full rebuild cost of the barn. So, Im satisfied 
it didnt mis-advise in this respect. I think Telford provided clear information here about the 
costs it wanted to know about so Ms B should have been reasonably clear about what she 
was being asked. It was then down to Ms B to give Telford an accurate answer, for it to pass 
on to the insurer.
Telford also needed to let Ms B know the implications of getting the sum insured wrong. Ive 
thought about whether it did so, in Ms Bs case. And I cant see it did specifically draw her 
attention to the under-insurance condition within the policy. But I think if Telford had made 
Ms B aware of the implications she would still have chosen to insure the property for 
£300,000. I say this because when Ms B brought her complaint to this service she 
maintained the figure was sufficient to rebuild the barn. 
Ms B also said the policy documents didnt sufficiently link the rebuild value to any 
consequences but the statement of fact says the following, if any of the information in the 
proposal form/statement of fact is incorrect please contact us immediately. This is important because failure to advise us could lead to your policy being cancelled, or a claim rejected or 
not fully paid.  
From this I think it would have been clear to Ms B the information given at the point of taking 
out the policy is important and the particular importance of getting the sum insured right. 
Based on this I think Telford provided clear enough information to show what was required
Telford sent the policy documents to Ms B. I would have expected they would be checked to 
ensure the cover and other details were correct. I cant see any evidence Ms B contacted 
Telford to ask for any clarification. And so, I wouldnt have expected Telford to do anything 
more at this stage. 
The policy says, It is important that you ensure all statements you make on proposal forms, 
claim forms, and other documents, are full and accurate. If a form is completed on your 
behalf you should check that the answers shown to any questions are true and accurate 
before signing the document. The documents Telford sent to Ms B made it clear it was 
important the information provided was correct. 
Ms Bs policy explains that if the cost of rebuilding the whole building is more than the sum 
insured for the building the insurer will settle in the same proportion. So if the sum insured 
only covers two-thirds of the cost of rebuilding the property the insurer will only pay two-
thirds of the claim. So, I think the policy documentation sent to Ms B made it clear what 
would happen if she underinsured her policy. 
I know this has been a difficult and stressful time for Ms B. However I think its fair to say 
most upset has been caused to Ms B because her home is not fully insured. This complaint 
is about the sale of the policy and not the insurers decision. And so Im not commenting on 
the outcome of the insurance claim here. 
I accept this leaves Ms B in a very difficult situation. But in the circumstances I cannot fairly 
or unreasonably require Telford to do anything differently. So it follows that I dont intend to 
uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman