DRN-3425784
The complaint
J, a limited company, complains that its broker, Curran Connolly Financial Services, didnt do 
enough to let it know that one of its now late employees (H) had their group life assurance 
benefit set to nil.
What happened
As both parties are familiar with this complaint the following will only be a summary of what 
happened. 
Js group life assurance policy migrated to a new underwriter (Insurer L) in June 2020. 
During that process Insurer L wasnt able to underwrite cover for one of Js employees, H, 
due to missing information about them. So it set Hs benefit to nil. 
J said it only realised Hs cover had been set to nil when its group policy renewed in 2021. H 
had sadly been diagnosed with a terminal illness by then, and although the previously 
missing information about H was provided at that point Insurer L made the underwriting 
decision to decline cover for them. 
H passed away later the same year, without any group life assurance benefit. 
J complained about both Curran Connolly and Insurer L. This decision concerns Js 
complaint against Curran Connolly, which centred on it not having done enough to 
communicate that there was a problem with the late Hs cover.  
Curran Connolly didnt uphold that complaint. It said its role as Js broker had been to pass 
on communications between Insurer L and J, and it was Js responsibility as the policy 
holder to communicate with its employees. Curran Connolly also said the information that 
had been provided to J set out that the late Hs cover was set to nil, and it had no influence 
or control over any coverage decisions made.
J referred its complaint to this service but our investigator didnt uphold it either. They agreed 
that Curran Connolly was responsible for passing documents to J from Insurer L and said it 
had done that. They also said that even though Curran Connolly wasnt responsible for 
communicating with the late H, it couldnt have done so even if it had wanted to and Curran 
Connolly had highlighted that additional information was still required for the late H. 
J disagreed at length and said the bar had been set too low. It wanted a number of specific 
questions about Curran Connolly answered and various information provided about it too. J 
also said that the missing information about the late H would have been provided to Insurer 
L during the policys migration in 2020 had Curran Connolly been clearer in its 
communication at that time, and itd been misled by Curran Connolly into believing 
everything was ok. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
J has asked this service to carry out a number of actions. For example, furnish it with the 
details of a number of Curran Connollys internal policies and procedures, advise it about 
whether Curran Connollys staff were qualified, and provide benchmarks for the wider 
industry. Although I recognise how strongly J feels about this complaint, the way Curran 
Connolly chooses to operate as a business is not something this service can dictate. My role 
here has been to make a decision based on the circumstances of this complaint, and having 
done so Im not persuaded I can fairly uphold it for the following reasons:
Curran Connollys role was to communicate with the policy holder, J, and it did so. I 
wouldnt have expected Curran Connolly to liaise directly with any of Js individual 
employees because J would have been responsible for doing that. And even if 
Curran Connolly had wanted to do so, the late H had specifically requested that 
Insurer L communicate with them directly. So, Curran Connolly wouldnt have been 
included in any of the direct contact between Insurer L and the late H to have then 
communicated or escalated that to J.
Curran Connolly passed on all of the information it received from Insurer L including 
Js policy documentation promptly. I acknowledge that J has concerns about where 
the benefit information about the late H was located within those documents, but it 
would have been inappropriate of Curran Connolly to alter them and Js concerns 
about Insurer L are being considered under separate reference.
When Curran Connolly passed on Js group policy documentation in May and June 
2020, both sets of documents explained the late Hs benefit was restricted. 
I cant fairly agree that Curran Connolly misled J into believing everything was ok with 
its group policy. Although its reasonable to have expected J to review the policy 
documentation being provided to it, when Curran Connolly sent it to J in May 2020 it 
specifically told it that,  (Insurer L) need confirmation on day of renewal (date 
provided) that the at work declaration hasnt changed. They also require further 
details regarding (H). And, when it sent the policy documentation to J again in June 
2020 it also said,  please find the attached group life. Can you please check the 
details are correct. 
I recognise that J thinks Curran Connolly should have done more and have seen the 
letter it provided as an example of what its feels should have been sent, but Im 
satisfied that Curran Connolly sufficiently communicated with J. It provided 
information relating to the migration of Js policy promptly. It highlighted that Insurer L 
needed more information about the late H. It asked J to check the policy 
documentation that had been provided to it (which as I said had noted the late Hs 
benefit as restricted to nil). And it wasnt involved in the direct correspondence 
between Insurer L and the late H either. 
The death of the late H was terribly sad and the above findings are not intended to 
detract from that, but having considered all of the evidence and arguments I cant 
fairly uphold this complaint against Curran Connolly. I am sorry to further disappoint.
My final decision
Your text hereUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman