DRN-1372487
The complaint
Miss G complains that Barclays Bank UK plc opened an ISA without her consent and then 
failed to close it after it had agreed to do so. Miss G also complains that she was subject to 
inappropriate and personal comments while she was in branch.
What happened
Miss G was having problems in opening a new ISA account online and so went to a local 
branch for help. Miss G says she only wanted information and an explanation as to what she 
needed to do to open it herself but that the member of staff went ahead and opened it in 
branch. Although he then agreed to close it straight away, she found out later that this hadnt 
happened. Miss G is upset at what happened and also worried that this may affect her ability 
to open another ISA in the same tax year. Shed like confirmation this isnt the case.
Miss G was concerned about the way the staff member spoke to her. She says he asked her 
a number of improper and inappropriate questions about her personal life and finances, 
including comments on her age and appearance, questions as to whether she was single 
and her preferences for a partner and spoke about his own personal life and relationships. 
She feels his questions were sexist and racist and that he wouldnt have asked these 
questions of any other ethnic group.  She felt concerned that hed wanted this information 
for his own personal use and asked Barclays to confirm he hadnt accessed or used her 
personal information inappropriately. She also asked it to investigate, apologise and 
compensate her for the distress this had caused.
Barclays said says the staff member had gone through the process for opening the ISA with 
Miss G and after shed agreed to it being opened, hed then gone ahead and done so. But 
when it became clear Miss G wouldnt be using the ISA for some time, hed arranged to 
close it. The records showed hed put that in hand on the day but, due to a systems error, 
the request hadnt been processed.  It had now resolved this and said thered be no impact 
on any other ISA she opened that year. However, it could see Miss G had been given some 
incorrect information about the ISA when shed subsequently contacted the branch and it 
offered her £50 compensation for this and for the fact the ISA hadnt been closed on the day 
as intended.
With regard to what had been said at this interview, Barclays said it had spoken to the 
member of staff concerned but having done so, it couldnt agree hed behaved 
inappropriately. It confirmed that thered been no unauthorised access to Miss Gs personal 
details. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said there was no clear evidence as to 
what had been said between Miss G and the staff member at this appointment. However, 
Barclays had confirmed thered been no unauthorised access to Miss Gs account at any 
time after the appointment with Miss G had ended and no evidence he had used her 
information for any personal reasons. In the circumstances, and without some further 
information to show what had been said, she couldnt uphold this part of the complaint. 
While Barclays and Miss G disagreed as to what had happened with regard to the opening 
of the ISA, Barclays agreed it should have been closed on the day. It had apologised and 
offered Miss G £50 compensation for the delay in closing the ISA and for the fact shed been 
given confusing information about this when shed contacted the bank later on. The 
investigator felt this was fair and, for that reason, she wouldnt be asking Barclays to do 
anything more.
Miss G didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it into 
account but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
I should also add that where theres no clear information on any particular point -or the 
information available is incomplete or disputed, as it is here on some issues  then Ive 
made my decision on the balance of probabilities, in other words whats more likely to have 
happened taking into account all the circumstances of this case.
There are two issues to this complaint, which Ill deal with in turn.
The ISA
Ive reviewed carefully the internal notes of this meeting and Miss Gs very detailed 
complaint. While I cant agree the ISA was opened without Miss Gs consent, it is clear that, 
having done so, Miss G felt she hadnt fully understood the terms and conditions for this 
product and that she wasnt sure if shed be putting money into it as required. The staff 
member at that point agreed to close it and took the necessary steps to do so but a systems 
error meant the request didnt go through and the ISA remained open.
Its clear theres been a delay by Barclays in closing down Miss Gs ISA, which Barclays 
accepts. Its also accepted that when Miss G called to follow this up, she wasnt given the 
correct information. That was clearly a mistake and I can understand how frustrating this was 
for Miss G. 
However once Barclays was alerted to the problem by Miss G in July 2019, it arranged to 
close the ISA straight away and did so in a way that didnt affect Miss Gs ability to open 
another one in the same tax year. Its also apologised and offered £50 compensation for the 
confusion. This puts Miss G back in the position she would have been in if the ISA hadnt 
been opened and compensates her for the delay and I think thats reasonable.
Inappropriate questions
Miss G says that while she was in branch talking about the ISA she was asked a number of 
very personal and inappropriate questions about her personal life and circumstances. Shes 
explained clearly how upsetting this was, and why.
Ive given very careful consideration to what Miss G has said.  Ive also reviewed the notes 
of this meeting made at the time as well as the internal investigation notes following Miss Gs complaint that show the specific questions highlighted by Miss G were put to the staff 
member who denied he had said anything inappropriate. 
Its not unusual or inappropriate for a bank to want to know about a customers personal 
circumstances to help it target its advice and many of the questions put to Miss G were 
standard questions for an interview of this type. The question is whether those questions 
went beyond what was reasonable.
We asked Barclays to speak to the staff member and ask him about the allegations Miss G 
made. Barclays responded by saying the staff member didnt remember saying anything he 
deemed inappropriate during their conversation. In addition, Barclays has told us the staff 
member had a good reputation and there had never been any other complaints made about 
him. The records also show that the staff member only accessed Miss Gs account on the 
day and hasnt tried to do so since and theres no information to suggest hes had any other 
contact with Miss G outside of this meeting. 
I note however that the notes made on the day refer to a language barrier that suggests 
there were some problems in communicating between Miss G and the staff member.  If that 
the case, and Ive no reason to doubt those notes, then this may have caused some 
misunderstanding between Miss G and the staff member. 
 
It's clear Miss G felt upset and uncomfortable at what was said and Im not seeking to 
minimise her concerns but, on the information available I cant reasonably say that the staff 
member intended to cause any offence or upset during this meeting.
In summary, I consider that Barclays has dealt with this complaint fairly and its confirmed 
that its offer to Miss G is still open if she wishes to accept it. For that reason, I wont now be 
asking it to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the decision in part but that Im satisfied that the steps put in 
place by Barclays Bank UK Plc are sufficient and I wont be asking it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 November 2020.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman