DRN-3915742
The complaint
Mr H complains Black Horse Limited wont pay for the financial loss suffered, caused by its 
delay in sending him the settlement information he needed to sell his car. 
What happened
Mr H entered a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse in July 2021 for a used car. The 
duration of the agreement was 52 months and was due to end in November 2025.
Whilst at the dealership Mr H contacted Black Horse on 30 July 2022, he asked it to email 
the dealership with an early settlement figure, so it could settle his finance. Which Black 
Horse did, shortly after Mr H called Black Horse back as the dealership wouldnt accept the 
settlement figure because the email didnt contain the full agreement number. Black Horse 
explained that due to security reasons, it couldnt share this information via email but agreed 
to send a letter with the full agreement number by post. 
On 4 August 2022 Mr H got in touch with Black Horse to let it know that the settlement letter 
received didnt contain its bank details, which the dealership also required. Black Horse 
agreed to send another settlement letter with this information on the same day, but this didnt 
happen.
On 9 August 2022 Mr H contacted Black Horse again, because he hadnt received the 
revised letter he was expecting. Black Horse apologised and sent a further settlement letter 
with the full agreement number and bank details, by recorded delivery. Mr H received this 
letter on 11 August 2022.
Mr H complained to Black Horse that because of the delay in getting the information he 
needed for the dealership to settle his finance, his car valuation had depreciated by £476, 
and he also had to incur £101.25 for additional insurance cover until the car was sold. He 
wanted Black Horse to refund his losses. 
Black Horse accepted that it made a mistake when it didnt send a further settlement letter 
on 4 August 2022. It paid Mr H £25 compensation to reflect the inconvenience caused by 
this delay and covered Mr Hs additional insurance costs. However, it didnt think it was 
responsible for the car depreciating in value by £476.
Unable to resolve this with Black Horse, Mr H brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator said that car valuations can fluctuate due to several reasons, so she didnt think 
Black Horse had to do anything further.
Mr H disagreed; the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
And our rules allow me to do this. This reflects the nature of our service as a free and 
informal alternative to the courts.
Mr H acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service can look into complaints about it.
 
Mr H says he requested all the information the dealership needed during his telephone call 
with Black Horse on 30 July 2022, but he didnt receive a letter containing everything 
requested until its third attempt on 11 August 2022. Mr H has told us how stressful this was 
as he was worried the valuation might not have cover the settlement figure. 
Black Horse explained that in line with its security policy it couldnt provide a settlement 
figure with the full agreement number via email. It offered to send a letter by post with the 
required information and I can see that it did this within its five working day timescale. Black 
Horse sent us the recordings of the calls on 20 July 2022, but Mr H didnt advise that the 
dealership also required the bank details to be contained in the settlement letter. So, I dont 
think Black Horse made an error here. I can see Mr H did request that Black Horse include 
the full agreement number and bank details in a settlement letter on 4 August 2022, Black 
Horse made a mistake when it didnt send this letter to Mr H.
I can see Black Horse sent Mr H a settlement letter with all the information the dealership 
wanted on 9 August 2022, which he received on 11 August 2022, one day outside its five 
working day timescale, from Mr Hs request on 4 August 2022. Black Horse has already paid 
Mr H £25 compensation to reflect this delay and covered the additional £101.25 cost of 
insuring the car between 3 August and 14 August 2022, which I think is more than 
reasonable. 
   
Mr H received an email valuation for his car on 8 June 2022 for £7,783 and on 9 August 
2022 for £7,364. Mr H says he got another quote for £7,840 in July 2022, but he has been 
unable get evidence of this from the dealership. And I note the valuation quotes dont say 
how long the quotes were guaranteed for. 
In order for me to instruct Black Horse to pay Mr H the £476 loss in value claimed, Id need 
to be satisfied that Black Horses delay was the sole reason for the loss in value. However, 
Im not persuaded that this is the case, that is because used cars values are highly variable, 
and can change daily. Valuations are not only impacted by the condition of the car, mileage, 
and things like service history, but are also affected by external factors, such as wider 
market trends and the demand for used cars. In the circumstances, Im not satisfied that 
Black Horses delay in sending the settlement letter with all the information requested, is the 
direct cause of the loss in Mr Hs car valuation. 
I know Mr H will be disappointed by my decision, but for the reasons explained above, I will 
not be asking Black Horse to compensate Mr H any further. 
More recently Mr H was unhappy that Black Horse hadnt responded to his subject access 
request. I understand that the information requested has now been provided and as this 
wasnt part of this complaint, Ive not considered this further. If Mr H hasnt already, he may 
wish to raise this separately with Black Horse.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman