DRN-3555001
The complaint
Mr B complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) declined a claim under his 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B had a motor insurance policy with Calpe when he was involved in an accident with a 
third party in December 2020. Both Mr Bs car and the third partys car were written off and 
fault was admitted by Calpe on Mr Bs behalf.
The accident happened when Mr B had left a car park near his place of work and was driving 
to some shops before going home. Calpe declined his claim because it said that Mr B wasnt 
covered by his policy. It said hed bought a policy covering him for social only use, and 
because he was commuting on this journey, he wasnt covered. 
Calpe wouldnt deal with the claim, apart from doing what it was required to do by road traffic 
legislation. It said that it had adopted Article 75 Insurer status and that it didnt have to 
meet the claim.
Mr B complained to Calpe as he thought it should deal with the claim. He said his journey to 
the shops was for social reasons so it shouldnt be considered commuting. Mr Bs job 
involves him working away from home sometimes for extended periods. Hed parked his car 
in a public carpark, rather than a work one, and was on his way to buy a gift. Calpe 
continued to decline Mr Bs claim because it said that he had driven from his workplace and 
his journey was continuing home.
As Mr B remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into his case and said he thought Calpe had acted fairly in declining Mr Bs claim. Mr B had 
bought cover for social only use and had suffered a loss while travelling from work. So our 
investigator thought there was no cover under the policy, and that Calpe had acted correctly.
As Mr B didnt agree with the view, his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. 
This is set out below:
The accident happened when Mr B was on part of a journey home from his place of work, so 
Calpe said that Mr B had breached the terms and conditions of his policy and that it was 
entitled to decline the claim. Its clear to me that Mr B had chosen the wrong option, so his 
policy didnt cover commuting and that he didnt have adequate cover in place for his journey 
home. Calpe has agreed that it considered Mr Bs journey to be a commute.
But its for me to consider whether Calpe declined the claim on a fair and reasonable basis. I 
dont consider that it did for the reasons which follow.
Calpe hasnt said whether it considered Mr B to have made a misrepresentation about the 
type of use of his car. It didnt appear to have addressed the claim in this way. It considered 
that it was entitled to rely on its rights as Article 75 insurers.
The Financial Ombudsman Services approach is that Article 75 of the Motor Insurance 
Bureau Articles of Association can apply automatically if the use of the vehicle is other than 
that permitted under the policy, as in this case. Article 75 has to be interpreted in accordance 
with the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) 
provisions however, and the Act therefore trumps Article 75 in these circumstances.
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a 
reasonable consumer. If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies 
provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying 
misrepresentation.
Firstly, I have to decide if there has been a misrepresentation and this is judged by looking at 
the question asked of a policyholder and considering what a reasonable response would be. 
The question asked of Mr B was What do you use the car for?. It had buttons with choices 
which included Social only and Social & commuting and there was additional clarification 
of these points available to Mr B. Calpe said that Mr B selected Social only which it further 
clarifies as normal day-to-day driving, but not driving to or from a place of work.
It appears clear to me that Mr B misrepresented the use of his car in omitting to obtain 
commuting use. So I am satisfied that he has misrepresented his circumstances. 
For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the 
policy on different terms, including the price, or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation.
When I examine the evidence supplied I can see that Calpe say it would have provided 
cover for Mr Bs commuting for a small additional premium of £36.63, so I am persuaded that 
Mr B did make a qualifying misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. It is for the insurer 
to show that a policyholder has caused a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation.
Mr B has told this service that he thought his use was social as he would park away from his 
place of work, in public car parks and often at places like hotels. He hasnt tried to hide the 
fact that he was commuting. Calpe havent provided any evidence to say whether it thinks Mr 
Bs actions were deliberate or reckless, so it follows that I think Mr B made a genuine but 
careless mistake when he selected the button saying Social only use.
CIDRA says that if the insurer would still have sold the policy but would have charged a 
higher premium, it may reduce proportionately the amount paid on a claim. I can see from 
the evidence I have that the proportion of the correct premium Mr B had paid was 98.35%. 
So it follows that I think Mr B should be covered for this proportion of settlement of the claim 
and that Calpe should deal with it subject to the rest of the terms and conditions of its policy. 
I understand that Mr B has already paid out for some parts of his claim, such as vehicle 
storage. Calpe should also refund Mr B the proportionate parts of payments hes already 
made that Calpe would normally pay for in a claim like this.
Its also important that I say even if I didnt think Mr B had made a mistake in selecting the 
correct type of use and applied CIDRA, then I dont think Calpes position in rejecting Mr Bs claim would be fair and reasonable either given that the additional premium for commuting is 
so small compared to the price Mr B was already paying for cover.
Mr B has also explained how distressed he feels by Calpes handling of his claim which he 
says has been affecting his health. Its clear to me that Calpe should have looked at Mr Bs 
claim more sympathetically than it did, and more in line with this services approach to 
CIDRA, so I think its fair that it pays Mr B £100 compensation for its poor service.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr B said he agreed with my provisional decision. Calpe said it agreed with the majority of it. 
But Calpe also said it thought Mr B lied about the accident circumstances and provided 
inconsistent versions of events. Calpe disputed that Mr B was treated unfairly and didnt 
accept my decision that it needed to pay him £100 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered Calpes response to my provisional decision. 
I think its clear from it that Calpe didnt handle Mr Bs claim in line with this services 
approach to CIDRA. Calpes acceptance of the rest of my decision is, I think, a statement 
that Calpe understands it should have handled Mr Bs claim differently. 
By failing to do this, Calpe have caused distress and inconvenience to Mr B, so its my 
decision that Calpe should pay the £100 compensation.
In regard to Calpes other point about Mr B being inconsistent and lying, where an insurer 
makes an accusation like this about its policyholder I think it needs to base that accusation 
on robust evidence. I say this because it is a serious accusation to make and can have 
consequences that reach beyond the claim itself. 
If Calpe had robust evidence that Mr B had committed fraud then it should have acted 
differently during its claim process rather than at this stage of its complaints procedure, 
some 18 months after the incident occurred. 
Because Mr B accepted my provisional decision, and because Calpe hasnt provided further 
evidence to change my thinking, my final decision and reasoning remains the same as in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Calpe Insurance Company Limited to
Deal with Mr Bs own car damage on a proportionate basis as if Mr B had been 
covered for commuting under his policy.
Deal with the third-party claim on a proportionate basis as if Mr B had been covered 
for commuting under his policy.
Pay Mr B £100 compensation in total for his distress and inconvenience caused by 
Calpes handling of his claim.Add interest, at the annual rate of 8% simple*, to any amounts already paid by Mr B 
on proof of payment, calculated from the date of Mr Bs payment to the date of 
settlement.
*If Calpe considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman