DRN-3124594
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that TSB Bank PLC (TSB) blocked and closed his account, after receiving a 
fraud report relating to funds that had entered his account. He says he cant open an 
account elsewhere and he wants TSB to fix that.
What happened
In August 2019, a payment of £3,320 entered Mr Cs account. Mr C then made a few small 
payments from his account before attempting to make a large payment out to an electronic 
money institution. When he did so, TSB blocked his account. It said it suspected the credit 
into Mr Cs account was fraudulent and asked him to attend his local branch to provide 
identification and submit proof of entitlement to the funds.
Mr C said the funds were from his cousin in Nigeria and attended branch to show his 
identification documents, and submit proof of entitlement. TSB didnt accept that the 
evidence Mr C provided demonstrated he was entitled to the funds. Mr C couldnt provide 
any further evidence, so TSB returned the remaining funds (£3,020.28) to the remitting bank. 
It allowed Mr C to withdraw his benefits from the account, but otherwise kept the account 
blocked.
TSB then told Mr C it would be closing his account. It says it gave him two months notice to 
make other banking arrangements.
Mr C complained. He said the payments were legitimate and that he was trying to send 
money to his wife, although he told TSB he wasnt actually married. He said he couldnt open 
an account elsewhere since TSB had closed his account.
On 9 July 2020, TSB issued its final response to Mr Cs complaint. It said it had concerns 
about the payment that had been received into Mr Cs account, and explained its obliged to 
establish the nature of its customers business, and the origin of funds in their accounts, in 
order to comply with anti-money laundering regulations.
It said it had received an allegation of fraud from the bank that had sent Mr C the payment, 
and that it wasnt satisfied with the evidence Mr C had provided to demonstrate he was 
entitled to the funds.
It said it had an obligation to report our customers data accurately to the Credit Industry 
Fraud Avoidance System (CIFAS). And recommended Mr C should contact CIFAS if he was 
experiencing issues opening accounts elsewhere.
Mr C remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint. She said TSB had acted fairly when it blocked and closed Mr Cs 
account, and that it had given him the opportunity to prove the funds werent fraudulent.
Mr C didnt agree. He insisted there was no fraud and said he just wanted to be able to open 
a bank account. Our investigator didnt change her opinion, so Mr C asked for an 
ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block
The banking industry is heavily regulated and all banks in the UK have various legal and 
regulatory obligations, with which they have to comply. As part of these obligations, 
sometimes banks have to block accounts while they carry out a review and gather certain 
documents or information. 
Having looked at all of the evidence, Im satisfied TSB was entitled to block Mr Cs account 
while it carried out an investigation. And that it was complying with its legal and regulatory 
obligations when it did so. TSB explained the reason it blocked Mr Cs account and gave him 
the opportunity to prove he was entitled to the funds that were reported as fraudulent. Ive 
seen the evidence Mr C submitted and Im satisfied TSB acted reasonably in rejecting the 
same. Because Mr C couldnt prove he was entitled to the funds, it follows that TSB was 
entitled to maintain the account block and returning the funds to source. So, I cant 
reasonably say it did anything wrong.
Account closure
Just as a customer may close an account with a bank, a bank is entitled to close an account 
with a customer. But when it closes the account, it must do so in a way which complies with 
the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms of Mr Cs account, with which both TSB and Mr C had to comply, say that TSB 
can close Mr Cs account at any time as long as it gives at least two months notice. Or 
immediately in certain circumstances. TSB says it didnt issue a letter confirming the account 
closure, so I cant see how much notice it gave Mr C. However, having reviewed the 
information it relied on to close Mr Cs account, Im satisfied TSB was entitled to close Mr Cs 
account immediately and therefore that it closed Mr Cs account in accordance with the 
account terms and conditions.
TSB has told Mr C what he can do if he is having difficulty opening an account elsewhere, 
and Im satisfied it has given him a reasonable explanation in that regard.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman