DRN-3276343
The complaint
Mr and Mrs As complaint is about RAC Insurance Limiteds handling of a key replacement 
claim they made under their Roadside Assistance Insurance Policy.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Having considered everything, Im not persuaded that I have jurisdiction to comment 
on RACs actions involving the tow vehicle as it involves the performance of the 
contract which is excluded under the Regulated Activities Order. But even if Im 
wrong, I dont think that this is relevant to the outcome of the complaint, as all thats 
left for me to consider here is the impact of RACs actions to Mr and Mrs A during 
their claim under the key cover section of their policy:
As part of their key replacement claim, RAC has said Mr and Mrs A were entitled to 
£150 worth of cover for onward travel. Due to their distance from home, RAC agreed 
to increase this to £300 as a gesture of goodwill. RAC also offered a further gesture 
of goodwill to tow their vehicle which cost around £250. So RAC feels that the £400 it 
has paid above Mr and Mrs As policy entitlement is sufficient and didnt agree with 
our investigators recommendation of a further £100 for distress and inconvenience. 
Whilst I acknowledge that RAC has made payments outside of the policy terms here, 
I dont think it has considered the impact of its actions on Mr and Mrs A in terms of 
distress and inconvenience in line with our general approach. And Im not persuaded 
by RACs argument that the distance Mr and Mrs A travelled from home was the 
reason they experienced additional detriment.
I say this because Mr and Mrs A made their claim before midday on the day in 
question. And the evidence shows that arrangements for Mr and Mrs As onward 
travel werent discussed or agreed internally until approximately 8 hours after the 
initial call. So, Mr and Mrs A were left waiting in cold weather and incurred additional 
costs in buying food and drink from a pub 2 miles away. And whilst I dont think RAC 
needs to compensate them directly for these costs, its clear Mr and Mrs A incurred 
some additional distress and inconvenience as a result. Ultimately, due to this delay 
they were left to make their own arrangements and couldnt get a taxi for a further 2 
hours. So, I find our investigators recommendation of £100 reasonable in the 
circumstances for this distress and inconvenience.
I can see RAC has attempted to pay the £300 towards the taxi costs to                     
Mr and Mrs A, but they wanted to wait until a final decision was issued. So, for 
avoidance of doubt I will include this amount in my award as it hasnt been paid yet.
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint is upheld. In order to resolve Mr and Mrs As 
complaint, RAC Insurance Limited should:
Reimburse Mr and Mrs A £300 toward the costs of their taxi fees.
Pay Mr and Mrs A £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman