DRN-4116305
Complaint
Mr C has complained about a loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) 
provided to him. He says he was declined for a loan by his own bank and needed money to 
consolidate his existing debts.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Mr C with a loan for £5,000.00 in February 2019. This loan had an 
APR of 58.4% and was due to be repaid in 48 monthly instalments of £232.30. £4,517.82 of 
the proceeds from this loan were used to directly settle outstanding credit card balances       
Mr C had with other providers.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr C and Everyday Loans had told us. And she 
thought that Everyday Loans hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr C unfairly. So she 
didnt recommend that Mr Cs complaint be upheld. Mr C disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr C complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr C could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Everyday Loans says it agreed to Mr Cs application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and copies of bank statements and payslips 
which Mr C was asked to provide. In its view, all of this information showed Mr C could to 
comfortably make the repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr C has said he was in financial difficulty and couldnt afford this loan.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr C and Everyday Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Mr C was asked to provide copies of bank statements and 
payslips. So it wasnt simply a case of Everyday Loans just accepting what Mr C said at face 
value here. Everyday Loans credit searches also appeared to show that Mr Cs existing 
debts appeared to be relatively well managed. 
Mr C has referred to being in mortgage arrears the month prior to this loan. However, this 
didnt show up in the information Everyday Loans had. And while this might now show on   
Mr Cs credit file, I think it may well have taken some time for this information to have 
updated with credit reference agencies when this happened. So I dont think that there is 
anything untoward in the fact that Everyday Loans credit checks didnt show a missed 
mortgage payment.
Equally, having reviewed the bank statements obtained, I cant see anything on them which 
indicated Mr C wouldnt be able to make the repayments. The income going into Mr Cs 
account broadly matched his declaration, when additional payments going into the account 
were included, and there wasnt anything to suggest the expenditure calculation was 
incorrect either.  
Furthermore, the vast majority of the proceeds of this loan were used to clear the balances 
with two of Mr Cs existing creditors. Everyday Loans also appears to have ensured that the 
earmarked funds could only be used to repay Mr Cs existing creditors by issuing cheques to 
the providers, rather than funds to Mr C. 
So Im satisfied that it took reasonable steps here to ensure that it wasnt increasing Mr Cs 
existing indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful, as well as 
taking reasonable steps to ensure Mr C was able to make the monthly repayments.   
I accept that Mr C says he experienced difficulty making the payments. And the reason why 
might have been because he did go on to re-establish further balances once the outstanding 
ones were cleared. Im also very sorry to learn that Mr C went on to fall ill after having taken 
out this loan. 
But Everyday Loans could only make a reasonable decision based on the information it had 
available at the time. It wont have known Mr Cs circumstances might change  all it could 
do was take reasonable steps to ensure the balances would be repaid, which it did by 
issuing cheques, it couldnt prevent Mr C accruing other debts elsewhere with other 
providers.
As this is the case, I dont think that Everyday Loans did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend to Mr C - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable and it took steps to mitigate the possibility 
of Mr Cs indebtedness increasing unsustainably. 
So overall I dont think that Everyday Loans treated Mr C unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr C. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman