DRN-1972927
The complaint
Mrs L and Mr T are unhappy with how Santander UK Plc handled an application they made 
for a mortgage. 
What happened
In August 2018 Mrs L and Mr T applied for a mortgage with Santander. Mr T already had an 
existing mortgage with Santander at that time. The new application included moving the 
existing borrowing to a new property, adding Mrs L to the mortgage and borrowing additional 
funds.
Santander informed Mrs L and Mr T in September 2018 that the maximum amount it would 
be willing to lend was lower than theyd requested. This was based on a review of the 
information submitted as part of the application.
This decision was appealed. In October 2018, Santander confirmed it could not lend the full 
amount requested. In fact, the amount it was willing to lend had marginally reduced again 
after further information was considered.
Mrs L and Mr T asked Santander if the application could be amended to reflect them using a 
help to buy scheme to cover the shortfall in the amount Santander was willing to provide. But 
Santander said it could not change the existing application and a new one would be 
required. It also said that any application involving help to buy would need to be made 
through a broker.
Mrs L and Mr T took out a mortgage with a different business via a broker. They said they 
did this as the broker told them that, while they could apply to Santander for them, based on 
their experience they felt Santander might not provide a mortgage in time to meet the 
deadline set by the seller of Mrs L and Mr Ts new property. So, they recommended going 
with a different lender. When taking the mortgage Mrs L and Mr T repaid Mr Ts existing 
Santander mortgage in full, incurring an early repayment charge (ERC).
Mrs L and Mr T complained to Santander about its handling of the application. They were 
unhappy that Santander had not requested certain information sooner. And they felt if it had, 
it couldve informed them earlier that it would not be able to provide the mortgage they had 
requested. They said if theyd known this sooner, theyd have made a help to buy application 
via a broker to Santander earlier  and potentially have avoided paying an ERC. So, they felt 
Santander should waive the ERC.
Santander acknowledged that there had been a short delay in requesting some of the 
information it had ultimately based its final lending decision on. And it offered Mrs L and Mr T 
£150 for the upset caused by this. It didnt however agree that it should waive the ERC as 
this had been charged correctly and its lending decision was correct.
Unhappy with this response, Mrs L and Mr T asked our service to investigate their complaint. 
They added that in addition to the ERC they felt Santanders actions had caused them to 
have to sell their previous property for a lower amount than they otherwise would have, in 
order to meet the deadline imposed by the seller of the property they were purchasing.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. Overall, she felt Santander had acted 
fairly. She felt Santander was entitled to decide what level of lending it was willing to provide 
so hadnt made an error when considering the application. And she felt the ERC had been 
charged correctly and it was ultimately Mrs L and Mr Ts decision to take a mortgage 
elsewhere. So, she didnt think Santander needed to waive the ERC. She also didnt think 
Santander could reasonably be held responsible for any unhappiness Mrs L and Mr T had 
with the price theyd independently agreed when selling their existing property. And she 
couldnt agree that anything Santander had done had caused them to receive less money for 
that property, so didnt think it needed to cover any price difference. 
She agreed there had been a slight delay by Santander when looking at the mortgage 
application  as some information could have been requested earlier. But she felt this hadnt 
delayed things significantly, and overall, she thought the time taken to consider the 
application was still reasonable. So, with that in mind, she said she thought the offer made 
by Santander was fair.
Mrs L and Mr T did not agree with the investigators findings as they didnt think Santander 
had taken reasonable care and had failed them as customers. As Mrs L and Mr T did not 
agree with the investigators opinion the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs L and Mr T have explained that they needed a mortgage to be provided within a set 
timescale as they were relocating, due to a change of employment, and had agreed set 
dates with the seller of their new home. So, they applied to Santander, as Mr T already had 
a mortgage with it, in anticipation of this being quicker. While I appreciate Mrs L and Mr T 
wanted the application process to conclude as quickly as possible, the effective deadline for 
this wasnt set by Santander. It, and any associated penalties, were outside of Santanders 
control  and had been agreed independently between Mrs L and Mr T and the seller. So, I 
dont think Santander was required to act outside of its usual processes to meet that 
deadline. 
Mrs L and Mr T have said that they initially applied online, and Santander indicated it was 
willing to lend them the amount they required. Santanders notes indicate it provided Mrs L 
and Mr T an agreement in principle in August 2018. 
Agreements, or decisions, in principle are a common step in a mortgage application process. 
But they are not a binding offer of a loan. They represent an initial indication of what a lender 
may be willing to provide  subject to a full application being considered. So, I dont think 
Santander gave a binding commitment to provide the mortgage being requested.
Ive seen information to show that Mrs L and Mr T were made aware in mid-September 2018 
that Santander wasnt willing to lend the full amount being requested, based on the 
information currently available to it. I dont think that was an unreasonable time frame for 
Santander to have made an initial assessment of the mortgage application.Mrs L and Mr T provided additional information to Santander about their income, in order to 
appeal the initial decision. I can see that queries were raised about the evidence provided 
and further information was requested by Santander before it made a further decision. But I 
dont think this is unreasonable. Santander was not obliged to lend and was within its rights 
to make reasonable enquiries before deciding whether to do so, which I think it did here. I 
can see that it then confirmed it wouldnt be able to provide the full amount requested in 
October 2018.
Overall this appeals process took under four weeks. I dont think that is an unreasonable 
amount of time. Mortgage applications and lending decisions often take time  given the 
significance of the transactions and the amount involved. And I dont think the amount of 
time this application took was unusually long.
Santander acknowledges though that some of the information it asked for couldve been 
requested earlier. And that this caused some delays in the final lending decision being 
explained to Mrs L and Mr T. In particular I can see that a payslip wasnt requested until 
quite late in the application process. And if it had been, Santander has said it couldve 
provided its response to the appeal approximately two weeks earlier than it did. So, while I 
dont think the time taken to assess the application was unreasonable, it appears that 
Santander couldve provided a better service to Mrs L and Mr T. 
I dont think these delays mean the lending decision itself was incorrect. And I am conscious 
that while the appeal response was delayed, Santander had already indicated in September 
2018 that it wasnt able to provide the level of borrowing Mrs L and Mr T needed, before they 
chose to appeal. But as there isnt a dispute that the service provided couldve been better, 
Ive thought about what the fair way to address this is.
Mrs L and Mr T say that Santander should waive the ERC from Mr Ts existing mortgage due 
to these delays. But I dont think I can reasonably say the delays caused the ERC to be 
incurred, or that it wouldnt otherwise have been incurred if the delays didnt happen.
As Ive said, I havent seen anything to suggest that the lending decision was incorrect. And 
this lending decision was that Santander could not provide the level of borrowing Mrs L and 
Mr T required. So, Mrs L and Mr T would not have been able to complete the transaction 
under this application.
Theyve said, if theyd been told this earlier, they couldve applied to Santander via a broker 
for a mortgage using help to buy  and if that application had been successful the ERC 
couldve been avoided. 
But I havent seen anything to show that Santander wouldve approved a further application 
on the revised terms mentioned. Although Mrs L and Mr T have made a successful 
application to another lender, lenders have different criteria under which they are willing to 
provide mortgages. And this application being successful, doesnt mean that Santander 
would necessarily have approved a similar application. So, I cant say that the ERC wouldnt 
have still been incurred.
And the ERC has been applied in line with the terms of Mr Ts existing mortgage  as it was 
repaid early. I appreciate that Mrs L and Mr T said they applied elsewhere after speaking to 
their broker  to meet the deadline theyd agreed with the seller of their new property. But I 
dont think Santander was responsible for that decision or the deadline theyve referred to. 
So as the ERC was charged correctly, and Mrs L and Mr T were aware it would be incurred 
when they chose to apply for a mortgage elsewhere, I cant reasonably ask Santander to 
refund it. And I also dont think it is reasonable to ask Santander to pay anything in relation to the price 
Mrs L and Mr T achieved for their existing property. This was something they agreed 
independently. And I dont agree that Santander was in any way responsible for this.
Taking everything into account, while the service provided by Santander couldve been 
better, I think the £150 offered by Santander for the upset caused by this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. So, I dont think it needs to do more.
 My final decision
Santander UK Plc has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint which I 
think is a fair way to resolve matters.
So, my decision is that, if it hasnt already done so, Santander UK Plc should pay Mrs L and 
Mr T the £150 it previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman