DRN-3630995
The complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) refused to refund money he 
lost to an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr C authorised the disputed payments he made to the 
cryptocurrency exchange platforms using his Nationwide debit card (where his funds 
were subsequently transferred on to the scammers from those platforms). The payments 
were requested by him using his legitimate security credentials provided by Nationwide, 
and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their 
customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Nationwide should have done more to prevent Mr C 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character.
Having reviewed the first two payments made by Mr C, I dont think these were enough 
in themselves to have warranted an intervention by Nationwide, as they were not so 
unusual as to amount to a significant deviation in the way the account was normally run. 
However, by the time he came to make the payment of £5,050 on 18 March 2021, it then 
became the second large payment to be made to the same payee on the same day 
(amounting to almost £10,000 in total). Successive payments of large amounts can often 
be indicative of fraudulent activity, so I think Nationwide ought to have intervened in the 
payment of £5,050 made by Mr C. 
However, even if Nationwide had intervened at this point and asked further questions 
about the nature of the payments Mr C was making, Im not persuaded it would have 
likely stopped him from proceeding or have ultimately prevented his loss. 
Mr C said he had already carried out research on the merchant Trade 360, and that he 
had seen many positive reviews about them on Trust Pilot. He said this reassured him 
that it was a genuine investment brokerage that was based in Cyprus. The scammer 
showed Mr C evidence of his own supposed trades and profits, and he was able to log 
into his own account whenever he wanted, which made him believe he had control over 
his investments. He also had to provide a copy of his passport which he said further led 
him to believe that it was a legitimate operation. 
I appreciate than an FCA warning has since been issued about Trade 360. But this had 
not been published until 8 June 2021, which was after Mr C had already made the 
payments. So, as well as believing the merchant was genuine for the reasons set out 
above, he also wouldnt have found any warnings about them if the bank had warned 
him and advised that he carry out further checks. 
So, even if Nationwide had intervened and provided Mr C with a scam warning, Im not 
persuaded that any further checks he could have carried out would have revealed that 
he was likely being scammed. Mr C has said himself that there was very little negative 
information about the merchant online when he was conducting his research. So, there 
wouldnt have been anything significant to alert him to the fact that he was being 
scammed at the time. Therefore, I dont think Nationwides failure to intervene can 
reasonably be considered as the proximate cause of Mr Cs loss in these circumstances, 
as it seems likely he would have proceeded to make the transactions irrespective of any 
intervention by the bank.
Ive also thought about whether Nationwide could have done more to recover the funds 
after Mr C reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered via 
the bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, in these circumstances, Mr C used his 
debit card to pay legitimate crypto-exchange platforms before the funds were 
subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So, he wouldnt be able to make a 
successful chargeback claim in these circumstances because the company he paid had 
provided the services as intended (i.e. the purchase of cryptocurrency). Therefore, I do 
not think Nationwide were under any obligation to raise a chargeback for Mr C either.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr C, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold Nationwide liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman