DRN-4296816
The complaint
Mr P complains about a defective car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement 
financed by Toyota Financial Services (UK) PLC (TFS).
What happened
In June 2021 Mr P entered into a regulated hire purchase agreement with TFS for a used 
car. The car was over seven years old and the mileage was 57,589 miles. In August of that 
year the engine management light (EML) came on, and so Mr P took the car back to the 
dealer to be investigated and repaired. But unfortunately this happened multiple times. The 
EML came back on again, and the car was taken back to the dealer, four more times: in 
October and December 2021, and in February and March 2022.
Finally, in May 2022 the engine seized up and the car could no longer be driven. The dealer 
told Mr P that the engine would need to be replaced. Mr P complained to TFS.
TFS accepted that the engine needed to be replaced, but it did not accept that this was due 
to a fault that had been present at the point of sale. As a gesture of good will, it refunded two 
of Mr Ps monthly payments, to cover the time he had been without his car. But it did not 
agree that it was liable to pay for a new engine. It pointed out that the car had passed its 
MOT in June 2021 (when he acquired the car) and again in April 2022 (ten months later).
Mr P brought this complaint to our service. At first our investigator did not uphold it, because 
there are many reasons why an EML can come on, and there was no evidence to show that 
the reason it had come on the first time had anything to do with the engine seizing up nearly 
a year later. But following that opinion, Mr P instructed an independent expert to inspect the 
car and write a report about his findings. That report found that the original and subsequent 
EML illuminations and the engine seizure were all related and were the result of the same 
cause. The investigator shared that report with TFS, who asked the dealer to comment. The 
dealers response did not address or contradict the findings in the report. So based on that 
new evidence, the investigator changed her mind and upheld Mr Ps complaint. She 
recommended that the hire purchase agreement be ended with nothing more to pay, that 
Mr P be allowed to reject the car at no cost to him, that his deposit and all of the monthly 
payments since the engine seized up be refunded to him, that the cost of the inspection be 
refunded, and that interest be paid on these refunds at 8% a year. She also recommended 
that any adverse information about the agreement be removed from Mr Ps credit file.
Because TFS did not respond to that revised view, the investigator referred this complaint to 
me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided to uphold this complaint, for the same reasons as my 
colleague.
The independent report is credible and I have no reason to doubt what it says. Its 
conclusions have not been challenged, and so I accept it. It confirms that the engine has 
seized, and says that repairing it may not be economical. It says that the cause of this fault 
was likely to have been present at the point of sale, and was likely to have been the cause of 
each of the EML illuminations. The mileage was 64,250 miles, or 6,661 miles since the point 
of sale (11 months before the engine seized). So I am satisfied that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale, notwithstanding that it passed an MOT test at the 
time.
The report also sets out a number of instances in which makeshift repairs appear to have 
been made to the car. It isnt clear when these were made or who made them, but I dont 
think I need to make a finding about that. Its enough to say that the dealer tried to fix the 
fault five times, and has failed to do so. So I think that rejecting the car and ending the 
agreement is a fair way to resolve this complaint.
Putting things right
I think that fair redress in this case would be for TFS to put things right in the following way. 
TFS must:
End the hire purchase agreement with nothing further to pay, and collect the car at 
no cost to Mr P;
Refund his deposit (£99) and part exchange (£700);
Refund all the monthly payments made since May 2022;
If Mr P provides TFS with an invoice for the independent report, refund the cost of 
that report;
Pay simple interest on all of these refunds at the rate of eight per cent a year from 
the dates of each payment to the date of settlement;
Arrange to remove any adverse data concerning the agreement from Mr Ps credit 
file.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Toyota Financial Services (UK) PLC to put 
things right in the way I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman