DRN-3709658
The complaint
Mrs M complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) caused damage to her property, 
and to the one below, when their plumber attended on a callout under her home emergency 
policy. 
What happened
Mrs M had a home emergency policy with BG for a tenanted flat. The policy provided gas 
safety certification, plumbing and drains cover, and home electrical cover. 
In late November 2021 Mrs Ms tenant had a leak. Mrs M said it was a small trickle from the 
back of the toilet. So BG were called. Mrs Ms tenant said that the plumber started work on 
the leak before he could turn off the water. And that this caused a flood that damaged both 
Mrs Ms flat and the flat below. 
Mrs M offered to pay for the repairs to the flat below her own property. Her own tenanted flat 
also needed repairs after the leak. She said the total cost of repairs for both flats was 
£2,612. She asked BG to pay for the cost of the repairs to both flats, as she felt their 
plumber was responsible for the damage. She complained to BG in December 2021.
Mrs M said she didnt hear from BG until March 2022. BG didnt feel that their plumber had 
been responsible for the damage. Mrs M emailed BG on 25 March 2022 to tell them exactly 
what had happened. She said the agent for the rented flat below hers could corroborate her 
version of events. She totally disagreed that BGs plumber hadnt caused the flood.
BG issued their final response to the complaint in April 2022. They said their plumber didnt 
cause the flood. They said that the callout had been logged as an uncontainable water 
leak. BG also said that their plumber had provided evidence that the flood had happened 
before he arrived. They acknowledged that Mrs M believed her tenants version of events 
rather than their plumbers. But said that although shed been asked for evidence to support 
her tenants testimony, shed told them there wasnt any. BG said that without evidence to 
support Mrs Ms tenants claims, they couldnt accept liability for the property damage. BG 
said theyd internally reviewed the complaint and had come to the same conclusion. 
BG said that Mrs M could refer the property damage to her home insurer. And that if her 
insurer felt that she had enough evidence to lodge a counterclaim, they could contact their 
Claims Management Unit.
Unhappy with BGs response, Mrs M brought her complaint to this service. She said that as 
well as the costs incurred for repairs, shed also been upset and inconvenienced by BGs 
response. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He acknowledged that what had 
happened had caused Mrs M distress. But didnt feel it would be fair to hold BG responsible. 
Mrs M didnt agree with our investigator. She made the following points:
BGs plumber had caused misery to the occupants of the flat below, as well as to her 
tenants and her. And theyd done nothing to help.
She provided an email from her tenant explaining what he felt had happened. 
She also said that the agent for the flat below hers was happy to explain what had 
happened. She felt it was morally and financially wrong for BG not to admit liability, 
and to blame others for their own incompetence.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that theres no 
evidence, other than Mrs Ms tenants testimony, that BGs plumber caused the flood. And 
Ive seen evidence that the flood was already present before the plumber started to work on 
the leak. I appreciate that Mrs M will be disappointed with my decision so Ill explain how I 
reached it. 
Mrs M feels that the November 2021 plumbers visit led to the flood, which caused damage 
to both her own property and the flat below. She said that if BGs plumber had waited for the 
water to be turned off before he started work, the flood wouldnt have happened. She also 
said that BG had lied about whatd happened.
BG have provided evidence from their plumber that the flood had already happened before 
their plumber started to fix the leak. 
Ive carefully considered what both parties have told this service. I consider that its more 
likely than not that the flood had already happened before the plumber attended. I say this 
because other than Mrs Ms tenants testimony that the plumber had caused the flood, Ive 
no evidence that he did. I do, however, have several pieces of evidence that the flood had 
already happened before the plumbers visit. These are:
The fact that the original callout was logged as an uncontainable water leak.
The evidence supplied by the plumber, including photographs which show that the 
bathroom floor was already flooded before his work began.
The plumbers report which said: Walked into property which was flooded.
Mrs Ms tenants comment, in an email to her dated 4 December 2021, that: The 
floor underneath the [bathroom] tiles was all spongy whenever stepped on and water 
was popping up. We identified no visible leak source. The plumber identified the 
source as a rotten pipe behind the toilet. 
A photo taken by the plumber showing that he had to use his wet-vac to collect water 
that was flowing onto the floor before he started work. And a further photo showing 
that the broken pipe which had caused the leak had already disconnected before the 
plumber attempted to carry out any repairs.
I acknowledge that Mrs M said the agent for the flat below hers could corroborate her 
tenants version of events. But Ive also seen an email from him dated 25 March 2022 in which he stated:
Happy to provide any sort of witness statement you need just prepare the words and Ill sign 
at the bottom.
I appreciate that Mrs M has been concerned throughout her complaint that the people in the 
flat below hers shouldnt suffer due to the leak in her flat. And I understand that the agent for 
that flat would be well aware of the problems they had encountered due to the leak. But Ive 
no evidence that the agent would have any idea what had caused the flood. He could only 
know the consequences of the flood. Therefore Ive no reason to ask the agent for a witness 
statement, especially given the statement above.
Im sorry that Mrs M, her tenants and the tenants of the flat below hers have been impacted 
by the flood. I understand that it has been very distressing for them. But Im satisfied that the 
evidence shows that the flood had happened before the plumbers visit. Therefore it wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable to hold BG responsible for the consequences of the flood. And I dont 
uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman