DRN-2917608
The complaint
A charity, which Ill refer to as U, complains about the handling by Barclays Bank UK PLC of 
the recovery of its funds from its account after the account was declared dormant.
Mr R, a trustee of U, brings the complaint on U's behalf.
What happened
U had an account with Barclays. In September 2016, Barclays closed the account because 
of inactivity. Barclays says it sent a letter to U three months prior to closure to signal its 
intent to close the account, but it has been unable to provide any evidence of this letter. 
Mr R says that U never received notification from Barclays of the account closure and only 
realised it had been closed in 2018. Mr R complained to Barclays about this. Barclays 
acknowledged its poor service, apologised and offered Mr R £100 compensation.
Mr R sought to access Us money and Barclays informed him to visit his local branch. 
However, the visit was fruitless as the branch staff were unable to help. At this point the 
complaint was reopened, Barclays acknowledged that it shouldnt have advised Mr R to go 
to the branch, and the offer of compensation was increased to £200.
In this period, Barclays also set out to Mr R the correct actions required to release Us 
money. 
There then followed a series of correspondence between Mr R and Barclays, in which Mr R 
complained about how he had been treated.
In January 2020, U completed the required paperwork to get the money released. Barclays 
confirmed receipt and told Mr R that, as the final step, he needed to visit his local branch to 
verify his identity documents. Mr R says he wasnt happy at having to go back to the branch 
again, and about the confusing messages hed received from the bank about the process. 
He has also questioned why the required paperwork couldnt have been printed for him at 
his first branch visit and completed then. However, he did visit the branch, the required steps 
were completed and the money from Us closed account was released. 
Throughout this period, Mr R raised a series of complaints against Barclays. One of his 
points of concern was that Barclays phoned him and required him to confirm his identity by 
disclosing personal information, such as his date of birth and account number. Through 
these complaint processes, Barclays acknowledged the mis-information initially, which had 
led to the fruitless visit to Mr Rs local branch, and a short delay in January 2020 which had 
held up the release of funds at the end of the process. In reviewing Mr Rs complaints again, 
Barclays increased its offer of compensation to Mr R to £300.
Mr R told Barclays that the compensation it had offered was not enough for the way in which 
he had been treated. Mr R later said that he wanted to receive this compensation, 
notwithstanding that he thought the amount too low, but complains that hes still not received 
it.
Not content with Barclays response, Mr R brought Us complaint to us. Our investigator 
considered Us complaint but found that the amount Barclays had offered to Mr R was fair in 
the circumstances for the mistakes it had made. As Mr R did not accept this view, the matter 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint covers a long period of time with many interactions between Mr R and 
Barclays. Mr R has made a number of detailed points. While I have considered them all 
carefully, I dont intend to address each point and will instead focus on what I consider to be 
the central issues to this complaint. 
In assessing whether U has been treated fairly and reasonably by Barclays, there are three 
questions for me to consider:
Did Barclays act fairly when closing Us account?
Did Barclays act reasonably to facilitate the return of Us funds?
Did Barclays handle Us complaints about the process in a fair and reasonable 
manner?
Ill consider each in turn below.
Did Barclays act fairly when closing Us account
The terms and conditions of Us account with Barclays state that Barclays can close an 
account on which there have been no payments for 12 consecutive months, but that it 
should give two months notice when doing so. 
Given the transaction history on Us account, Im satisfied that Barclays acted fairly in 
seeking to close Us account. However, I havent seen any evidence to show that Barclays 
gave two months notice of the account closure, so I dont think it gave U reasonable notice 
that the account would close.
Did Barclays act reasonably to facilitate the return of Us funds?
It is also not in dispute that Barclays made a mistake initially in instructing Mr R that, to gain 
access to Us funds, he would need to visit his local branch. Barclays has acknowledged that 
it gave this advice in error.
However, in the summer of 2018, it corrected this advice and set out clearly the actions 
required. Although there were a few steps, including another visit to a local branch to have 
documents verified, I believe these requirements were reasonable given the regulatory 
obligations under which Barclays operates.
It also appears to me that Barclays progressed Us request without significant delay once the 
required paperwork was received. The documentation was received by Barclays in early 
January 2020 and the funds released later the same month. So I dont think Barclays acted 
unreasonably in how it handled the return of Us funds once the correct process was 
explained.
Mr R has said that he was unhappy that Barclays asked for private and confidential details 
when phoning him on his private number. However, I have seen nothing to indicate that Barclays wasnt following its standard procedures for verifying the person with whom it is 
talking, which is an essential step to protect the confidential information of its customers. 
Therefore, I dont believe it did anything wrong in this regard.
Did Barclays handle Us complaints about the process in a fair and reasonable manner?
Throughout the period in which U sought to gain access to its funds, there was extensive 
correspondence between Mr R and Barclays. Mr R clearly feels that some Barclays 
personnel treated him badly. Mr R complained about Barclays behaviour at different points, 
with Barclays last response to Mr R sent in February 2020. 
Barclays has offered Mr R £300 to compensate him personally for the inconvenience caused 
through the process to recover Us funds and for his overall experience. However, given that 
I am considering a complaint from U against Barclays, it would not be appropriate for me to 
comment on this. I note only that, while Mr R says he is still awaiting payment of this 
amount, Barclays is of the view that Mr R continues to dispute the amount of compensation 
and has not provided the requested account details for where he would like the amount to be 
paid. I understand the offer of £300 is still available to Mr R.
I asked Barclays why it chose to compensate Mr R personally rather than U. It explained 
how its actions had impacted Mr R rather than the charity, and noted the dormancy of Us 
account. 
In my view, it is difficult to say that U as a charity has been inconvenienced by Barclays 
mistakes, or has suffered any direct losses, given its inactivity throughout the period. Mr R 
says that U couldnt pay its mortgage and bills while it didnt have access to its funds. But its 
not clear that there was any material impact on U as its account was inactive for a long 
period before it was declared dormant by Barclays, it took Mr R a long time even to realise 
that the account was dormant and there is no indication that U has significantly increased its 
activity since. I acknowledge that, due to Barclays actions, U was required to open a new 
bank account, but I have stated above how I believe it was reasonable for Barclays to 
declare Us account dormant, so this does not represent a harm consequent to any mistake. 
For these reasons, I can understand why Barclays chose to compensate Mr R personally for 
the inconvenience he suffered through these events rather than U.
Summary
In both how it closed Us account and in the process by which U sought to access its funds, 
Barclays made mistakes, as set out above. However, given that there has been no material 
loss or inconvenience to U, and noting that Barclays has sought to compensate Mr R for the 
inconvenience he suffered personally, I dont believe Barclays need take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask U to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman