DRN-2568318
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society havent been able to locate an historic 
building society account. 
What happened
Mr S held a Cheshire Building Society account in 1999, for which he has recently found the 
passbook. Cheshire merged with Nationwide in 2014, and Mr S contacted Nationwide in 
2020 to ask them to locate the old account. 
Nationwide told Mr S that theyd been unable to locate the account, and that it had likely 
been closed prior to the merger in 2014. 
Unhappy with this, Mr S brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for Mr S. They thought that Nationwide had completed a fair search for the account, 
and that there wasnt anything more they needed to do. 
Mr S says theres no evidence that the account was closed, and hed like Nationwide to pay 
him the likely balance in the account, plus accrued interest, so the case has been passed to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide havent been able to show when the account was closed, or where the money 
went. The lack of information is understandable given the time that has passed  some 20 
years  and that the account was originally held with Cheshire. 
Mr S says he still has the passbook, and that it doesnt show any signs that the account has 
been closed. But passbooks are only a snapshot of the account at that point in time  here 
February 1999. Accounts can be closed without a passbook. This can sometimes cause 
confusion when they are discovered years later, which appears to be what has happened 
here. Passbooks can get lost or stolen. The bank or building society doesnt get to keep the 
money when that happens, it still has to be given to the account holder. So, its always been 
possible to take the money out of a passbook account without handing over the actual book. 
In the same way, a bank would allow an account to be closed without the passbook as long 
as they are satisfied of the identity of the customer.
I have carefully considered what checks Nationwide have done to try and trace what 
happened. 
Nationwide searched their records and havent been able to find any information about the 
account. Had the account been active after the takeover of Cheshire took place, Id expect 
Nationwide to have a record of the open account. If the account had been closed by 
Nationwide due to it being dormant, Id expect them to have a record of this as well. But 
Nationwide have been unable to locate any account for Mr S. Because of this, Nationwide 
assume the account was closed before they took over Cheshire. 
Ive looked at the evidence of the searches done by Nationwide, including combinations of 
the data given to them by Mr S, and different surnames. Having done so, Im satisfied on the 
balance of probabilities that its a fair and reasonable assumption from Nationwide that the 
account was most likely closed before they took over Cheshire. 
Having looked at everything Im satisfied Nationwide has acted fairly and reasonably when 
searching their records to determine what happened to the account. Im satisfied that it is 
more likely than not, based on the evidence, that the account was closed before Nationwide 
took over Cheshire. Its unfortunate, but not unexpected after 20 years, that Nationwide have 
been unable to say where the money went. Whilst I understand that this is frustrating for Mr 
S, I dont find theyve made any errors in their actions. This being so there is no basis for me 
to require Nationwide to make any payment to Mr S.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman