DRN-2416892
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are represented by a claims management company (CMC) in bringing their 
complaint.
The CMC says Mr and Mrs S were misadvised by Barclays Bank UK Plc to invest £50,000 
into a Barclays Personal Investment Management (BPIM) high level capital growth portfolio 
in 2000. It submits that the recommendation was unsuitable for first-time investors as it 
posed too much risk and the amount invested represented too much of their available 
capital.
What happened
The CMC complained to Barclays in February 2020. It said Mr and Mrs S had a number of 
retail businesses at the time of the advice, but these had been in decline because of 
changes in technology affecting consumer demand. On that basis, they shouldnt have been 
given advice to invest at all, as they were facing an uncertain financial future, meaning theyd 
have struggled to recoup any losses. Further, the CMC said that Mr and Mrs S werent in a 
position to take the degree of risk presented by the investment. 
Barclays rejected the complaint. It said the advice it provided was appropriate for Mr and Mrs 
S. They had been referred by their Business Manager as they had a large amount of cash 
on deposit and were looking to invest some of their funds over a term of at least five years.
Barclays said it was satisfied Mr and Mrs S were made aware that the BPIM portfolio was 
medium risk and that it was a level of risk they were comfortable taking in order to try and 
achieve their longer term objectives.
Barclays did otherwise offer Mr and Mrs S £250 for the delay in addressing their complaint. 
The CMC brought the complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. She did not believe the complaint should succeed. Her view was that Mr and 
Mrs S were left with enough funds on deposit, and the investment didnt represent too much 
of their disposable capital. Further, she thought the recommendation of the portfolio was in 
line with the objectives and attitude to risk reasonably identified by the adviser.
The CMC said it disagreed. It reiterated that Mr and Mrs S were first time investors; they had 
not invested before and as such, a medium risk portfolio was simply too high risk for them. It 
said Mr and Mrs S wanted the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator.  
When Mr and Mrs S sought advice, they were recorded as having recently sold part of their 
business premises. They had plans to spend £40,000 within the next two years, leaving a 
further £76,000 on deposit. In the fact find documentation set out by the adviser, Mr and Mrs 
S explained how they wished to invest some of the proceeds of the sale in order to achieve 
potential capital growth in the medium to long term.  
Mr and Mrs S, having been owners of their businesses since 1981, were happy to invest the 
agreed sum for a period of at least five years. I consider they were left with a reasonable 
amount of capital on deposit. They were recorded as being aged in their 50s, having no 
dependents, no outstanding mortgage liability or other debts. In the circumstances, I dont 
think the amount invested was inappropriate and it was reasonable for the adviser to 
suggest. Mr and Mrs S had sufficient emergency funds and their recorded monthly 
expenditure was exceeded by their income. They gave instructions to close the portfolio in 
2011 and they hadnt needed to make any withdrawals during this period. 
When completing the fact find, discussions took place about the level of risk Mr and Mrs S 
were prepared to take with their investment. It was agreed that Mr and Mrs S attitude to risk 
was medium as they wanted to achieve a high level of long term growth.
Mr and Mrs S were aware they would have to take some risk to obtain the returns they were 
hoping for. In fact, Mr and Mrs S pursued a different complaint to Barclays in 2011 relating to 
risk. In that complaint, they told Barclays they were unhappy with a BPIM change affecting 
risk rating for customers including Mr and Mrs S. They stated at that time that they had 
agreed and understood that they had a medium not an adventurous risk profile. 
While this complaint is separate and I will not look to review its outcome, it is relevant 
evidence relating to the grounds of complaint that the CMC brings now. It says medium risk 
wasnt suitable because Mr and Mrs P didnt have any experience of investments of this 
nature. However, I disagree with that. There will be a point at which all investors undertake 
investment decisions for the first time. What I need to consider is whether Barclays adviser 
took sufficient care to assess Mr and Mrs S requirements, their financial situation, and 
investment objectives and that she used this information to make a suitable 
recommendation. In the circumstances I believe she did so.  
Mr and Mrs S knew that they were agreeing to a level of risk for this particular investment in 
order to obtain the return they wanted.   
The BPIM portfolio was invested in fixed interest securities, equities and the remainder in 
cash. I dont consider a portfolio of this nature, of itself, to be too complex for first time 
investors, bearing in mind that investment decisions were made by the portfolio manager. Mr 
and Mrs S signed a BPIM agreement during the meeting with the adviser. I realise the CMC 
says Mr and Mrs S anticipated that their business income was likely to be affected in the 
future due to technological changes, but Ive seen no evidence that discussions of this 
nature were had with the adviser or that any such change would have otherwise influenced 
their decision to invest some of their capital into the portfolio. 
I therefore consider on balance that Mr and Mrs S wanted to go ahead with the advisors 
recommendation and that the advice was suitable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award.   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman