DRN-2797538
The complaint
Ms S has complained about her motor insurer AXA insurance UK Plc because it cancelled 
her policy when she didnt provide it with further details.
What happened
Ms S arranged cover with AXA on 17 March 2020, to start the following day. In the on-line 
application she told AXA about two previous claims shed had. On 23 March 2020 AXA 
emailed Ms S as it had found details of a third claim on the industry database which was 
logged as open and unresolved. The email said AXA would allow Ms S a short time to 
amend her details.
On 6 April 2020 AXA emailed Ms S again and may also have sent her a letter. The letter 
contained the same detail as the email. The email said AXA hadnt heard from Ms S, it 
needed to, and if her details werent updated by 20 April 2020 her policy would be cancelled. 
On 14 April 2020 Ms S contacted AXA about the correspondence shed received. She said 
there wasnt actually a third claim. AXA said she would need to take this up with her previous 
insurer and get it to amend her record. Ms S said she would. AXA said that was fine and, as 
long as she got back in touch with it before 20 April 2020, it would be able to avoid the 
cancellation. Ms S then ran into difficulty contacting her previous insurer and didnt update 
AXA any further. AXA cancelled the policy.
Ms S was later stopped by the police. No action was taken as she was able to show shed 
paid for insurance. But having been made aware that her policy with AXA had been 
cancelled, she contacted AXA to complain. She said she has difficulty, for health reasons, in 
retaining information and AXA hadnt made her sufficiently aware it was going to, or indeed 
had, cancelled her policy. Nor did it tell her she could add the details of the claim and then 
dispute it later.
AXA didnt feel it had done anything wrong. Ms S complained to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She noted AXA had asked to be told about all 
incidents, not just claims. So she felt this third and disputed claim was something Ms S 
should have told AXA about. And she felt Ms S had been aware that she needed to do 
something by 20 April 2020 in order to stop the policy being cancelled.
Ms S felt the outcome was unfair. She said that, having told AXA she was going to contact 
her previous insurer, she expected it would have put a hold on the cancellation issue until 
she got back in touch with it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt clear if AXA sent the cancellation letter by post as well as email. But given Ms Ss call 
to AXA on 14 April 2020, she clearly received the 6 April email. And AXAs correspondence 
clearly said that if nothing was done the policy would cancel on 20 April 2020 without further 
notice or contact being given. Further, at the end of the phone call on 14 April 2020, AXAs 
representative clearly said they needed to hear back from Ms S before 20 April 2020. There 
were no assurances or any indication given that the matter would now be on hold until Ms S 
got in touch again.
So I think AXA was clear with Ms S about what it needed from her, when this would be 
needed by and what would happen if she didnt come back to it. Whilst I know Ms S had 
difficulty dealing with her previous insurer, AXA wasnt to know that. If Ms S had got back in 
touch and updated it, Id have expected it to take into account the circumstances and to wait. 
But as Ms S didnt get back in touch with it further, I dont think its unreasonable that as of 
20 April 20202 Ms Ss policy was cancelled, as AXA had said it would be in its email of 
6 April 2020. Im satisfied AXA acted fairly and reasonably. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against AXA insurance UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman