DRN-1719744
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that Tandem Bank Limited (Tandem) took too long to update the phone 
number on his account, causing him inconvenience.
What happened
Mr C has a Tandem credit card. He called Tandem one Saturday in order to change the 
phone number they held for him. But Tandem said there was no-one available to do this. 
They said that someone would call Mr C back on the Monday. But this didnt happen, and Mr 
C says he had to call Tandem again. He says it took three days for his phone number to be 
updated and he had to use other cards in the meantime. He wasnt happy about that as he 
prefers to use the Tandem card.
When Mr C complained to Tandem, they explained that they cant change certain customer 
details at the weekend. But they acknowledged that they hadnt called Mr C back on the 
Monday as promised. So they upheld that aspect of the complaint. But they said they had 
called Mr C on the Tuesday and his details had been updated at that point. So they didnt 
offer any compensation as they said the inconvenience to Mr C had been minimal.
Mr C wasnt happy with Tandems response and brought his complaint to this service. He 
says that Tandem havent recognised the distress this situation caused. He would like some 
compensation.
Our investigator thought that Tandem had acted fairly here, so she didnt ask them to do any 
more. But Mr C didnt accept her findings and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tandem say they cant change customer numbers securely over the weekend and thats why 
the agent wasnt able to change Mr Cs number when he first called. I think thats a 
reasonable explanation. Tandem recognise that this could be frustrating for some customers 
and say theyre working to address it. But the solution offered in Mr Cs case was that 
someone would call him back on the Monday to help with his request. I think that was a 
reasonable approach.
Unfortunately, Mr C didnt get a call back on the Monday. Tandem have apologised for this. 
But Mr C remains unhappy about the situation and says he had to call Tandem on the 
Monday evening to chase them up. He says thats the reason they called him back on the 
Tuesday. I note that Mr C did spend time on the phone to Tandem on the Monday evening. 
But Im satisfied that Tandem called him back on the Tuesday and updated his phone 
number then. So, although the experience was very frustrating for Mr C, I dont find that the 
delay in Tandem calling him was excessive. I think its fair that Tandem have apologised for 
not calling back on the Monday. But I dont think they need to do any more as I dont find that 
their delay had any significant impact.
Mr C says he couldnt use the Tandem credit card until his phone number had been 
updated. He says he wanted to use the card to pay for flights and car hire on the Saturday 
that he first called Tandem. But he says he didnt attempt the transactions because he knew 
a pass-code would be needed. And, as Tandem didnt have his new phone number to send 
the pass-code to, he says he knew the transactions would be unsuccessful. He says he uses 
the card frequently and that Tandem always send a pass-code to his phone for him to 
authorise payments. But Tandem say that a pass-code isnt required for every transaction 
and that, where one is required, its enacted by the merchant, not Tandem. 
I dont have enough information to enable me to make a finding about whether a pass-code 
would have been needed to book the flights and car hire. But I havent seen anything to 
suggest that waiting until the Tuesday to use the card caused Mr C any detriment.
Mr C says he was concerned that the cost of the flights and car hire would go up if he didnt 
book them that weekend. But I havent seen any evidence that the prices did go up. And I 
havent seen anything to suggest that Mr C is out of pocket in any other respect as a result 
of his phone number not being updated until the Tuesday.
I realise Mr C feels strongly about his complaint. But I dont think it warrants a payment of 
compensation. I think Tandem have acted fairly here, so Im not going to ask them to do any 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman