DRN-2714335
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy with the way Landmark Mortgages Limited dealt with her loan after she 
fell into arrears.
What happened
In 2014, Miss S experienced some financial difficulty and fell into arrears on her loan 
account with Landmark mortgages. She entered into a debt management plan and a 
payment arrangement for the loan. Miss S also held a mortgage account with Landmark 
Mortgages.
From 2015 Miss Ss situation improved and she was able to make additional payments to 
Landmark Mortgages. This was to reduce her arrears and bring the loan back up to date.
In Summer 2020, Miss S made a formal complaint to Landmark Mortgages about how it had 
handled her accounts. Shed discovered that it hadnt been paying the additional payments 
towards the loan and had instead used the funds to reduce her mortgage balance. That 
meant her loan continued to be in arrears and she believed interest was charged on this 
higher debt. She also complained about how the debt had been reported to credit reference 
agencies, as she explained she hadnt missed any payments as she had got into a payment 
plan as soon as she got into financial difficulties.
Landmark Mortgages partially upheld her complaint. It accepted that it had paid the 
overpayments to the mortgage account instead of the loan. It also acknowledged there were 
some reporting errors on Miss Ss credit file. However it didnt agree to remove all the 
missed payment markers Miss S was unhappy about. It explained that these reflected times 
when she was in arrears  so while she had made payments, the account itself wasnt up to 
date. It awarded £250 for the service Miss S had received.
Miss S brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator decided that some further 
amendments were needed to Miss Ss credit file. She noted some months the loan had been 
reported as in arrears, when it shouldve been reported that Miss S was in a payment 
arrangement. However, she also noted that the reverse was true and at times when there 
wasnt an arrangement Landmark Mortgages had reported there was. Landmark Mortgages 
agreed to amend Miss Ss credit file to reflect the existence of payment arrangements, but 
decided it wouldnt change the file to reflect when there wasnt an arrangement. Our 
investigator noted that no interest was charged on the loan when Miss S was behind on 
payments, so she hadnt lost out financially due to the apportioning error. And she said the 
compensation awarded was fair.
Miss S asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. She considered that she was due 
additional compensation for the distress this had caused her. She pointed out that additional 
amendments were needed to her credit file since our service was involved. And she said that 
her account was showing as in more arrears and in arrears for longer due to Landmark 
Mortgages error. She said this prevented her from obtaining other credit and that her credit 
file still looked poor.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S considers that Landmark Mortgages error meant she was in more arrears, for longer 
than she shouldve been. Ive reviewed her account statements and I do agree that her loan 
account was showing as having a greater arrears balance than it should have, due to the 
overpayments being apportioned to the mortgage account. However I dont agree she was 
shown as being in arrears for longer than she was.
Miss S complained about the above errors in Summer 2020. While she had made a large 
number of overpayments by this time, and had substantially reduced her arrears, she hadnt 
yet cleared it. Landmark Mortgages has re-worked her account as if it had correctly 
apportioned her overpayments. Ive reviewed this re-work of the account and Im satisfied its 
been done correctly. Even with the overpayments the loan remained in arrears until 
November 2020. So while I accept the amount of arrears was less than shown on her credit 
file, Im satisfied it didnt show any months as being in arrears when the account was up to 
date. This part of the complaint was correctly resolved before November 2020, when the 
arrears was cleared.
Ive considered that Landmark Mortgages did make reporting errors on Miss Ss credit file. 
And that our service spotted further errors when the complaint came to us, as there was a 
difference in reporting between two credit file providers. However, we spotted errors that 
acted in Miss Ss favour as well as to her detriment. Landmark Mortgages had both recorded 
there wasnt a payment arrangement when there was  but also that Miss S was in a plan at 
times she wasnt. Landmark has amended the incorrect negative entries, but hasnt 
amended Miss Ss file to change its errors that were beneficial to her.
Miss S has said that despite the amendments her credit file still looks poor. And shes said 
she was refused other credit due to Landmark Mortgages errors. However Miss S hasnt 
provided evidence to show this was the case. As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that her 
account correctly remained in arrears until November 2020. And adverse credit information 
remains on file for six years. And both arrears and payments plan will decrease a persons 
score. While I dont know what criteria the lenders Miss S applied to have, its very likely they 
will have looked at her credit file to see the status of her other outstanding debt. And any 
debt thats in arrears will factor into a responsible lending decision. So I cant say it was 
simply the apportioning error and so Landmark Mortgages actions that led to the decline/s.
Landmark Mortgages have offered Miss S £250 compensation for the errors. Ive considered 
whether this is fair in the circumstances  and I think it is. While I accept Miss S has been 
caused inconvenience by this mistake, I think £250 is a fair amount to compensate her for 
this. I havent seen evidence the errors caused any additional detriment outside of this debt 
and while it does take some time for credit file amendments to show, I can see Landmark 
Mortgages has acted very promptly to put through the amendments on its side. So Im not 
directing it to award any further compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 Amy Osborne
Ombudsman