DRN-3633036
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about what happened when they asked Barclays Bank UK PLC to
redeem a buy to let (BTL) mortgage for them.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D tried to redeem a BTL mortgage. They paid £50,000 on 17 March 2021, and a
similar sum on 18 March. The second amount reached their mortgage account, but the first
didnt. Mr D realised right away that hed made a mistake with the first payment, and he
contacted Barclays. It reassured him that the money had been located and would be applied
to his mortgage, so he cancelled the direct debit which was making the monthly payments.
The money wasnt applied to the mortgage, and it wasnt returned to Mr Ds current account
with Barclays either. Mr and Mrs D started getting demand letters, and their credit files
started to show missed payments for the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs D raised their first complaint about this in May 2021. They received a complaint
response letter dated 12 July 2021, that said the money had finally been located and applied
to their account. Barclays apologised for telling Mr D earlier that the money had been
returned to him. Barclays said it couldnt evidence that Mr Ds credit file had been affected,
and it asked him to send evidence of this if he wanted it to consider any problems there. And
Barclays offered £350 to apologise for what had gone wrong.
This letter didnt say which account the money had been applied to  the mortgage account
or a current account. Mr and Mrs D could see that the money wasnt in a current account,
and they continued to receive demands for overdue mortgage amounts, sent out a week
after the date of Barclays letter.
Mr and Mrs D complained again, saying that they wanted this money to be used to clear the
mortgage, they were still getting demands for overdue payments, and they could show the
impact on their credit files.
Barclays sent a second complaint response letter, dated 10 August 2021. That said the
money had been used to clear Mr and Mrs Ds BTL mortgage. The closure was in progress,
and Barclays said Mr and Mrs D would receive a closing statement and title deeds in around
10 to 15 working days.
Barclays said it had requested a cleanse of Mr and Mrs Ds credit file. It was sorry it hadnt
done that earlier. It also offered an additional £100 in compensation, taking its offer up to
£450.
Our investigator thought Barclays should pay a little more compensation than it had offered.
He noted that Mr and Mrs D still hadnt received the closure documentation Barclays had
promised to send. And although the negative markers had been removed from their credit
files, they still werent sure what had been done with the mortgage.
Our investigator said that this episode had caused great stress and frustration for Mr and
Mrs D. He thought the offer of compensation in the first complaint response letter (which was
£350) was reasonable in light of the errors and distress it covered. But he said that a number
of things which the July letter said had been done, didnt appear to have been done, so Mr
and Mrs D had to complain again. And some of the things they were then promised in the
next letter, sent in August 2021, still hadnt been done many months later.
Our investigator said Mr and Mrs D should now be provided with a closing statement for their
BTL mortgage and details about how Barclays would return the title deeds, as it had offered
in its August 2021 letter. And he said Barclays should pay an extra £150 in compensation,
on top of the £350 and £100 amounts that it had already offered.
After some time, Barclays responded to say it would accept this view. It sent copies of a
closing statement and letter, which our investigator forwarded to Mr and Mrs D, and it agreed
to pay the additional compensation.
But Mr and Mrs D didnt want to accept this. They said Barclays had put the wrong address
on its letter. The letter wasnt on headed paper, and the salutation had been left blank. They
felt it was unprofessional. They also said that this letter only said title information was now
stored electronically at the Land Registry, so they wouldnt be sent title deeds. Mr and Mrs D
said they could easily have been told this before. They noted that Barclays previously said it
had sent this to their solicitors, although no one there received it, and their enquiry about
where exactly it had been sent received no reply.
Mr and Mrs D also said the redemption statement also had the wrong address, and it was
dated for the end of 2022. They thought that a future-dated statement was of little value.
Mr and Mrs D thought they should be paid £600 each, not £600 in total. They wanted their
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
The key facts of this case dont seem to me to be in any dispute. Mr D made the initial 
mistake with his payment, because he didnt include a reference. But Barclays has then 
failed over a period of more than a year, to fully resolve the issue. Mr and Mrs D spent a 
number of months receiving demands for a payment theyd already made.
There do seem to me to be quite a number of points where Barclays has let Mr and Mrs 
D down. The failure to locate and secure their money seems to have gone on for some 
months. This was a very large sum, and it had only ever been held internally at 
Barclays. It doesnt seem as if this money was ever lost, just that when it was located, a 
manual step required to either pay it back or apply it to the mortgage wasnt taken.
Barclays then said it had paid the money onto their account, but Mr and Mrs D quite 
reasonably doubted this when it wasnt in their current account and they were still 
receiving demands to pay the mortgage.
We now know that the payment was located and applied to the right mortgage in early 
July. It took some time for the mortgage account to close, so Mr and Mrs D were still 
receiving demands after this point, and Barclays hadnt warned them that might be the 
case. Barclays has written off the interest that was added to the mortgage from the 
original payment date until the date of closure.Barclays also told Mr and Mrs D in July that it couldnt evidence that their credit files had 
been affected. But it could have done so  it was Barclays after all who had informed the 
credit reference agencies that Mr and Mrs D had missed payments, and banks do keep 
records of the credit reports they have made for their customers. Mr and Mrs Ds credit 
files continued to be damaged during this time, and Mr D told us that the credit limit on a 
separate card was cut in half, not long before Barclays finally managed to repair his file. 
I think it is likely that this happened because Barclays had told credit refence agencies 
that Mr D had missed a series of payments on a mortgage  which could be expected to 
cause considerable concern for his other lenders.
The second complaint response letter, sent in August 2021, finally promised a speedy 
and complete resolution. Mr and Mrs D must have taken some comfort then that their 
credit files were repaired and the demands for payment stopped. Unfortunately, the 
documents promised in that letter werent supplied to them for almost ten months.
Barclays says that the delay in responding to our investigator was due to an 
administrative error. But this wouldnt explain why it hadnt already sent Mr and Mrs D 
the documents it promised them almost a year earlier.
Mr and Mrs D have now received a letter confirming that their mortgage has been repaid 
and the charge on their property has been removed. I do think they should have been 
told rather earlier that this had been done, and that they wouldnt actually receive title 
deeds  I would expect Barclays to be aware that such documents are rarely if ever held 
by banks now.
Mr and Mrs D were also unhappy with the statement they received, which they said was 
future dated. I dont think thats quite what Barclays has done. Mortgage statements are 
often issued on an annual basis. So I think this statement covers the years from start 
2020 to end 2022, and its clear from the content that the mortgage was redeemed in 
2021.
Taking this complaint as a whole, I agree with our investigator that Barclays offers of 
compensation are insufficient. I dont think a total payment of £600 would be quite 
enough to make up for the lengthy periods of worry that Mr and Mrs D have experienced 
while their money was missing and they were being pursued for a large debt that they 
had already paid, as well as the even longer periods of frustration that they have 
experienced trying to get confirmation that their mortgage has been properly redeemed 
and Barclays charge removed from the property. I think the impact of Barclays mistake 
has caused substantial distress, upset and worry. For those reasons, my provisional 
decision is that Barclays should pay Mr and Mrs D a total of £900 in compensation.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied. Barclays said it was happy to accept my decision, and Mr and Mrs D said 
they had nothing to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has offered any further argument or evidence in response to my provisional 
decision. And I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Mr and Mrs D a total of £900 in 
compensation. Barclays Bank UK PLC can count any compensation it has already paid in 
this case towards that amount. But it cannot count the interest that it has waived from Mr and 
Mrs Ds mortgage.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman