DRN-2736309
The complaint
Mr W complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc handled his claim on his car insurance 
following an incident. 
At times during the claim and complaint, Mr W has been represented by his wife. However 
for ease of reading, all references to Mr W include the actions of his wife.     
What happened
Mr W had car insurance with AXA. In December 2019 he was involved in an incident and 
made a claim. The car was still drivable and wasnt taken in to repair until February 2020. At 
this time Mr W was provided with a courtesy car.
Shortly after this the car was deemed a total loss. Mr W queried this decision as he had 
been able to drive it before it went in for repairs. He asked for a second opinion from a 
different garage and AXA said this would be arranged. At the start of April the courtesy car 
was returned.
Over the next few months there was very little contact from AXA. Mr W called a number of 
times as he didnt know where his car was being held. In July 2020 AXA confirmed the car 
was at a salvage yard. It then made an offer for settlement which Mr W disputed. At the start 
of September 2020 AXA increased its offer to £4,500, less the £100 excess and Mr W 
accepted. 
However he said he was unhappy with the service that had been provided throughout. He 
said the process had taken too long and AXA had been very difficult to get hold of on the 
phone. He also said its agent had been abusive to him on the phone. Further, he said AXA 
had taken the courtesy car away in April so he hadnt had access to a vehicle for a number 
of months. And he said he had been making monthly insurance payments and thought these 
should be refunded as he hadnt had a car. He made a complaint.
AXA acknowledged Mr Ws complaint but didnt provide a full response within the relevant 
time frame. So Mr W brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said she thought AXA had 
provided poor service and delayed the claim being resolved. She thought it should pay Mr W 
£450 compensation, to make up for the poor service and the interest lost due to a delay in 
the final settlement payment. However she said she didnt think AXA had acted unfairly by 
taking away the courtesy car as this is only provided under the policy if the car is repairable. 
And during the time that followed Mr W had been shielding due to the coronavirus pandemic, 
so he hadnt lost out on use of a vehicle. She also didnt agree that AXA should refund the 
premiums he had paid, as she thought it most likely he would still have paid these regardless 
of AXAs actions. 
AXA accepted this recommendation. However Mr W didnt agree. He said the direction to 
shield was guidance from the government and not mandatory, so he may have needed to 
use a car. Further he said he didnt think it was fair that hed had to pay the premiums in the 
months he was without the car. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Service
Mr W has said that AXA provided poor service throughout his claim. And it should pay a 
greater amount of compensation to make up for it.
From looking at the timeline of the claim, I agree AXA hasnt always provided good service. 
There were periods of time where no progress was made and AXA didnt update Mr W which 
meant he had to call it a number of times to find out what was going on. 
For example, after the car was assessed the first time, AXA agreed to a second assessment 
on Mr Ws request. However after this, there was very little communication. And this left 
Mr W uncertain about where his car was or when the claim would be resolved. To the point 
that he contacted the police to assist. And this would have been distressing.
I understand that the second inspection was delayed due to the coronavirus restrictions at 
the time. However I think AXA could, and should, have done more to keep Mr W updated 
about what would happen next. 
Further, had the second inspection been carried out when it was requested in February 
2020, this may have been completed before the restrictions were put in place the following 
month. So I think AXA delayed the progress of the claim and this could have been avoided. 
Further Mr W has said that AXAs agent called him and were threatening and abusive. While 
Ive not been able to listen to this call I have no reason to doubt Mr Ws account. And this 
would have been very distressing for Mr W, especially as there had been so little contact 
from AXA or its agents before this point. 
For these reasons I agree AXA should pay compensation to make up for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused Mr W. From considering everything I think AXA caused a delay to 
the progress of the claim of around three months. And in this time, it failed to communicate 
sufficiently with Mr W in order to keep him updated. Which would have caused further 
distress and inconvenience. It also delayed payment of the settlement, which would have 
meant Mr W was without the money for a number of months more than he should have 
been. Based on this I agree with our investigators recommendation that AXA should pay 
£450 compensation. 
Courtesy car
Mr W doesnt think it was fair for AXA to take the courtesy car provided from him in April 
2020. He says this left him without a car and he should be compensated for this.
The policy states that a courtesy car will be provided whilst an approved repairer fixes your 
car. As the car was deemed a total loss, this meant that Mr W was no longer eligible for a 
courtesy car under the policy. So I dont think it was unreasonable that this was taken away. 
However, as I think AXA unnecessarily delayed the claim, Ive also considered whether Mr 
W suffered loss of use of a vehicle during this time. Mr W has explained that he was asked to shield due to the coronavirus pandemic. This 
meant that he was advised to stay at home. This advice remained in place for a number of 
months after the restrictions were put in place, so would have applied for the period when 
the claim was ongoing. 
Mr W has said that shielding wasnt mandatory and just advice from the government. 
However he has said throughout the claim that he has stayed at home. So I think its most 
likely that he did follow the government guidance. 
So while I agree Mr W was without a vehicle for a longer period than he should have been, I 
dont think its likely that this had a great impact on him in the circumstances. As it sems 
unlikely Mr W would have been using his car. For that reason I dont think it would be fair to 
ask AXA to compensate Mr W for loss of use. 
Premiums
Mr W says he continued to pay his insurance premiums during the time his car was in the 
garage and nothing was happening with the claim. He says AXA should refund him for this 
as no service was being provided during that time. 
I understand why Mr W feels the premiums should be refunded. It would have been very 
frustrating for him to have to continue to make payments while the claim was taking so long 
to resolve. While the car was at the garage, it would still need to be insured, so Mr W would 
still be required to make payments throughout that time.  
However, after a non fault accident where the car is written off, the premiums for the 
remaining period will usually be refunded. So Ive considered whether AXA should reimburse 
Mr W for the time it delayed the claim. As if it hadnt, the settlement may have been received 
earlier. 
When considering this I have thought about what Mr W would have done if the claim had 
been resolved more quickly and the settlement offered earlier. After he received the 
settlement in September, he bought a new replacement vehicle quickly after this. As his 
insurance was due for renewal in August 2020, he took out a new policy in September that 
year through a different provider. Based on this I think its likely that had he received the 
settlement earlier, he would have purchased another car at the time. As the policy would 
have still been in place, its most likely he would have changed it to cover the new vehicle. 
For this reason, I think its most likely that Mr W would have continued to pay for the policy, 
even if the claim had been settled earlier. I therefore dont think he has suffered a loss due to 
the continuing premium payments. So I wont ask AXA to reimburse Mr W for the premiums 
paid while his car was in the garage.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ws complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to 
pay Mr W £450 compensation.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman