DRN-3319536
The complaint
Mr S has complained that, because Saffron Building Society (Saffron) had no staff available 
to deal with his application to port (transfer) his mortgage, he had to take out a new 
mortgage and pay an early repayment charge (ERC).
To settle the complaint, Mr S would like Saffron to reimburse him for the ERC and to pay 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
What happened
I will keep my summary of the complaint fairly brief. There are several reasons for this. First, 
whats happened isnt really in dispute. Secondly, the details of the complaint have been set 
out in the letters from our investigator, and both Mr S and Saffron have copies of those. 
Finally, our decisions are published, and so its important that I dont include in this decision 
any information that might lead to Mr S being identified.
Mr S had an interest-only mortgage with Saffron taken out in 2019. The mortgage was for 
just over £121,000 against a property valuation of £495,000. The mortgage was on a fixed 
rate of interest of 2.57% until August 2021. If Mr S repaid the mortgage during that time, an 
early repayment charge of 2% of the amount repaid would apply. 
However, the mortgage also included a flexible feature which stated:
You have the right to transfer this loan to another property. This portability is subject 
to our approval at the time of the application and our then current lending criteria will 
be applied to your application.
Mr S has explained that at the time of the application in 2019, his intention was always to 
move the following year, so he specifically wanted a mortgage he could port.
In July 2020 Mr S contacted Saffron about porting the mortgage. Saffron told Mr S he 
couldnt port his mortgage because it didnt offer a mortgage advice service. As a result, 
Mr S went through a broker to apply for a new mortgage with Saffron  which was quickly 
approved  and he repaid his existing mortgage, incurring an ERC of about £2,500.
Mr S didnt think this was fair and complained. Saffron, in its final response letter, 
acknowledged Mr S wasnt happy he couldnt port his mortgage but said this is a service we 
do not offer, and explained that Saffron doesnt provide mortgage advice.
Mr S complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at what had 
happened and thought the complaint should be upheld. She noted that Mr S had, for his new 
mortgage, borrowed £10,000 more than his previous mortgage. However, Mr S explained 
that, because Saffron wouldnt port his mortgage on a like-for-like basis, he decided to 
borrow a little more for home improvements. He explained that he could have completed his 
purchase without needing to borrow more, if Saffron had approved the porting request.
The investigator was satisfied the complaint should be upheld. She explained to Saffron that 
the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB) at 11.6.3 
allowed lenders to disregard an affordability assessment if there was no change to the 
contract likely to be material to affordability. There was no change to affordability, and the 
loan-to-value ratio (LTV) had decreased. 
Consequently, she didnt think Saffron had acted fairly, because the only reason it seems his 
porting application couldnt be considered is that Saffron didnt have the staff available to 
assist him with his request.
Although the investigator initially asked Saffron to reimburse the entire ERC, she later noted 
that Mr Ss new mortgage was at a lower rate of interest of 1.47%, and so he had benefitted 
from this. Therefore, the investigator thought Saffron should do the following:
refund the ERC, plus interest at 8% simple per annum from the date of payment until the 
date of refund:
subtract from that the benefit Mr S had received from the date the new rate took effect 
until the previous rate would have come to an end in August 2021;
reimburse Mr S for any extra fees over and above the fees hed have had to pay if hed 
ported the mortgage, with interest at 8% simple per annum from the date the fees were 
paid until the date of refund;
pay compensation of £100 for trouble and upset
Mr S accepted the investigators findings but Saffron did not. Saffron said that other cases 
had not been upheld by the Financial Ombudsman Service, and that initially the investigator 
hadnt mentioned refunding fees. The investigator clarified that it appeared Saffron was able 
to deal with Mr Ss new mortgage application but not an application to port. As a result, she 
didnt think it was fair for Mr S to be charged the ERC. She explained to Saffron that her 
suggested redress took into account the cost of Mr S taking out the new mortgage.
Saffron still didnt think the investigators findings were fair and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint lies, in my view, in the wording of the porting clause. This says 
that Mr S has the right to port his mortgage  not the option. I appreciate that the clause then 
goes on to say that it is subject to Saffrons approval at the time of the application, and to 
Mr S meeting its lending criteria. 
Saffron has explained that when Mr S contacted it about porting, there wasnt a mortgage 
adviser available. Saffron says this was unexpected, but as a result, it wasnt able to offer a 
porting service.
Although I acknowledge this might have been unexpected, I am satisfied that it unfairly 
impacted Mr S. Saffrons inability to consider an application to port the mortgage isnt the 
same as considering an application and then declining it because it didnt meet Saffrons 
lending criteria. The availability of staff to deal with applications isnt part of Saffrons lending 
criteria.
Mr S subsequently went on to arrange a new mortgage with Saffron, and borrowed an extra 
£10,000. Im satisfied that if Mr S had asked for a like-for-like port with no additional borrowing hed have been able to continue with his purchase, because the additional funds 
werent needed for that purpose. I accept what Mr S says  that he only increased his 
borrowing (for home improvements) because hed been told he couldnt port the mortgage. I 
cant see any barrier to a porting application being approved, but for Saffrons staffing 
issues.
Consequently, Im satisfied that Mr S wasnt treated fairly; because he was denied the 
opportunity to apply to port his mortgage. His only option was to arrange a new mortgage 
with Saffron, and pay the ERC. At the very least, Id have expected Saffron to have 
exercised its discretion and waived the ERC in this case. After all, the only reason Mr S 
wasnt able to port his mortgage was because of internal issues at Saffron, and not because 
he didnt meet lending criteria.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied it is only fair and reasonable for Saffron to reimburse the 
ERC. Mr Ss new mortgage is at a lower rate of interest and so he has benefitted from 
having this lower rate. It is only fair that this benefit is taken into account in the redress I am 
awarding.
Im also satisfied that Mr S was caused some upset and inconvenience, for which he should 
also be compensated. 
Putting things right
To settle the complaint, I direct Saffron Building Society to do the following:
refund the ERC, plus interest at 8% simple per annum from the date of payment until the 
date of refund*:
subtract from that the benefit Mr S had received from the date the new rate took effect 
until the previous rate would have come to an end in August 2021;
reimburse Mr S for any extra fees over and above the fees hed have had to pay if hed 
ported the mortgage (including any broker and application fees), with interest at 8% 
simple per annum from the date the fees were paid until the date of refund*;
pay compensation of £100 for trouble and upset
* If Saffron considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from any interest, it should tell Mr S how much it has taken off. Saffron should also give Mr S 
a tax deduction certificate if requested, so the tax can be reclaimed from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Saffron Building Society to settle the 
complaint as detailed above. 
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman