DRN-3824270
The complaint
Miss E, Miss E, Mr E and the estate of Mrs E complain that A J Bell Management Limited
failed to send them communications about applying for shares in AJ Bell through its IPO
(Initial Public Offering).
  
They have also complained that A J Bell tried to obstruct complaints made to it, failed to
issue final response letters and advise them if they were still dissatisfied with the outcome
they could refer the matter to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
The four complainants have a representative acting on their behalf in this complaint. 
What happened
I sent my provisional decision on this complaint to the parties on 21 July 2022. The 
background and circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I didnt think it should 
be upheld were set out in that decision. However to recap, the representative (who is acting 
on the complainants behalf in this complaint) and the four complainants above (who were all 
family members) each had their own SIPP (Self Invested Personal Pension) account with AJ 
Bell. The representative/family members had all signed forms which allowed the 
representative to buy and sell investments on their behalf.
On two of the accounts this was by completing a Third party authority form. And the two 
other accounts a Representative instruction form.
The Third party authority form said, amongst other things:
I hereby authorise the individual listed in section 2. to buy and sell investments on behalf of
my Sippdeal e-sipp (the fund) and to receive information about my account.
The individual listed in section 2 was the representative.
The two other family members and the representative had completed and signed a
Representative instruction form which said, amongst other things:
This form allows you to appoint a Representative to have view only or dealing access to
your account(s).
To act on your behalf a Representative must have an account with AJ Bell Youinvest, this
ensures that we are able to perform all required identity and verification checks prior to
giving a third party access to your account
By signing below you:
authorise AJ Bell Management Limited. Sippdeal Trustees Limited and AJ Bell 
Securities Limited to disclose information about your account to the Account Lead
acknowledge that the Account Lead will be granted either view only or dealing 
access to your accounts. Dealing access will enable the Account Lead to buy and 
sell investments, create and respond to secure messages and make elections for 
Corporate Action options.
AJ Bell was listing on the London Stock Exchange, and it publicised this through a number of 
different communication channels through 2018. However of particular relevance here, this 
included sending a number of e-mails to its clients providing information about the IPO. And 
it included an e-mail sent on 27 November 2018 inviting application for shares in the IPO.
The representative received the e-mail and applied for shares. He was successful in his
application and received the shares. On discussing the matter with other family members at
a later date, it was discovered they hadnt received the same e-mail. And they hadnt applied
for the shares. The share price had increased significantly from its initial offer price.
The representative subsequently complained to AJ Bell. AJ Bell didnt uphold the complaint. 
It said the representatives other family members hadnt registered to receive 
communications regarding the IPO, so no information had been sent to them about it. It said 
that there were multiple platforms used to advertise the IPO, such as AJ Bells webpage, 
press articles and e-mails. It also said service update e-mails would have gone to the 
registered e-mail address on each account. 
The representative referred a complaint to us. One of our investigators considered it. He
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In brief, the investigator said he thought that AJ 
Bell would likely have communicated the IPO offer in line with the preference options 
selected by each individual. He accepted that the other family members hadnt received the 
e-mail about the IPO. But he didnt think the lack of this communication had caused the other 
family members to miss out on the opportunity to buy the shares. He thought it would have 
been reasonable for the representative to have at least enquired about other family 
members option to buy the shares at the time. The investigator didnt recommend that the 
complaint should be upheld.
The representative didnt agree with the investigators findings and the complaint was 
passed to me to consider. 
In my provisional decision I explained that Id considered all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. And 
in doing that, I was required by DISP 3.6.1R to determine a complaint by reference to what 
was, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. DISP 3.6.4R 
required that in considering what was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I took into 
account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and (where appropriate) what I considered to have been good industry practice at 
the relevant time. 
I said in reaching my conclusions Id thought about the legal position, including the 
relationship of the SIPP holders with AJ Bell. And the regulatory position, including the 
Regulators Principles for Business and its Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules.
I said AJ Bell had offered its clients participation in the IPO and the other family members
were eligible to participate on the same basis as the representative. They all had their own
individual accounts and had the same rights to apply as the representative.
I said there had been some confusion about the registered e-mail addresses for all the 
accounts, but I understood (at that time) that all were registered to the same email address 
until at least around June 2018 (and at least four including the representatives after that 
date). AJ Bell had said:Our e-mail system prevents duplicate e-mails being sent, so only one e-mail should have
been sent to the registered address. The e-mails are generic and are not addressed to
specific accounts as, in most cases, separate accounts should have separate e-mail
addresses.
AJ Bell had provided a copy of an e-mail it says it sent to clients in January 2018. It said, 
amongst other things:
Make sure you dont miss out on our IPO notifications.
Due to changes in regulation, we can no longer send you information about initial public
offerings (IPOs)., new share and bond issues unless you opt in to receive them.
How to opt in
The good news is that opting in is easy. All you need to do is log into your account and in the
My account menu, click Communication preferences. Or to jump directly to the page, via
login, click here.
Youll find a list of communication types to pick from. As well as notifications about IPOs,
new share and bond issues, you can choose to receive daily market roundups, test message
updates, Shares magazine content and more besides. Just tick the communications youd
like from us, then press Confirm.
Once youve opted in you can continue to hear about upcoming IPOs, new share and bond
issues as soon as theyre announced. You can update your choices any time you like.
Other e-mails were sent out about the IPO over the following months, and my understanding 
was that only one e-mail had been sent each time to the registered e-mail address. 
The firm had provided a screenshot of the representatives preferences page showing he 
had opted in to receive information about IPOs. It also provided evidence showing that the 
representative updated his preferences on 16 March 2018. And that somebody logged into 
all four of the other family members accounts on 17 March 2018 (within a few minutes of 
each other). I thought given the timings this was likely to have been the representative.
The evidence didnt show that the other family members had updated their preferences to 
receive IPO information  albeit the screenshots of the other family members preferences 
pages showed two of the other family members had amended their preferences in relation to 
Investment insight e-mails but there was no date against it. The firm had said this was 
because the preferences would have been selected when the account was opened.
The representative had also said the other family members were receiving information that
wasnt consistent with AJ Bells explanation about preferences. AJ Bell had said the
information that had been referred to (about Whitbread in particular) was sent to those
members who held shares in that company.
I said I thought the firms explanation of those inconsistencies was reasonable. But I thought, 
in any event, the balance of the evidence suggested it was more likely than not that the 
representative had updated his preferences to receive information about IPOs on 16 March 
2018. And that the other family members hadnt.
AJ Bell had sent another e-mail about the IPO on 27 November 2018 saying:AJ Bell plc Initial Public Offer now open for applications
Apply for shares
Were now accepting applications for the AJ Bell plc IPO. This offer will remain open until
17:00 on Wednesday 5 December 2018.
You can find more information about this offer on our IPOs and new issues page.
The representative received this e-mail and applied for and received the shares. The other 
family members didnt. I considered whether the firm had failed to meet its obligations by 
only sending one (of each) e-mail to the registered e-mail address. 
I said firms had a legal duty to provide a service with reasonable care and skill. COBS 2.1.1
required firms to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests
of its client (COBS 2.1.1R). And Id borne in mind that the Regulators Principles required
firms to, amongst other things:
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate information 
to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
I said when looking at the matter from each individual family members perspective, they 
each had their own account, each was individually subject to charges and each had their 
own individual rights. So I understood the argument that each had an individual right to a 
separate e-mail.
However I said each account holder had given the representative powers to act on
their behalf; to buy and sell investments. Two of the family members specifically appointed a
representative. The forms referred to the representative as the Account Lead and the forms
said Dealing access will enable the Account Lead to buy and sell investments, create and
respond to secure messages and make elections for Corporate Action options. On the two
other accounts the representative had been given authority to buy and sell investments on 
the family members behalf.
The firm had said the e-mails were generic and not addressed to a particular account. I said 
I understood all family members had access to it and so technically could have read the e-
mails. But that in any event, the representative didnt appear to have been merely monitoring
what the other family members were doing with their accounts and taking a backseat role. I 
said the representatives evidence had been consistent about him taking an active role
in the running of the accounts. Hed said that he looked after the other accounts and he                        
 had full and complete authority over them. Hed said the other account holders
authorised the writer of this letter [the representative] to act for them in relation to all
matters regarding their accounts. And this included buying and selling investments and
receiving information about their accounts. Hed also said:
It was noted with considerable interest that numerous corporate and other actions relating
investments were sent to different account holders allowing me to act for and on their
behalf.
I said it was clear that the representative played a significant role in the running of the 
accounts and this was consistent with evidence provided by AJ Bell. It had provided 
evidence to show that the majority of trades on the other family members accounts were 
placed by the representative. I said the representative was taking the lead role. He had full and complete authority
and could act in relation to all matters. I said in my view alerting the representative to the 
IPO acting in this capacity was sufficient for AJ Bell to meet its obligations in relation to other 
family members. 
I said taking all the circumstances into account, I didnt think the firm had failed to act with 
reasonable care or skill. Or that it failed to meet its regulatory obligations as Id set out.
I went on to say that I had also considered the situation on the basis that I was wrong about 
that, and what the position would be if I thought the firm had failed to meet the standards 
required of it as I had described.
The representative had said the authorisation for him to deal with their investments didnt
take away each family members right to make their own investment decisions and act upon
them. Nor did it take away their right to be kept informed on investment developments. He
said AJ Bell had a responsibility to each and every member of the group.
I said I accepted that AJ Bells obligations extended to each and every member of the group.
However in deciding what was fair and reasonable, I thought the matter had to be 
considered in the context of all the circumstances. I said I didnt think it would be reasonable 
to look at the role/rights of the other family members in isolation, without taking into account 
the role of the representative. And he clearly played a significant part in the running of the
accounts.
The representative had said that the other family members had their own separate access to
their accounts and had waited for contact/an invitation to apply for the IPO. I said if the other 
family members were waiting for the contact to subscribe, it was clear that they were
already aware of the IPO by some means. But on 27 November 2018 the representative had
received the e-mail which said that the offer period was only open until 5 December 2018.
The offer period was a tight timeframe. I said if the other family members were waiting for 
contact about subscribing for the shares it would be reasonable to assume they were 
monitoring the e-mail address. And an e-mail about the IPO was sent to that address. 
But I said in any event, the representative had full and complete authority and acted on the 
other family members behalf in buying and selling shares and in other corporate actions. I 
said on receiving his own e-mail invitation, and being told that there was a limited window of 
time to apply, it would have been reasonable for the representative to have alerted the other 
family members to it if he was aware that they were waiting for contact or, if not, thought it 
was something that they might be interested in. I said there was the risk that they didnt read 
the e-mail within the short window of time to apply. I said the representative could also have
checked to see if other e-mails had been sent himself. Even if the other family members
hadnt expressed an interest to the representative he had powers to make investment 
decisions on their behalf. 
Overall I said I thought it was more likely than not that the representative updated his 
preferences and was aware of this requirement. He was aware of the November 2018
offer e-mail being sent. I said at least one party to each account (the lead) was aware
of the position. And the representative had the opportunity to alert the other family members
to the e-mail(s) and or raise the matter with AJ Bell. In my view there was time to do so. I 
said taking all the above into account I wasnt persuaded that it would be fair and reasonable
to hold AJ Bell responsible for the other family members not investing in the IPO.
Complaint Handling
The representative had also complained that AJ Bell had tried to obstruct complaints made to it, failed to issue final response letters, and advise them if still dissatisfied with the 
outcome the matter could be referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
I explained I had no powers to fine or punish firms and that those powers rested with the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. I said complaint handing wasnt, in itself, a 
regulated activity. However I could consider the impact of a firms handling of a complaint on 
a complainant(s) where it was effectively a continuation of the way the firm had carried out 
its business in relation to the financial service/regulated activity being complained about.
I said AJ Bell hadnt alerted the representative/the complainants to their rights of referral to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service when it responded to the complaint in its 16 August 2019
letter. However, the representative had referred the matter to us in any event on 15 February
2020, and the complaint had been investigated. I said this complaint was referred to us and 
we had considered it. So I thought the impact of the firm failing to provide referral rights was 
limited. 
The representative had referred to other examples of where he considered the firm had tried 
to stifle and obstruct complaints. I said whilst I could take the wider circumstances into 
account, in doing so I had to consider the impact in relation to the financial service/regulated 
activity complained about here. As Id said, although the firm hadnt provided referral rights, 
the representative had referred the matter to us in any event. So again, I thought ultimately 
the overall impact was limited.
Accordingly, I said that for the reasons Id set out, my provisional decision was that I didnt 
uphold the complaint.
The representative (on behalf of the complainants) didnt accept my provisional decision. He 
provided a detailed response to it. I asked AJ Bell for some further information. And then 
sent a letter to the representative dated 27 October 2022 enclosing information and 
providing further thoughts on some of the points that the representative had raised. 
Letter dated 27 October 2022
In so far as whats relevant to deciding the merits of the complaint, I said, in summary, that 
the Web Security Audit History documentation that AJ Bell provided recorded that the 
representative had logged into his account on 16 March 2018. I said this was consistent with 
the date recorded on the preferences page for his account and with the finding in my 
provisional decision that it was more likely than not that he had updated his preferences 
about opting into receiving information about IPOs on 16 March 2018.
I said that I understood that all five accounts were linked to the same personal e-mail 
address when the January and March 2018 e-mails were sent. But that when the 
representative changed his personal e-mail address in May 2018, three of the other family 
members registered addresses were changed to that same personal e-mail address, and 
one wasnt. So I understood that after May 2018 three of the other family members 
addresses were linked to the same address as the representatives.
The representative had said each family member had their own individual secure message 
account. I referred to the Web Security Audit History documentation which I said showed 
that, apart from 17 March 2018, it didnt appear that the other family members had logged 
into their accounts during the period the communications (about the IPO) had been sent. So 
I said that even if a communication had been sent by secure message the other family 
members wouldnt necessarily have read it. 
I referred back to my provisional decision where Id said I thought it was likely it was the representative who had logged into other family members accounts on 17 March 2018; 
given the records showed the representative logged into his account at 01.07 and 01.29,  
and someone had logged into the other family members accounts at 01.00, 01.10 01.17 and 
01.22. I said I accepted that the representative wasnt able to change the other family 
members preferences. I said my point was to show the representatives level of involvement 
with the accounts and that he was looking at their accounts a few hours after changing his 
own preferences. 
I enclosed a copy of the SIPPs terms and conditions for the period in question. I referred to 
Clause 14.4 under Communications which provided:
We will send correspondence to You by Secure Message or to the most recent e-mail 
address held on Our Records. It is Your responsibility to ensure that You check Your email 
and the Secure Message area of the Website regularly. We may also contact You by post at 
the most recent postal address held on Our records. You must notify Us promptly of any 
change in Your postal address. 
You/Your is defined as:
The person we have accepted as a customer or as the context admits, a Representative or 
Account Lead acting for such a customer
I said I was satisfied that the accounts terms provided for AJ Bell to send the e-mails about 
registering for its IPO and the subsequent e-mails about it to the personal e-mail address the 
family members accounts were registered to. 
I also referred back to my provisional decision and what Id said about complaint handling.  I 
said to expand on what Id said, the scope of our jurisdiction wasnt unlimited. The type of 
complaints that we were able to consider were outlined in the DISP Rules. DISP 2.3.1 
provided a list of the types of activity that fell within our jurisdiction. We were also able 
consider any ancillary activity carried out by a firm in connection with the activities listed. 
I said I thought the only category that might be relevant here was regulated activities. I said 
complaint handling in itself wasnt a regulated activity. So it wasnt something that I could 
consider in isolation. I said DISP 2.3.1 was a Rule and not guidance, and I was bound by it. 
I said I didnt have jurisdiction to consider the concerns the representative had raised about 
AJ Bells complaint handling on other complaints hed raised with it. I said Id explained in my 
provisional decision that I thought theyd had limited impact (if any) on the representative in 
terms of how AJ Bell had carried out the financial service/regulated activity complained 
about here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complainants representative provided detailed evidence and arguments in response to 
my provisional decision dated 21 July 2022 and to my letter dated 27 October 2022. Ive 
considered them in full, along with all the other evidence and arguments made through the 
case. Ive set out the reasons for my decision below. In doing so I havent responded to all 
the points made  Ive focused on what I think is material in deciding the fair outcome of this 
complaint, and provided my thoughts on some of the other issues raised by the 
representative where I think it is helpful to do so. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, DISP 3.6.1R requires me to determine a complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case. DISP 3.6.4R requires that in doing so, I take into account relevant law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. However that list isnt 
exclusive. Im required to take into account all the circumstances to decide whats fair and 
reasonable.
IPO E-mails
My understanding of the personal e-mail addresses registered to the accounts after around 
May/June 2018 was incorrect when I issued the provisional decision and the letter dated 27 
October 2022. However it was correct for the e-mails sent in January and March 2018.
The evidence that the representative has provided shows that both his e-mail address and 
the late Mrs Es e-mail address remained unchanged from around May/June 2018 (and for 
the remainder of 2018). But the three other family members e-mail address did change. AJ 
Bell has also now confirmed this. 
AJ Bell has said it cannot provide copies of the actual e-mails it says were sent to the 
registered e-mail address as they were sent to its customer base, and so it didnt save each 
e-mail individually. To recap, it says e-mails were sent to the original e-mail address (@ntl) 
in January, March, September, October and two in November 2018.
The representative has provided a copy of the actual March 2018 e-mail. And a copy of the 
27 November 2018 e-mail which said AJ Bell was accepting applications for the IPO. 
The representative has said that from the opening of the account all e-mails sent to the 
registered personal e-mail address were addressed to an individual  the individual was 
named in the e-mail title. The copies of the e-mails hes supplied notifying the account holder 
of something specific to their account (and that a secure message had been sent to it) does 
include the account holders name. However the copy of the 27 November 2018 e-mail 
doesnt appear to be addressed to any particular family member. 
The copy of the March 2018 e-mail also isnt addressed to any particular family member. So 
unless these copies of the March and 27 November 2018 e-mails the representative has 
provided have been amended, they are consistent with AJ Bell saying the e-mails about the 
IPO werent addressed to a particular person. 
As AJ Bell cant provide copies of the actual e-mails it sent, theres no conclusive evidence 
of whether it sent all the e-mails about the IPO to the @ntl address or not. Clearly two of 
them were received, and so were on the appropriate circulation list.  I dont think there is any 
obvious reason why the others wouldnt have been sent when two clearly were. I think, on 
the balance of probabilities, its more likely than not that the other e-mails about the IPO 
were also sent to the @ntl address. 
However, as Ive said above, three of the family members had changed their registered e-
mail address around May/June 2018. We asked AJ Bell to confirm that the IPO e-mails sent 
after this time were sent to that new e-mail address. It said it would check with its marketing 
team, but didnt provide confirmation. I asked it again and said I would assume that the e-
mails werent sent if it didnt confirm the position. AJ Bell subsequently said despite an 
extensive search of its records it couldnt confirm that the e-mails had been sent to the new 
address.
AJ Bell has previously said that it wouldnt have sent e-mails (plural) about the IPO to the 
other family members in any event, as they hadnt updated their preferences to receive this type of information. I understood it was referring to all the e-mails about the IPO (or at least 
those sent post March 2018) rather than just the 27 November 2018 e-mail.
As the representative has pointed out, some of these e-mails prior to 27 November 2018 
said, amongst other things:
Register for updates about AJ Bells initial public offering.
And they went onto say if the member wanted to receive more information about AJ Bells 
IPO they could register for updates. They provided other general account information and 
ended:
Youre receiving this service email because youre a customer of AJ Bell Youinvest. You 
cant opt-out of email like thisbut you can choose which other e-mails you receive from us. 
Just log in to your account and in the My account menu, click Communication   
preferences.
So I agree with the representative that there doesnt appear to be a valid reason why the e-
mails about the IPO sent after June 2018 (27 November 2018 apart) shouldnt have been 
sent to the other family members new registered personal e-mail address. I dont think they 
were likely dependent on their preferences being updated as suggested by AJ Bell.
So to sum up, in my view its more likely than not that all the e-mails about the IPO were sent 
to the @ntl address. And that all family members were registered to that address up until 
around May/June 2018. From that date AJ Bell has said it cant confirm that the e-mails were 
sent to the new registered address for three of the family members. So I have proceeded on 
the basis that its unlikely they were sent. 
Preferences pages
AJ Bell has provided copies of screenshots taken of the representatives preference page 
and information showing when (it says) he updated it. It has also provided copies of the 
other family members preferences pages showing they didnt opt in to receive this type of 
communication. And records showing times and dates the representative and other family 
members logged into their accounts. 
The representative has said there were no dates or timings of when the screenshots of the 
Web Security Audit Histories were taken. He said one of the family members had logged into 
their account on a lot more occasions than the records suggested.  He provided a copy of a 
Statement that had been downloaded on one such occasion by that family member dated 31 
March 2016 at 22.32. The Web Security Audit History didnt record a log-in at that time. The 
representative said some of the timings of the supposed log-ins were suspect - those in the 
early hours of the morning for example.
The representative also questioned some of the other log-in timings for his own account: He 
provided evidence showing his travel arrangements at certain alleged log-in times, details of 
his working arrangements and travel patterns and explained why he didnt have access to 
the internet at a time he allegedly logged-in. He says its highly unlikely he logged-in at some 
of the times recorded. 
In particular the representative strongly disagrees that he logged into his account on 16 
March 2018 at 11.21 am and changed his preferences as suggested by AJ Bells records. 
Hes provided a number of arguments about this point, and questioned whether the evidence 
provided by the firm is genuine  both about this and more widely. The representative said it 
was an unarguable fact that he was working on the morning of 16 March 2018 and the firms claim was wholly untenable and false, based on false, fabricated evidence by AJB.
The representative said the e-mail address recorded for his account on the screenshot of the 
preferences page provided by AJ Bell wasnt in existence on 16 March 2018. He said the 
preferences pages for the other family members accounts were undated and their relevance 
and veracity were in doubt. He said AJ Bell had fabricated a raft of documents but none of 
them were contemporaneous. The representative said AJ Bell had systematically, 
recurringly, and regularly provided fabricated evidence. He provided evidence about 
another issue that hed had with AJ Bell where he considered it had provided recurring 
fraudulent misrepresentations and false statements. He said the Ombudsman Service had 
ignored AJ Bells conduct for a number of years despite it being obvious.
I agree that AJ Bells evidence has been inconsistent and confusing at times; for example 
about the personal e-mail addresses and the Service Update e-mails. I appreciate that 
raises suspicions of impropriety. And it hasnt helped with our investigation. 
However a complaint can be investigated by a number of different complaint handlers, with 
different levels of experience and looking into matters with different degrees of depth and at 
different times. They are looking back at information accumulated over a number of years  
and there can be a lot of it. in my experience it isnt uncommon for a party to provide 
evidence or information that conflicts with other evidence, including what it has itself already 
provided. That is all part and parcel of considering the evidence, treating evidence with care 
and applying appropriate weight to it. 
Whilst I agree there are inconsistencies, Ive seen no conclusive evidence that AJ Bell has 
fabricated evidence. I dont agree that the representative has provided irrefutable proof that 
his preferences page wasnt updated on 16 March 2018. 
The representative has referred to certain information contained in screenshots thats 
inconsistent with the position at the time. As an example he has referred to his e-mail 
address on the screenshot of the preferences pages not being in existence on 16 March 
2018. 
However AJ Bell hasnt said that the screenshots are contemporaneous.  Its not unusual for 
firms to provide current screenshots of its systems showing historic information input into it. I 
dont think the fact that the e-mail address on the copy of the preferences pages is the 
representatives current e-mail address (or at least at the time the screenshot of the 
preferences page was taken) is reason to doubt its authenticity. It merely shows that looking 
at AJ Bells system on the day the screenshot was taken shows the representative updated 
his preferences page on 16 March 2018. AJ Bell had also previously said it had overlayed 
some information onto a screenshot as the website layout didnt allow for a screenshot 
showing both the account holders name and the communication preferences.
AJ Bell has provided a part history of the log-in times for all the accounts and copies of the 
preferences pages. The representative has said AJ Bell wouldnt have known his 
circumstances on 16 and 17 March and so wouldnt have known its log-in times would 
conflict with his circumstances. Whilst I agree that it wouldnt have known his circumstances 
during that day and may have thought he wouldnt recall his exact movements from a few 
years prior, I think more significant is those log-in times in the early hours. 
If AJ Bell was fabricating its history of log-ins I think it would unlikely use times of 3 or 4 am.  
They would be clear red flags and immediately raise suspicions if the account holder never 
logged in at such unusual times (as it did for one of the family members, albeit given the 
representative could log-in to all the accounts it may not have been the particular family 
member who logged in).The consequences for AJ Bell being found to fabricate evidence would be disproportionate 
relative to the amount of money involved here  its a very modest amount for a firm like AJ 
Bell. I accept its a possibility, but I think its unlikely that AJ Bell has fabricated the log-in 
histories (or at least part of  and doing it badly if the times mentioned above are made up) 
and the preferences pages. 
I accept that there are questions that remain unanswered. For example I cant explain why 
one of the family members has downloaded a statement but the system doesnt show she 
logged in at that time; Why some other family members preferences pages were updated to 
receive investment insight e-mails but the date of doing so wasnt recorded on the 
preferences page; Or why, according to the representative, the number of log-ins recorded 
dont reflect the amount of times actually logged in. 
But I think missing information is a different matter to information that is recorded being 
fabricated. I think the particular point at issue here is the evidence surrounding whether the 
representative changed his preferences.
The January 2018 e-mail said, amongst other things:
Make sure you dont miss out on our IPO notifications. 
It said due to changes in regulations it could no longer send information about IPOs, new 
share and bond issues unless the member opted in to receive them. It explained how to opt 
in and update communication preferences.
As the representative said, the March 2018 e-mail didnt ask account holders to take any 
specific action regarding the IPO  it provided information about it and said it would keep the 
account holder updated. However it did end by saying:
Youre receiving this service email because youre a customer of AJ Bell Youinvest. You 
cant opt-out of e-mails like this one, but you can choose which other e-mails you receive 
from us  just log into your account and in the My account menu, click Communication 
preferences.
The 27 November 2018 e-mail said:
You're receiving this email because you're subscribed to the 'Initial public offerings (IPOs) 
and other new share and bond offer notifications' mailing list. You can update your 
preferences at any time here: Manage preferences.
So this e-mail  sent in November 2018 and prior to any complaint being made - specifically 
said it was being sent because the receiver had subscribed for such notifications. 
Therefore in summary:
Im satisfied its more likely than not that the January 2018 IPO e-mail was sent to the 
correct registered e-mail address. It advised that account holders needed to opt-in to 
receive information about IPOs. 
Its not in dispute that AJ Bell sent the 12 March 2018 e-mail to the registered e-mail 
address. Although it didnt ask account holders to do anything specifically about the 
IPO, it did say AJ Bell was preparing an IPO. I accept it said it would keep you 
updated.. But it also advised account holders they could choose which e-mails they 
wanted to receive by updating their preferences. AJ Bell has provided copies of its log-in records showing that the representative 
logged into his account four days later on 16 March 2018. It provided a copy of his 
preferences page and a page showing the date it says it was amended (16 March 
2018).
The representative received the 27 November 2018 IPO offer e-mail, which said he 
had received it because hed subscribed to the IPO notifications mailing list, and it 
also explained he could update his preferences. 
The 27 November 2018 e-mail, the content of which isnt in dispute, is in itself consistent 
with the representative having updated his preferences. In my opinion this and the other 
evidence is all consistent with it being more likely than not that the representative updated 
his preferences and received the 27 November 2018 IPO offer e-mail as a result of doing so. 
I realise that the representative has serious concerns about the evidence the firm has 
provided. Ive thought carefully about making further investigations into the inconsistencies 
he has described in particular about the preferences page and Web Security Audit History 
evidence.  However having done so, I dont think that is necessary in the particular 
circumstances here because ultimately I dont think they would change the outcome of the 
complaint.
As Ive said above, my understanding of the personal e-mail addresses registered to the 
accounts from May/June 2018 has changed. And I accept that the three family members 
wouldnt have been monitoring the @ntl address after June 2018.  AJ Bell cant confirm that 
the IPO e-mails were sent to the new registered e-mail address. So in light of this, I do now 
think that AJ Bell made an error in not sending the Service Update e-mails (in September, 
October and November 2018) to two of the family members who changed their e-mail 
addresses. 
I say two because, as I explained above, two of the accounts were subject to a Third party 
authority form and two a Representative instruction form. These forms were for AJ Bell 
and SIPPdeal accounts and were signed by the representative and family members.
Under the Representatives declarations it said:
I consent to act as a Representative for the customer named above
I agree to act in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions.
And the Third party authority form said:
We both agree to act at all times in accordance with and be bound by the terms and 
conditions applicable to the Fund from time to time and our signatures below are 
confirmation of this.
The terms provided to the representative were dated at the bottom of the document. I think 
the terms are relevant, at least in so far as they provide the basis on which the Third Party 
Authority/Representative relationship was going to work. The representative and other family 
members had clearly made a conscious decision that they wanted the representative to have 
the powers the agreements gave over to him, and they were signed in 2010 and 2016. The 
representative and other family members were eligible for the offer as they were customers 
of AJ Bell Youinvest. 
As I set out above in my 27 October 2022 letter, the relevant terms and conditions said that 
correspondence would be sent to You by Secure Message or to the most recent e-mail address held on Our Records. You was defined as The person we have accepted as a 
customer or as the context admits, a Representative or Account Lead acting for such a 
customer. 
I dont think Secure Message takes primacy  I think AJ Bell was entitled to send the 
information about the IPOs to the most recent e-mail address held on its records.
So I think the January and March 2018 e-mails were correctly sent to all family members. 
Two of the family members accounts specifically had a Representative/Account Lead 
(including one who had changed their registered e-mail address).  So I also think AJ Bell 
sent the post June 2018 e-mails correctly to the registered e-mail address for the lead as 
per the terms.
However two of the family members accounts who had changed their registered e-mail 
address had third party authority forms. They may have been a forerunner of the 
representative forms, but they didnt refer to a representative or lead. So AJ Bell didnt send 
the Service Update e-mails to the most recent e-mail address it had for two of the family 
members (Miss E and Miss E). 
I dont think AJ Bell had the same obligation to send the 27 November 2018 e-mail. It was an 
invitation to apply for shares in the IPO.  AJ Bell was entitled to decide how to operate its 
IPO and ask members to opt in to receiving information about it. AJ Bell has also said that a 
change in General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR) in 2018 meant that it was no longer 
permitted to e-mail customers about IPOs unless they specifically opted in to receive such 
notifications. As I said, I dont think this applied to the Service Update e-mails, but for the 27 
November e-mail this was consistent with opting in, or affirmative action as required by the 
GDPR. 
But that isnt material to AJ Bell not sending the Service Update from June 2018 e-mails to 
the registered email address for Miss E and Miss E. As Ive said, I think that was an error on 
the part of AJ Bell. 
However an error or omission doesnt, in itself, create an entitlement to compensation. It has 
to be shown that the error or omission caused the losses that are being claimed. AJ Bell had 
sent the January 2018 e-mail to both Miss Es registered e-mail address. They hadnt acted 
on the e-mail at that time. And as Ive said, even though the representative wasnt the 
nominated account lead, they had specifically arranged for him to be able to buy and sell 
investments and, in reality, he took the lead in account dealings and arranged the majority of 
investments himself. So I dont think it necessarily follows that they would have changed 
their preferences on receipt of the later service e-mails in any event. And for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont think they would have received the 27 November 2018 offer e-mail unless 
they opted into it. 
That said, I recognise the possibility that Miss E and Miss E (or either of them) might have 
acted differently if later e-mails had been sent to their registered address and they had read 
them. And I dont overlook that any communication failure on AJ Bells part might amount to 
a breach of its contract with the account holder. But, as Ive gone on to explain, I dont think 
this error on AJ Bells part and/or any technical breach of contract is material in deciding the 
overall fair outcome of the complaint and when, as Ive explained, my overriding duty is to 
reach a decision which I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
As I explained in my provisional decision, Id considered the position if I was wrong about AJ 
Bell meeting its obligations. And, as Ive just acknowledged, it seems there was an error on 
AJ Bells part in not sending the Service Update e-mails to the most recent e-mail address it 
had for two of the family members (Miss E and Miss E). I said in deciding what is fair and reasonable, the matter had to be considered in the context of all the circumstances. I said I 
didnt think it would be reasonable to look at the role/rights of the other family members in 
isolation, without taking into account the role of the representative. And my opinion on that 
hasnt changed. 
The representative has said Id acknowledged that all the account holders had their own 
individual rights to participate in the IPO and that AJ Bells obligations extended to each and 
every member of the group. So in effect my findings werent consistent with that position. 
I think it was likely that the January and March 2018 e-mails were sent to the correct 
registered address. So I think all the family members had the opportunity to register/opt in 
following their receipt (in particular following the January 2018 e-mail).
I understand the representatives argument about individual rights and AJ Bell having 
obligations to every family member. I fully accept that all the family members had their own 
rights. But I think in looking at if they were, in effect, unable to exercise certain rights 
because of what AJ Bell did or didnt do, then the wider circumstances should be taken into 
account and it should be considered in context.
Firstly, all the family members had made a conscious decision to arrange for the 
representative to act on their behalf. The representative had wide ranging powers; as he has 
acknowledged he  had full and complete authority and could act for them in relation to 
all matters regarding the accounts. This included buying and selling investments and 
receiving information. 
And secondly, that the reality of the situation was that the representative played the lead 
role; he not only had the right to buy and sell, he actively used that right and placed the 
majority of trades on the other family members accounts. 
I dont think in adopting that approach it means Im disregarding the fact that the family 
members had their own rights. Rather Im taking those rights into account in a way which is 
consistent with the overall circumstances and my obligation to reach a decision which is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.  
Ultimately theres no dispute that the representative was alerted to the IPO. And he 
exercised his right to buy shares. 
So the fact of the matter is that AJ Bell alerted the person who, in reality, took the lead in 
operating the accounts, to the opportunity of buying shares in its IPO. On receipt of the 27 
November 2018 e-mail the representative could have contacted AJ Bell to arrange to be able 
to buy shares on behalf of the other family members himself, or could have contacted the 
other family members to alert them of the opportunity, particularly, as I said, in the context of 
the tight timeframe to apply. 
Ive taken into account the pivotal role played by the representative; the majority of the 
dealing interactions between the other family members accounts and AJ Bell were through 
the representative. I dont think it would be fair to, in effect, ignore that in considering what 
happened about the IPO and the fact that the family members didnt get to take it up. 
So taking all this into account and for the reasons outlined above, in my opinion, it wouldnt 
be fair and reasonable to hold AJ Bell responsible for the other family members not investing 
in the IPO.
Complaint HandlingI explained my position on the issues the representative had raised about complaint handling 
in relation to this complaint and others in my provisional decision and letter dated 27 October 
2022. I dont think I can add anything more to the explanation I provided. I dont have 
jurisdiction to consider the wider complaints about stifling and obstruction of other complaints 
- that complaint isnt about a regulated activity. The representative or other family members 
are free to make complaints to the firm and refer them to us as they see fit. Whether we 
have jurisdiction to consider them will depend on the particular facts of each complaint. 
The representative has referred to my obligations under the Anti-Fraud and Anti- Bribery 
policy of FOS. I have taken this into account, however the policy relates to potential fraud or 
bribery in relation to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Ive taken the representatives 
claims about AJ Bell fabricating evidence and deliberately trying to stifle and obstruct 
complaints seriously and passed those concerns upwards for consideration. They may be 
passed onto the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) if its thought appropriate to do so, albeit 
the representative can contact the FCA directly about them if he wishes.
The representative has also referred to my apparent bias in the decision. Im not aware that I 
have any connection with any of the parties involved in the complaint, any conflict of interest 
or motivation for bias. As Ive acknowledged, some aspects of the evidence from AJ Bell 
have been unsatisfactory. But Ive explained that I have taken that into account. Ive made 
my decision impartially on the basis of what, in my opinion, is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E, Miss E 
and Mr E and the estate of Mrs E to accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman