DRN-3709282
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with advice HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) gave them when they 
took out an additional loan alongside their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M held a fixed rate repayment mortgage and additional loan with HSBC, which 
they were tied into until September 2022. 
Mr and Mrs M approached HSBC to arrange another loan in August 2019, for home 
improvements. Mr and Mrs M say they informed HSBC they ideally wanted the product to 
mature around the same time as their existing loans but were quoted for a range of terms. 
They decided to take a five-year fixed rate product, which would mature around two years 
after their existing products. 
Mr and Mrs M say they werent informed they wouldnt be able to re-mortgage the first two 
loans with another provider, separately from the third loan. They say that, if they had known 
this, they would have taken the three-year fixed rate product instead of the five-year. Mr and 
Mrs M are unhappy they will have to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) on the third 
loan if they want to secure competitive rates for the first two loans elsewhere. 
HSBC looked into Mr and Mrs Ms concerns, but it said Mr and Mrs M were given the option 
to take a three-year fixed rate if they wanted to. They were also made aware they would 
need to pay an ERC if they chose to end their fixed rate loan early. The adviser wasnt made 
aware they intended on re-mortgaging with another provider  had they been aware, they 
could have told them it wouldnt be possible to split the loans between different lenders. 
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into their concerns, but they didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong. 
As Mr and Mrs M disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld, and Ill explain 
why.
Mr and Mrs M feel that because advice was given, they ought to have been made aware the 
loans could not be split between different lenders at a later date. They also say, the adviser 
specifically mentioned that the third loan could be independent of the others. 
Ive listened to the call Mrs M had with the adviser on 19 August 2019. The adviser 
explained that she worked for HSBC  that means she couldnt give advice based on other 
lenders. So, the advice given was only on the products HSBC could offer and I wouldnt 
have expected the adviser to explain that if Mr and Mrs M wanted to approach a different 
lender, they would need to do this on all three loans at the same time. 
If Mr and Mrs M had approached an independent broker, I may have expected them to have 
explained this. But I wouldnt have expected an HSBC adviser to mention it unless prompted 
to by the comments Mrs M made. If Mrs M had specifically asked about what would happen 
if they wanted to approach a different lender later on, then I would more likely than not agree 
that the adviser should have mentioned all three products would need to be remortgaged at 
once. But Mrs M didnt give any indication that this was something they might consider. And 
when the adviser referred to the products as being independent from each other, this was in 
reference to the maturity dates of the loans. 
Mrs M said her idea was for all three products to end around the same time. The adviser 
took this on board and told Mrs M she could consider a three-year option, which would mean 
the products would end within three months of each other. Mrs M confirmed thats what 
shed ideally like to do. But she went on to say she would consider a 10-year fixed rate 
because she was nervous about what might happen to interest rates due to other 
circumstances in the United Kingdom at the time. 
As a result, the adviser provided Mrs M with quotes for 3, 5, and 10-year fixed rates as well 
as quotes with a different loan to value (LTV). The adviser mentioned that there wasnt 
much difference between the 3 and 5 year and that it really comes down to whether Mr and 
Mrs M want to keep the maturity dates around the same, or whether they want the slightly 
lower rate. The adviser went on to say that Mr and Mrs M could come back and look at the 
other two rates again when theyre due to mature. There was no mention from Mrs M of any 
desire to remortgage with a different lender. And I think it was clear the adviser was referring 
to HSBC when they said come back.
In addition, the adviser explained there were three key things with fixed rates to bear in 
mind, one of them being the ERC and that this would need to be paid if Mr and Mrs M ended 
their agreement early. The adviser referred to all three accounts a few times, suggesting that 
the lending was linked in some way. They then advised Mrs M to go away and think about 
what would work best for them. Mrs M spoke to the adviser again the next day and 
confirmed that they had decided to go for the five-year fixed rate at a LTV of 85%.
A mortgage offer was sent to Mr and Mrs M to confirm the details. Looking at the cover 
letter, under the heading If you already have an HSBC mortgage on the property, it clearly 
explained that if Mr and Mrs M held an existing mortgage with HSBC, that is secured on the 
property, any part of that mortgage would also be included within the offer. And that the 
loans would continue to be subject to the HSBC Mortgage Loan Terms and Conditions 
and/or, the HSBC Mortgage Deed Conditions that applied at the time of original offer. It went 
on to explain that HSBC had made the offer on the basis it would hold a first charge over the 
property. 
I think this made it clear that although the products were separate from each other in terms 
of maturity dates and other variables, the loans were all linked, and HSBC would hold a first 
charge on all three the loans. So, it would be difficult for Mr and Mrs M to remortgage two of 
the loans and not the other, as another lender would more likely than not want a first charge 
itself. While HSBC retained the first charge for the third loan  that would not be possible.So, in order for Mr and Mrs M to re-mortgage two of their loans with another lender, they 
would need to include the third loan as well. And the only way to do this before the third loan 
matured would be to pay the ERC. The mortgage offer Mr and Mrs M signed clearly sets out 
that an ERC would be payable if the mortgage was redeemed early and this was confirmed 
in the call Mrs M had with the adviser. 
If Mr and Mrs M wanted to avoid paying an ERC they still had choices available to them. 
They could have chosen to keep their loans with HSBC, but they preferred the lower rates 
offered elsewhere. So, it was their choice whether to remain with HSBC and apply for new 
products when their first two loans matured, or whether to move all of their lending 
elsewhere. If Mr and Mrs M decided it worked out better for them to move all of their loans to 
a different lender, that was their choice and HSBC would not be responsible for the ERC. I 
also wouldnt expect it to change the maturity date of the third loan as the details of it were 
clearly set out in the mortgage offer that Mr and Mrs M agreed to.
Considering everything, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong. Mr and Mrs M were aware 
they would have to pay an ERC if they ended their fixed rate agreement early. They were 
given the option to take a product that would mature around the same time as their existing 
loans, but they chose to go with a lower rate, which meant they were committed for five 
years. 
HSBCs adviser could only give advice in relation to HSBC products and wasnt given any 
reason to suspect Mr and Mrs M were considering moving their loans away from HSBC. The 
mortgage offer documents alerted Mr and Mrs M to the fact it would hold a first charge over 
all three loans, and I dont think HSBC was obligated to explain this further in relation to 
other providers needs. So, I havent seen any reason HSBC should refund the charge or 
alter the product Mr and Mrs M agreed to.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman