DRN-1455664
 
Complaint
Mr Gs complaint is that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) hasnt accepted a claim he made 
under his travel insurance policy. All references to Aviva in this decision include the agents it 
has appointed to work on its behalf.
Background
Mr G was travelling with his brother who had difficulty passing through security checks at the 
airport. Due to the delays Mr Gs brother missed his flight. 
Mr G booked new flights for his brother at an additional expense and attempted to make a 
claim through his travel insurance to recover the cost.
Aviva considered Mr Gs claim and declined it. It said the circumstances were not something 
Mr Gs policy covered, and that the policy would not extend to cover Mr Gs brother.
Our investigator considered Mr Gs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Having 
looked through the insurance policy document associated with Mr Gs travel insurance, he 
was unable to find any cover for the circumstances Mr G had described.
Mr G didnt agree and thought the decision to decline his claim was unfair. So, this complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint.
Travel insurance, like all types of insurance, wont cover every situation. So, when 
considering this complaint, I have looked at the terms and conditions of the policy Mr G held.
The policy outlines the level of cover Mr G had and what it would pay under each section. 
Having read through the document I have been unable to find any section that would cover 
the circumstances Mr G has described. In addition to this, Mr Gs brother wasnt covered 
under Mr Gs policy, so I wouldn't expect the insurer to cover costs relating to his additional 
travel.
I understand Mr G has paid out a considerable sum for his brothers additional flight. But as 
his policy like , if not all other travel insurance policies, does not cover these circumstances I 
think Aviva acted fairly in declining his claim.
My final decision My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 20 
May 2020.
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman