DRN-1466313
Complaint
Mrs B says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
Background
I sent Mrs B and AXA a provisional decision on 29 November 2019 to explain why I wasnt 
intending to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
When selling the PPI, AXA had to make it clear to Mrs B that she had a choice about it. But 
Mrs B says she didnt know the PPI had been added.
AXA has sent us a copy of Mrs B application form for the store card. This included a section 
on PPI with a box to be ticked and a space for Mrs B to sign if she wanted to take it out. And 
the box has been ticked and Mrs B has signed in the space.
Based on this I think AXA did make it clear to Mrs B that she had a choice about the PPI. 
And I think Mrs B chose to take it, knowing she didnt have to.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B, so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure she got the information she needed to decide if the PPI was right for 
her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But the policy couldve paid out for longer than Mrs B told us she wouldve been 
entitled to sick pay. And it wouldve meant she didnt need to rely on her family or any 
savings she had to make her repayments if she wasnt earning. So the PPI would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong. And it also looks like it was affordable.
Mrs B has says that she was suffering from a medical condition at the time of the sale. But 
AXA has sent us a copy of a questionnaire Mrs B completed as part of this complaint in 
which she said the condition had always been well controlled with medication. So, based on 
this, the type of condition Mrs B had and the fact that shed been living with it for over 30 
years at the sale, I think its likely Mrs B would still have bought the policy if shed been told 
this condition wouldnt be covered. It also doesnt look like Mrs B was affected by any of the 
other exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.
So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mrs B off taking it out.
I said Id consider anything further Mrs B and AXA sent in.
 
 
My findingsIve again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Neither Mrs B nor AXA has sent in anything further for me to consider. So I still think the 
conclusions I set out in my provisional decision are correct and I dont think this complaint 
should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2020.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman