DRN-3804211
The complaint
Mr K complains Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited have unfairly declined his 
Bicycle Insurance claim.
All references to Red Sands also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr K Ive considered everything hes said very carefully. This includes what 
hes said in response to our investigator.
However, Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the parties involved. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues 
here.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Having reviewed everything, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for 
these reasons:
The policy says it requires outbuilding doors to be securely locked by a minimum five 
lever Mortice or Chubb deadlock. It also says it requires proven forcible or violent 
entry to the home for claims relating to theft. 
Mr Ks lock met the security requirements of the policy, but Ive not seen any 
evidence that shows it was damaged  so Im not persuaded there was proven 
forcible or violent entry. And Id reasonably expect there to be if violent or forcible 
entry was used to get into the Garage where the Bike was being stored.
I acknowledge Mr K had other locking mechanisms in place, but having considered 
these, they dont meet the security requirements set out in the policy.
Ive considered Mr Ks comments he was assured of a positive outcome in his claim 
by Red Sands but having listened to calls between it and Mr K, Ive not heard 
anything to persuade me Red Sands said this.
So, for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman