DRN-3820130
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car acquired with finance from {PSA Finance UK Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr C was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
PSA. At the point of supply the car was around 3 years old and had covered around 50,500 
miles. The price of the car was £7,999.
In March 2022 the car lost power and was recovered to a local garage. It advised that the 
engine had lost compression in all three cylinders and that the valves and pistons were 
damaged. The garage said the engine needed to be replaced.
Mr C contacted PSA, who arranged an independent inspection of the car. The inspection 
report concluded that the cars servicing schedule requirements hadnt been maintained in 
relation to checking the timing belt following a safety recall issued by the manufacturer in 
January 2021, and that the engine had failed due to premature wear of the timing belt 
causing misfiring of the engine where the pistons made contact with the valves resulting in 
catastrophic engine damage. The inspector was of the opinion that the car wouldve been of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Based on the report, PSA didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C wasnt happy with the response and brought his complaint to this service. He wants to 
reject the car.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
because the timing belt wasnt sufficiently durable. He didnt think that a reasonable person 
would expect the timing belt to fail prematurely at 66,000 miles and after 6 years, when the 
service schedule indicated replacement of the timing belt at 112,000 miles or after 10 years.
PSA didnt agree. It obtained further comments from the inspecting engineer and asserted 
that the servicing garage hadnt carried out the servicing of the car with reasonable care and 
skill because it had failed to identify the correct servicing requirements including checking 
the timing belt. The engineer said that the spark plugs and air filter should have been 
replaced at the 48 months service and the fact that this hadnt occurred could be related to 
the premature failure of the timing belt. The engineer also said that the servicing invoices 
didnt provide enough detail to confirm whether the engine oil used in the services met the 
manufacturers requirements. PSA said that if the services had been carried out correctly, the 
timing belt wouldnt have filed and damaged the engine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. Satisfactory quality includes fitness for 
purpose, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply and its generally 
up to the business to put things right. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the 
fault. If the repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months, the 
burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when supplied.
In this case, at the point of supply, the car was around 3 years old and had covered around 
50,500 miles. Id expect a second hand car to have a degree of wear and tear and to require 
more repairs and maintenance than, say, a brand new car.
Ive reviewed all the available information. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the car 
had a fault. This is because the garage to which the car was recovered after it broke down 
confirmed that the engine had suffered catastrophic failure. The independent report also 
confirmed this.
Ive gone on to consider whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
An independent report can help to determine whether a car was of satisfactory quality when 
supplied. In this case, the car was inspected in May 2022. At the time of inspection, the car 
had a recorded mileage of 66,601 miles. So, it had travelled around 16,000 miles since the 
pint of supply. The report concluded that the engine had filed because of premature wear of 
the timing belt. The report also says that the cars servicing schedule hadnt been 
maintained.
Ive looked at the cars service manual. This says that the timing belt should be replaced 
every 112,000 miles or 10 years.
In this case, the car had only covered around 66,000 miles and war around 6 years old. So it 
appears that the timing belt failed prematurely. This is relevant because durability is a factor 
in considering whether a car is of satisfactory quality.
Ive gone on to consider whether there was an external reason for the timing belt failing 
prematurely.
Theres no evidence that Mr C was driving the car in subnormal conditions, or that he 
otherwise drove the car in such a way as would impact on the durability of the timing belt.
The inspection report states that the cars servicing requirements havent been met. PSA has 
said that a safety recall issued in 2021 wasnt implemented.
Ive looked at the service history of the car. Mr C used a local garage for servicing. The car 
was last serviced in January 2022, around 3 months before it broke down. The previous 
service to that was carried out in December 2020. On each occasion, I can see that the oil 
filter was replaced, and the oil changed. I havent seen anything to suggest that the servicing 
of the car wasnt carried out with reasonable care and skill.
PSA has said that the servicing garage failed to check the timing belt at every service. Whilst 
I can see that there is an outstanding recall for the timing belt, theres no evidence that the servicing garage failed to check the timing belt when they serviced the car, or that the failure 
to implement the outstanding recall led to the premature failure of the timing belt.
PSA has also said that the spark plugs and air filter wasnt replaced at the December 2020 
service and that the engine oil doesnt meet the manufacturers requirements. This isnt 
something which was discussed in the independent report and there no evidence that either 
of these two components were related to the premature failure of the timing belt.
Having considered all of the available evidence, Im not persuaded that the timing belt failed 
prematurely because of a lack of servicing. I dont think the timing belt was durable, and it 
follows that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Putting things right
The evidence Ive seen suggests that the cost of repairing the car is more than the value of 
the car. For this reason, I dont think its fair to ask PSA to arrange repairs. Mr C should be 
allowed to reject the car.
Mr C hasnt been able to use the car since 28 March 2022 because of the engine failure. I 
dont think its fair to expect Mr C to make payments for a car he isnt able to use. So Im 
asking PSA to refund all monthly payments made by Mr C since 28 March 2022.
Its clear that Mr C has been caused significant distress and inconvenience as a result of 
being supplied with a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality. Hes had to make alternative 
travel arrangements and find a replacement car. I think its fair to ask PSA to pay 
compensation to Mr C for the inconvenience hes suffered. I also think its fair to ask PSA to 
refund the costs of the diagnostic report obtained by Mr C.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. PSA Finance UK Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr C
Refund the deposit of £2000
Refund all payments made under the agreement since 28 March 2022 until the date of 
settlement
Refund the costs of the diagnostic report in the sum of £75
Pay 8% simple interest on all sums refunded from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Pay £150 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman