DRN-3931415
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited didnt pay their 
claim for a faulty extractor fan under their home emergency and breakdown policy.
Ill refer to all third parties and representatives as RSA for the purposes of this decision.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M made a claim and RSA agreed to inspect the damage and validate the claim. 
Once inspection had taken place RSA declined to cover the extractor fan. RSA said the 
extractor fan wasnt part of the permanent electrical wiring system. Mr and Mrs M didnt 
accept this and brought a complaint on to this service. Mr and Mrs M said they wanted the 
extractor replaced and restored to the pre-claim condition. Mr and Mrs M also said they 
wanted a full return of the premium, compensation, an acknowledgement of the error, and an 
undertaking to resolve the confusion in the scope of the policy.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the policy didnt cover the extractor fan 
as it didnt form part of the electrical wiring system. Although our investigator accepted that 
Mr and Mrs M tried to take out the best policy cover they could get he said there were 
always going to be certain things that werent covered.
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept this and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I dont think the sale of the policy was carried out by RSA. So, any issue about the 
way the policy was sold, the premiums, payments taken from Mr and Mrs Ms credit card, 
and the cover they said they should have been provided isnt part of this complaint as RSA 
didnt sell it. Our investigator will discuss these issues separately with Mr and Mrs M.
Regarding the complaint about the claim Mr and Mrs M said when they initially contacted 
RSA it accepted the claim. Mr and Mrs M didnt think it was fair for RSA to then decline it 
after it had inspected the damage. Mr and Mrs M said this policy provides for non-
emergency cover. Mr and Mrs M said this was a non-emergency claim and the claim was 
initially accepted by RSA on this basis.
Mr and Mrs M said it was obvious that the extractor fan was to blame from the start, but RSA 
said it still required a qualified electrician to assess the problem. Mr and Mrs M said the 
bathroom extractor fan is part of the permanent wiring system and said that the RSA 
inspection report confirmed this.
Mr and Mrs M said the extractor fan is hard-wired rather than plugged in. RSA said it agreed 
and accepted that the fan is hard-wired. But it maintained that the fan is an appliance and all 
appliances regardless of how they are fitted/powered are excluded.
RSA referred to the policy which states:
Section D. Internal Electricity
What we cover:
We will assist you to repair or replace any item or system after your supply meter which 
causes the breakdown or failure of the permanent domestic electrical wiring system 
supplying electrical power to your home.
RSA said that in line with the wording the extractor fan wasnt part of your permanent 
domestic electrical wiring system.
RSA also said: Within your policy booklet on page 12 that "We do not cover: 2. Domestic 
appliances or electrical items with a plug."
RSA said if the electrics were causing the issue it would have been covered, however 
engineer advised it was the extractor fan which is classed as an appliance and that is why it 
would not be covered under the policy to replace.
RSA said the reported fault was that the extractor fan wouldnt turn off at the switch. The 
only way to isolate it was to turn off the entire electrical circuit. The report stated the 
humidistat part of the extractor fan was faulty and needed to be replaced. As this was a fault 
with the appliance and not the wiring system, the electrician was able to isolate the 
appliance to ensure the circuit could still be used to power all other sockets in the 
household.
The electrician recommended for a permanent repair Replace fan and transformer. RSA 
state that the fan and transformer are parts in the extractor fan and therefore part of the 
appliance., It concluded it wouldnt be able to cover any further work due to the policy 
exclusion. RSA said the wording made it clear Whilst this does note any electrical items with 
a plug are excluded, it also excludes domestic appliances without the caveat of them being 
plugged in. A similar example we put to claimants is an electric oven, which are often hard-
wired in rather than plugged, but are still an appliance. I think that explains the RSA position 
well.
RSA got the opinion of the inspecting electrician on whether the fan was an appliance or not. 
The electrician confirmed the fan is an appliance. RSA also reviewed material published by 
NIC EIC (electrical industry experts) regarding ventilation appliances. This material 
specifically listed an extractor fan as an example of a domestic ventilation appliance.
I understand the point Mr and Mrs M is making. But Ive got to decide whether RSA has 
acted reasonably and fairly when it declined to pay for the replacement of the extractor fan. 
So, I think it was fair and reasonable for RSA to decline. In this case and based on the 
evidence provided I think RSA has acted in line with the policy wording and the exclusion.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.I make no award against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman