DRN-3751141
The complaint
Mr P complains about the advice Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limiteds appointed 
representative gave to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational 
pension scheme to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
It was Quilters appointed representative, rather than Quilter itself, which gave Mr P advice. 
But, as Quilter is responsible for the appointed representatives actions I will refer to it 
throughout this decision. 
Professional representatives have helped Mr P to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Ps.
What happened
Mr P was introduced to Quilter towards the end of 2004 with a view to discussing his pension 
options. He met with it twice, in December 2004 and January 2005. It gathered information 
about the benefits available to Mr P under the DB scheme. That information showed that 
Mr Ps DB fund had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £29,564. And, assuming the 
scheme was 100% funded, he would be entitled to a full pension of £3,917 a year at the 
schemes retirement age of 62. But, the schemes administrators estimated that because the 
scheme was underfunded it would only pay between 75% to 85% of that amount. Quilter 
obtained an illustration from a named personal pension provider. That showed what a 
personal pension might pay Mr P if he transferred his pension funds from the DB scheme 
and invested those in the named personal pension. 
Quilter recorded that Mr Ps attitude to risk was medium. It said the growth rate required 
(the critical yield) to match the benefits from the DB scheme was less than 5%.
Quilter recommended that Mr P transfer his DB benefits to a named personal pension. Mr P 
signed the forms to go ahead with the transfer on 12 January 2005. The following day, 
13 January 2005, Quilter wrote to Mr P setting out the reasons for its recommendation. 
Amongst other things it said:
Mr Ps DB scheme was underfunded and it would only pay him between 75% and 
85% of his full pension entitlement. But that amount could be subject to further 
reductions.
Investing in a personal pension should see a growth rate that would exceed the 
benefits from the DB scheme.
By accepting Quilters recommendation Mr P acknowledged he was giving up a level 
of guarantee from his DB scheme. But the reduction in benefits from that scheme 
wasnt known and was likely to increase. 
The death benefits from the personal pension were better than under the DB 
scheme.
The DB scheme administrators paid £29,564 to Mr Ps personal pension plan on 
17 January 2005.
In March 2010 the DB scheme administrators wrote to Mr Ps personal pension provider. 
The administrators said that during the winding up of the DB scheme the Trustees had 
established that the fund was not fully equalised. It said Mr P was entitled to a further 
payment of around £3,598. The administrators paid that sum into Mr Ps personal pension.
Mr P complained to Quilter in 2021 about the suitability of the transfer advice. Amongst other 
things he said:
Quilter didnt discuss the benefits Mr P would be giving up by transferring.
It didnt provide a report or analysis and as such Mr P wasnt in a position to make an 
informed decision.
The benefits from his personal pension were based on investment performance and 
didn't match his profile as a cautious investor.
He wasn't aware that he was giving up a guaranteed pension and still thought it 
would be guaranteed. 
Quilter didnt explain the risks involved in investing in a personal pension.
It didnt act in line with the regulators principles and guidance.
Quilter replied. It said it couldnt find any evidence that it had given advice to Mr P.
Mr P brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She sent Quilter 
evidence that it had given Mr P transfer advice. Quilter then acknowledged that it had given 
Mr P advice to transfer his pension. But it said it thought he had brought his complaint 
outside of the allowable timescales for doing so. 
Our investigator provided her analysis of Mr Ps complaint. First the investigator said she 
believed that Mr P had brought his complaint in time. She said shed seen no evidence that 
Mr P should have brought his complaint sooner. Second the investigator looked into the 
merits of Mr Ps complaint. Amongst other things our investigator said:
Quilter didnt obtain a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report or complete a full 
fact-find. As such she said Quilter hadn't followed the regulators guidance for making 
a personal recommendation. 
Quilter recorded Mr Ps attitude to risk as medium and there was no information at 
the time to suggest that was incorrect. 
The projected growth rates at the time (known as the discount rate) and Mr Ps 
medium attitude to risk indicated that there was a realistic prospect of Mr P achieving 
higher benefits by transferring to a personal pension than he would receive from the 
DB scheme. 
The former employer was in liquidation and pension benefits would likely be reduced 
by 25%.
At that time the Government hadn't yet set up the Financial Assistance Scheme 
(FAS)1. And there was uncertainty about whether Mr Ps DB scheme would enter the 
FAS.
The DB scheme did enter the FAS in 2013 but Quilter couldn't have known that 
would happen at the time of its advice in 2005.
Overall, our investigator thought Quilters advice to transfer was suitable.
1 The FAS is a Government funded scheme which provides financial assistance to members of certain 
defined benefit pension schemes. Generally eligible members had lost all or part of their pension 
following their scheme winding up due to being underfunded, between 1 January 1997 and 6 April 
2005. FAS began operating in September 2005.Mr P didnt agree with our investigators assessment of the complaint. Amongst other things 
he said:
The regulators guidance at the time was that advising firms should start by assuming 
that transferring from a DB scheme was unsuitable.
Mr Ps full benefits weren't transferred and as such he had benefits both in a 
personal pension and also from the FAS and our investigator didnt consider this.
Quilter didnt advise Mr P that his full benefits would not be transferred or what would 
happen with the remaining funds.
The former employer was discussing matters with FAS and Quilter should have 
deferred giving advice until the issue was clear.
Given Quilters failings in the advice process Mr P wasnt given the opportunity to 
make an informed decision. He said that he was simply presented with a sign and 
transfer option.
He doesn't agree with Quilters crude growth rate. He said the personal pension 
illustration shows Quilters rates are entirely incorrect.
Quilters comments that the benefits from a personal pension could be higher is 
incorrect and misleading. 
While the DB scheme was in deficit and the company in difficulty, transferring 
benefits wouldnt protect Mr P from the effects of this. 
Mr P said he would send us additional information about his FAS benefits. 
Our investigator replied. She said, amongst other things:
Even if Quilter had done everything it should have done she believed Mr P would 
have gone ahead with the transfer.
Quilter wouldnt have been aware that additional benefits would become available at 
a later date. The DB scheme administrators letter setting out the extra benefits 
wasnt sent until 2010. And Quilter used the full transfer figures provided by the 
administrators in 2004. She said she would consider any further evidence about the 
FAS entitlements if that was held. 
FAS didnt begin operating until September 2005 and the DB scheme didnt enter the 
FAS until 2013. So, it seemed reasonable for the transfer to go ahead at the time of 
the advice rather than waiting for the situation with FAS to become clearer. 
Mr P didnt send us any further information about the FAS benefits. But as he didnt agree 
with our investigators assessment of the complaint it was referred to me 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has made a number of detailed points when bringing this complaint. I've considered 
everything hes said carefully. But in this decision I dont intend to address each and every 
point raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key issues at the heart of Mr Ps 
complaint and the reasons for my decision.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business and the Code of Business rulebook 
(COB). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Quilter's actions here.
In 2005 the regulators guidance, set out in its rulebook (COB - 5.3.29) was that:
When advising a customer who is, or is eligible to be, an active member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether he should opt out or transfer, a firm should:
(a) start by assuming it will not be suitable, and
(b) only then consider it to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate on the evidence available 
at the time that it is in the customer's best interests.
Was Quilters advice suitable?
Quilter met with Mr P twice. And on the second occasion, on 12 January 2005, Mr P signed 
documents to apply to transfer his DB scheme funds to a personal pension. But Quilter 
hasnt kept the records I would have expected to see to show what it discussed with Mr P 
and whether or not it met all of its regulatory requirements.
Quilter did gather details from Mr Ps DB scheme about his DB benefit entitlements. It also 
assessed that Mr P had a medium attitude to risk, although it hasn't documented how it 
arrived at that assessment. But I would have also expected it to gather details of Mr Ps 
financial circumstances and to obtain a TVAS report. But theres no evidence it did that. I 
also would have expected Quilter to have compared the benefits available between the 
named personal pension and the DB scheme. Quilter did provide Mr P with a projected 
income illustration from the named personal pension provider. But I can't see that it gave 
Mr P a side-by-side comparison of the relevant benefits of both the DB scheme and the 
personal pension. And in order to advise Mr P clearly, I think it needed to do that. 
That said Ive seen that Quilter estimated that the critical yield required to match the benefits 
from the DB scheme was around 5%. Given that it didnt obtain a full TVAS its not clear how 
it arrived at that figure. But, looking at the sums involved, and the fact that Mr Ps DB 
benefits were thought to be reduced by around 25% because of the underfunding of the 
scheme, that critical yield figure seems reasonable. I note that Mr P said he didnt agree with 
Quilters crude estimate. But he hasn't shown me any evidence that indicates the figure 
wasnt broadly accurate. So I think its estimated critical yield of 5% was reasonable.
Further, at the time that Quilter advised Mr P the regulator was publishing discount rates 
(that is the likely investment growth rates) to enable advising firms to calculate loss 
assessments in an industry wide pensions review. And I consider those discount rates 
provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably 
achievable when Quilter gave its advice. Quilter estimated the critical yield required to match 
the occupational pension at retirement was around 5% a year. This compares with the 
discount rate of 7.6% a year for 21 years to retirement.
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle 
projection rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5%. I've taken this into account, along with 
the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr P's attitude to risk and also the term to 
retirement. I think Mr P was likely to receive benefits of a higher overall value than the DB 
scheme at retirement as a result of investing in line with his medium attitude to risk. And on 
the basis of the financial information available at the time, the transfer was likely to have 
seemed an attractive prospect to Mr P. Ive noted Mr Ps comments that the personal pension illustration showed that Quilters 
estimated growth rates were entirely incorrect. But I don't agree. Quilter estimated that the 
critical yield was around 5% and that Mr Ps personal pension would grow at 7% a year. The 
personal pension illustration shows Mr Ps expected yearly pension at age 62. It gives 
figures based on the regulators low, middle and high projected growth rates of 5%, 7% and 
9% respectively. Its worth noting that when showing those projected figures, the illustration 
doesn't give a single figure but instead gives the amounts in whats sometimes referred to as 
slices (because of changing pensions rules over time). So the projected yearly pension 
income is the amount when each of those slices is added together. And, when those sums 
are added together the illustration shows that the personal pension would pay him £3,077 a 
year at a growth rate of 5% and £5,660 at a 7% growth rate.
Further the DB administrators said that Mr Ps yearly pension income would be reduced from 
between 25% to 15% depending on the funding position of the scheme. That means his 
yearly pension from the DB scheme was expected to be somewhere between £2,937 and 
£3,329. And those figures support Quilters estimate of a critical yield of around 5% to match 
the income from the DB scheme.
Further, given the assets it was invested in the personal pension was expected to perform at 
the regulators middle projected rate of 7% a year. And the illustration shows that, at that 
level, it would pay Mr P a yearly pension of around £5,660. That sum is significantly more 
than his expected income from the DB scheme. And that figure is based on a growth rate 
that is slightly below the discount rate of 7.6% at the time. So I don't think its fair to say that 
Quilters growth rate was entirely incorrect or misleading.
Its notable that Mr P signed the forms applying for the transfer the day before Quilter sent 
him its letter setting out the reasons for its recommendation. So, as well as not gathering full 
information about Mr Ps circumstances or obtaining a TVAS, its also apparent that Quilter 
was prepared to go ahead with its recommendation without setting out its reasons for that 
recommendation in writing. Its likely that Quilter would argue that it had already explained 
the reasons for its recommendation to Mr P in person. But, transferring out of a DB scheme 
is a one-off event. Once transferred there's no going back, the benefits of the DB scheme 
are lost forever. So, I think Quilter should have ensured that Mr P had had sight of all the 
relevant information in writing before proceeding and that includes the information in 
Quilters letter of 13 January 2005. But, while I think Quilter certainly could have improved its 
advice process I also think its likely that Mr P would have gone ahead with the transfer 
anyway even if Quilters advice had been faultless.
Thats because, as I've said above, the company sponsoring the DB scheme was in 
liquidation. It couldnt afford the full liabilities of the DB scheme and the pension 
administrators had already told Mr P that his pension entitlements would be reduced. 
Although at that point they couldnt say by exactly how much. So the DB scheme was facing 
a very uncertain future. 
At that time, the Government had passed primary legislation a year earlier to introduce the 
FAS. But the regulations setting out how that law would operate werent in place and 
wouldnt be so for a further eight months. And in those circumstances, where little was 
known about how the scheme would operate, there was no certainty that Mr Ps DB scheme 
would be accepted into the FAS. In fact its notable that Mr Ps DB scheme didnt 
successfully enter the FAS until 2013, some eight years later. So I dont think Quilter or Mr P 
could reasonably have been expected to predict that the DB scheme would successfully 
enter into the FAS at some point in the distant future.Further, the DB trustees had offered Mr P a CETV of £29,564. And that sum was 
guaranteed. So, by transferring when he did and investing that money in an alternative fund, 
Mr P was ensuring that he didnt lose the entirety of his pension fund, or that it wasn't further 
reduced because his former employer couldn't afford the DB schemes liabilities. 
Mr Ps said that Quilter didnt arrange the transfer of the full value of his fund and he now 
has an entitlement from the FAS. Theres evidence that the scheme Trustees established in 
2010 that the fund hadn't been fully equalised. So they paid Mr P additional funds from the 
DB scheme. But theres nothing in the paperwork the DB scheme administrators provided in 
2004 to show that the funds hadn't been fully equalised. So I dont think Quilter could have 
reasonably known that was the case.
Further Mr Ps said that he also has a pension entitlement paid by the FAS. He hasnt 
provided us with any more details of what that entitlement is, when it began or when he 
knew he would receive it. But I've seen nothing in the paperwork the DB scheme 
administrators provided that indicates they were offering anything other than the full value of 
the fund to Mr P. So I dont think that Quilter would have known that Mr P had any 
entitlement under the FAS. Thats especially the case as  at that time  the FAS still wasnt 
operational. And, as I've said above, the DB scheme didnt enter into the FAS for another 
eight years. So I don't think Quilter did anything wrong in not realising that Mr P might have 
an entitlement under the FAS at some point in the future. 
Summary
At the time Quilter gave Mr P advice his DB scheme was in an uncertain and seemingly 
precarious position. The expected growth rate from a personal pension would most likely 
have indicated that Mr P would be better off by transferring than remaining in his DB 
scheme. So I think Quilters advice to transfer out of the DB scheme was reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman