DRN-3933672
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr L dispute the balance of their mortgage with Santander UK Plc. Mrs H has 
dealt with the complaint.
What happened
Mrs H and Mr L took out an interest only mortgage with Santander in 1985 for about £5,600. 
The property is a shared ownership leasehold property, so Mrs H and Mr L also had to pay 
rent, ground rent and service charges to the landlord or management company. The 
mortgage term expired in 2020 with an unpaid balance of about £23,000. Santander started 
action for possession of the property.
Mrs H says Santanders claim that the balance increased due to it paying rent arrears and 
service charges is incorrect. She says it only provided evidence of paying £3,000 of ground 
rent and service charges.
Mrs H says she made the mortgage payments and has receipts. But Santander applied the 
payments to arrears and fees which Mrs H says didnt exist. Mrs H says this happened over 
many years. Mrs H says when she questioned the mounting costs and how payments were 
applied Santander said it was an error and had been rectified. 
Our investigator told Mrs H that under our rules we cant look into interest, fees and charges 
applied before May 2016. This was because Mrs H had brought this part of the complaint to 
us outside our time limits. Mrs H agreed that the complaint would proceed on that basis.  
Our investigator said the mortgage balance increased due to underpayments, charges and 
interest. The investigator said charges and interest had been applied fairly. Mrs H didnt 
agree. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H and Mr Ls property is a shared ownership leasehold property. They have obligations 
to the landlord, including to pay rent, ground rent and service charges. The evidence 
provided shows they didnt meet these obligations and the landlord took legal action on a 
number of occasions, including county court judgements for the debt and notices seeking 
possession. Its common for freeholders or landlords to ask a mortgage lender to pay any 
amounts owed, to avoid forfeiture of the lease and to protect its security. Wed consider it fair 
for a lender to make these payments if theres a serious risk to its security.
We offer an informal dispute resolution. I need to make a decision about whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and explain my decision. I dont need to set out findings 
about each individual credit or debit on Mrs H and Mr Ls mortgage account.
Except in certain circumstances our rules say we cant look into events that happened more 
than six years before the complaint is made. Mrs H made a complaint in May 2022. Our 
investigator explained that we can only look into Mrs H and Mr Ls complaint about how their 
mortgage balance increased from 4 May 2016, and Mrs H agreed wed look into the 
complaint on that basis. 
In May 2016 Mrs H and Mr Ls mortgage balance was about £21,500.
The mortgage statements for Mrs H and Mr Ls account show one payment into the account 
in 2017 (of £170). Debits from the account totalled about £2,700. These debits included 
payments to the property landlord of about £2,000, fees, litigation costs and interest. 
There were payments into Mrs H and Mr Ls mortgage account in 2018 and 2019 which were 
less than the amounts debited. In these years the debits related to interest, arrears fees and 
a broken arrangement fee. Payments into Mrs H and Mr Ls account totalled slightly more 
than the debits in 2020. Debits from the mortgage account in 2020 related to interest, arrears 
fees, and a debt counselling fee (for a visit from a field agent). The mortgage term expired in 
late 2020.
After 2020, payments into the account exceeded the debits from the account. These debits 
were mostly of interest with one litigation fee. The outstanding balance reduced to about 
£23,000 by mid-2022.
Santander made payments to the property landlord in 2017. It said this was because it had 
received the relevant legal notices and its policy was to pay outstanding rent if not doing so 
would put its security at risk. It wrote to Mrs H and Mr L before making the payment asking 
about the money owed. Mrs H told us she signed an agreement for Santander to make the 
rent payments with the balance to be paid at the end of the term. Most likely she returned 
the form attached to Santanders letter, which authorised Santander to make the payment 
and add it to the arrears/capital balance. Santander wrote to confirm the payment had been 
made and an administration fee had been applied to the account. The amounts paid to the 
landlord form part of the mortgage balance now owed by Mrs H and Mr L.
Mrs H says she was aware of the payments to her landlord and litigation fees being added to 
her mortgage balance. But she didnt know she had arrears as she thought shed paid the 
arrears after a court hearing and was careful to ensure she made monthly payments after 
that.
Ive looked through Mrs H and Mr Ls mortgage statements. As I said, only one payment was 
made in 2017 but no arrears fees were applied in that year. One arrears fee was applied in 
2018: no payment was made that month. 12 arrears fees were applied in 2019, three of 
which were reversed: Mrs H made two payments in 2019, and there were 10 months when 
no payment was received into the mortgage account. Three arrears fees were applied in 
2020, two of which were reversed: there were eight months in 2020 when no payment was 
made into the mortgage account. No arrears fees were applied after 2020. Two arrears fees 
were reversed in 2022. 
There were a number of months since May 2016 when there were no payments into Mrs H 
and Mr Ls mortgage account. Mrs H did make some larger payments. But I dont think its 
fair to say that monthly payments were always made. I dont think it was unfair for Santander 
to apply arrears fees in the months where there was no payment into the account. It either 
didnt apply or later refunded any arrears fees applied in months where the monthly payment 
was received. Santanders records show it wrote to Mrs H and Mr L before instructing a field 
agent to visit. I think it was fair to apply a fee for the visit.
In response to our investigators view, Mrs H provided a letter from Santander dated 16 June 2021. This said her recent payment of £80 had been applied to the fees on her account but 
this had been amended. The letter went on to say that her account had an outstanding fee 
balance of about £2,800 and set out the fees and the dates they were applied. The letter 
said that overpayments and payments received before the due date would be applied to 
reduce the fees.
Mrs H considers this letter to be important. She also says Santander stopped applying 
arrears fees after 2020. But I dont think this is evidence that the balance of Mrs H and 
Mr Ls mortgage isnt correct. Rules on mortgage regulation allow Santander to make a 
decision about how payments will be applied (that is, whether payments are applied to 
arrears, fees or the current months payment). Rules on mortgage regulation also allow 
Santander to apply all of part of payments to other charges, such as for ground rent settled 
on a borrowers behalf. Santander told Mrs H how her payments would be applied.
I appreciate that Mrs H and Mr L will be disappointed. But based on the available evidence I 
dont think Santander made an error with their mortgage balance since May 2016. 
Mrs H says Santander made errors in the documents it recently submitted to the court. This 
isnt something I can fairly look into here, and a matter better dealt with by the court. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman