DRN-3867981
The complaint
Mr A complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance) (BPF) activated his loan prematurely.
What happened
In August 2021 Mr A entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with BPF. The loan was to 
fund his purchase of a kitchen from a third party (the retailer). The loan agreement 
expressly stated that Mr A was paying for the supply and installation of the kitchen. There 
was a buy now pay later (BNPL) period of 12 months, during which Mr A could repay the 
loan without being charged any interest; otherwise, interest would be charged and the loan 
would be repaid in 48 monthly instalments, beginning at the end of the BNPL period.
The loan agreement said that the amount of the loan would be paid to the retailer when the 
retailer has supplied the goods or services to you. Mr A expected the installation to be 
completed in November 2021. The installation was begun on time, but was not completed 
until October 2022. (The work was stopped in late 2021 for new parts to be ordered, and the 
work which had been carried out was done to a poor standard. The parts were delivered in 
April 2022, but work did not recommence until months later.) Meanwhile, the loan was 
activated in June 2022, meaning that the BNPL period will end in June 2023. Mr A complains 
that this was premature, since the service he had paid for had not yet been provided.
Mr A complained to BPF and to the retailer. He complained to the retailer about the poor 
quality of the work done and the time it took to do it, and he has told our service that he 
plans to refer that complaint to the Furniture Ombudsman if he is dissatisfied with the 
retailers response. At the same time, he complained to BPF that it had started the loan 
before the installation was completed, and asked for the end of the BNPL period to be put 
back to the anniversary of completion in October 2023.
BPF did not agree to do that. It said that it had done nothing wrong, and that it could activate 
the loan once installation had commenced. It also said that once an account has been 
activated, it cant be put on hold and the dates cant be changed. It offered Mr A £50 as a 
gesture of good will, which he declined. (BPF also logged his complaint as a claim for 
compensation under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, but Mr As complaint to 
our service is only about the activation of the loan.)
Mr A brought this complaint to our service. BPF elaborated on its stance further. It said that 
as Mr A was in possession of the goods, the loan agreement had been activated correctly. 
Our investigator agreed with BPF, and so he did not uphold this complaint. Mr A asked for 
an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am currently minded to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
First of all, it is important to be clear what this complaint is about. It is not about how BPF 
handled a section 75 claim about shoddy or delayed work by the retailer.1 Mr A is pursuing 
that issue separately, with the retailer and with another ombudsman service. This complaint 
is about the administration of the loan; specifically, that BPF activated it before the service 
he had paid for had been completed. It is about BPFs own actions, not about anything BPF 
might be vicariously liable for under section 75.
(Even if this was a complaint about BPFs liability under section 75, I do not think it would be 
sensible for me to consider that issue here, because there is, or is expected to be, a claim 
before another ombudsman service about what the retailer did. Under our rules, I dont have 
to consider the merits of a complaint if I think it would be more suitable for it to be dealt with 
by another ombudsman service. So I am currently minded to decline to consider BPFs 
liability for what the retailer did, and to just focus on BPFs administration of the loan. To do 
otherwise might result in Mr A being compensated twice for the same breach of contract.)
As I have said, Mr As contract with the retailer was for the retailer to supply the kitchen and 
to install it, and this term was repeated in the loan agreement with BPF. In a table headed 
Key features of the credit product was the following entry:
The proposed credit will be linked to the 
supply of specific goods or the provision of a 
service.
Description of goods/services/land (as 
applicable).Kitchen: Supply & Installation
(These are the specific goods or services 
which your loan relates to.)
In the same table, it said (emphasis added):
We will pay the amount of the loan to the retailer once we approve the loan and 
receive the signed agreement or when the retailer has supplied the goods or 
services to you, if this is later.
I think the use of the past tense here indicates that the retailer has not only supplied the 
goods, but has also supplied the service too  the installation  and that the service has 
been completed. To read it as meaning that the installation has been supplied when it has 
begun but is still in progress would put considerable strain on the language. I can find no 
other clause in the agreement which suggests that the loan amount would be paid to the 
retailer any earlier than that.
To be clear, I dont think this is the same things as saying that the installation must be 
completed satisfactorily. A debtors remedy for a botched installation would be to sue the 
retailer for breach of contract, or to bring a claim against BPF under section 75; meanwhile, 
BPF would still be entitled to release the funds to the retailer in accordance with this clause. 
But in this case, it is not simply a matter of the retailer completing the installation to a poor 
standard. It is that the retailers workmen left the work incomplete in late 2021 while they 
obtained new parts, with a view to returning later to finish the job, which they eventually did 
nearly a year later. So I dont think that the service had been provided until 20 October 2022.
BPF must have known that the installation had not been completed in 2021, because 
otherwise it would have released the funds then, instead of waiting until June. It is not clear 
1 Section 75 makes BPF jointly liable with the retailer for any breach of contract by the retailer in 
connection with the goods or services Mr A purchased with credit provided by BPF.what (if anything) happened in June that made BPF decide to release the funds then. But 
I have seen an email from the retailer to Mr A dated 5 July 2022 which confirms that, as far 
as the retailer was concerned, the installation was still incomplete.
So for now I am not persuaded that BPF was entitled to release of the funds when it did. 
I think it was an error by BPF. If more evidence is provided about why and how the funds 
were released in June, I may yet change my mind (and reject this complaint). But based on 
the evidence currently before me, I do not think it was done in accordance with the terms of 
the loan agreement.
If I uphold this complaint on that basis, then I will require BPF to extend the end of the BNPL 
period to 20 October 2023 or, if that is impossible, to unwind the agreement, to remove all 
trace of it from Mr As credit file, and to offer him a new loan on precisely the same terms, 
except that the BNPL period is to end on 20 October 2023.
I also propose to award Mr A £100 for his trouble. That is considerably less than he would 
like, but I think that most of his inconvenience has been caused to him by the retailer rather 
than by BPF, and so that would be best dealt with by the Furniture Ombudsman.
Responses to my provisional decision
BPF accepted that the loan should not have been activated when it was. However, it said 
that it was not possible to change the end of the BMPL date, and if it unwound the 
agreement and tried to set up a new loan in its place, it could not guarantee that Mr A would 
be accepted for a new loan. Instead, it suggested that it credit £1,200 to Mr As account, 
being the equivalent to just over six monthly payments. That would mean that by the end of 
the BNPL period in June 2023, the amount Mr A would have to repay without incurring 
interest would be the same as (or a little less than) what he would have had to pay in 
October 2023 if the BNPL period had been extended until then.
Mr A accepted that solution, and I think it is fair, and so I will require BPF to do that instead.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Clydesdale Financial Services Limited 
(trading as Barclays Partner Finance) to:
Credit Mr As account with £1,200, and
Pay Mr A £100 for his inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman