DRN-2874448
The complaint
Mr P is a director of W, a limited company. He complains that Covea Insurance plc hasnt 
offered a fair amount for a swimming pool cover system, after W made a storm damage 
claim on its commercial insurance policy.
What happened
Ive already issued a provisional decision. In my provisional decision, I set out my 
understanding of what happened. I said:
The only items outstanding on the claim are a swimming pool cover, and its roller and 
motor. Mr P submitted a £17,536 quote for a like-for-like replacement. The quote included 
£450 for delivery, £2,300 for installation, and £2,923 for VAT. Due to the challenges of 
getting the works done during lockdown, Covea agreed to settle this part of the claim for 
£15,265, ahead of the work being completed. 
However, Mr P went on to explain he wasnt intending to replace the cover on a like-for-like 
basis, and instead he wished to opt for a liquid system. As a result, Covea withdrew its 
settlement offer. Covea pointed to the following policy condition:
-until reinstatement has been completed no payment will be made for more than the 
amount which would be payable if an allowance had been made for wear, tear or 
depreciation
Covea says as the pool cover system isnt being reinstated on a like-for-like basis, the policy 
allows wear and tear to be deducted from the settlement, to account for the pre-incident 
condition of the items. Covea initially offered £8,000, but it later increased the offer to 
£10,000 (and paid this sum).
One of our investigators considered the complaint, and she thought it should be upheld. She 
thought it was unfair that Covea had withdrawn the offer after Mr P volunteered information 
about his intentions to opt for a liquid system. Covea disagreed, so the complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
In my provisional decision, I went on to explain that I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. 
I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P, but I dont agree Covea acted unfairly by withdrawing its offer 
upon learning his intentions. Whilst theres no suggestion Mr P intended to mislead at any 
stage, Coveas original offer was made in good faith, on the understanding the pool cover 
system was being replaced on a like-for-like basis. In my opinion, Covea was entitled to 
change its offer after Mr P clarified his intentions.
The policy covers the cost of repairing or reinstating the property, equal to its condition when 
new. However, when the policyholder decides against repairing or reinstating, as is the case 
here, then the policy terms allow Covea to deduct an amount to reflect the pre-loss condition 
of the property in question.
If W isnt replacing the pool cover system on a like-for-like basis, then it cant reasonably be 
entitled to the delivery, installation, or VAT costs on the like-for-like replacement quote. 
These arent costs W will incur. After these costs are deducted, the quote is £11,863. 
Covea hasnt set out why it considers £10,000 to be a fair value for the items, in respect of 
their pre-loss condition. I would reasonably expect an insurer to consider an items age, its 
expected life-span, and any signs of wear. However, given £10,000 is relatively close to 
£11,863, and Mr P hasnt disputed that £10,000 is a fair reflection of the items pre-loss 
condition, I dont intend to decide Covea should increase its offer. 
I also consider £10,000 to be fair in respect of the estimated costs for Mr Ps preferred pool 
cover alternative. Mr P says the initial cost of a liquid system would be £1,200, to have the 
dosing equipment installed. He estimates there would also be ongoing costs of £3,000 per 
year. I accept the liquid system will be more expensive in the long-term. However, W isnt 
being forced into this option by Covea. Given £10,000 covers about three years costs for 
Mr Ps chosen alternative, overall, I consider Coveas offer to be reasonable. Covea isnt 
responsible for Ws ongoing running costs.
In conclusion, I dont intend to uphold this complaint. 
However, if on reflection, Mr P now prefers to replace on a like-for-like basis, then it follows 
Covea will need to consider any costs incurred above £10,000. From the information I have 
seen, its not clear why Covea only offered £15,265 for the £17,536 quote. But if Mr P now 
prefers to replace like-for-like, and hes unhappy with the settlement Covea offers, or the 
terms of its offer, hell need to make a separate complaint.
Finally, I note that when Mr P contacted us, he explained W also had a business interruption 
claim and hes waiting for the settlement to be revised. As explained by our investigator, she 
understood Covea was still looking into matters and it was waiting on information from Mr P. 
Therefore, she didnt progress a complaint about the business interruption claim. If Mr P 
would like our service to look into a complaint about that claim, he needs to let our 
investigator know, so she can advise on how matters can be progressed.
In response, Mr P explained Covea had originally agreed to pay £17,536 for the like-for-like 
replacement cover system, but it later reduced its offer to £15,265 due to the quoted works 
no longer being required. He noted he wasnt questioning the policy terms, but Coveas 
further reduction from £15,265 to £10,000. Covea hasnt responded to my provisional 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has pointed towards an email in which the £15,265 offer was made. But in my view, its 
not clear from the email why £15,265 was being offered. It doesnt confirm a reduced offer 
was being made, from £17,536 to £15,265, due to Mr P opting for an alternative cover 
system, or due to £15,265 being a fair value for the pre-loss condition of the items. Based on everything Ive seen, Im not persuaded an adjusted offer of £15,265 was made, to 
reflect the items were no longer being replaced on a like-for-like basis.
In any event, whats important here, is Ive not been told or shown anything that leads me to 
believe £10,000 is unfair for the pre-loss condition of the items. As I noted in my provisional 
decision, if W isnt replacing the pool cover system on a like-for-like basis, then it cant 
reasonably be entitled to the delivery, installation, or VAT costs on the like-for-like 
replacement quote.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P, but for the reasons Ive set out above, and in my provisional 
decision, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman