DRN-4504262
The complaint
Ms N, as the director of a limited company C, complains that ClearBank Limited wont 
refund transactions she didnt authorise.  
C has business banking accounts with Tide. Tides bank accounts are provided by 
ClearBank, and so ClearBank is the respondent business here. For the most part, Ive 
referred to it for actions of both businesses. But where necessary, Ive referred to Tide 
specifically. 
What happened
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving my reasons for my decision:
In July 2022, while unwell with Covid-19, Ms N received a call from an individual who 
claimed they were calling from a high street bank whom she also banks with. Ms N 
says the caller, who we now know was a scammer, knew personal information about 
her and had spoofed the banks genuine phone number. The scammer said that 
multiple payments had left the account and they had sent her an email asking her to 
install a help tool to enable them to recover the money. Ms N says the email 
appeared to have come genuinely from the bank and she followed the instructions. 
Ms Ns laptop screen went dark and while she thought the caller was helping her 
safeguard the account, they used remote access software to send payments. 
The scammer then told Ms N that all her business accounts, including those with 
Tide, were compromised. She says she had already been logged on to her Tide 
account just prior to receiving the call. Having had remote access already, the 
scammer made two payments  for £6,100 and £3,900  from Cs Tide account while 
leading Ms N to believe that they were cancelling the fraudulent payments. 
The call ended and Ms N felt something wasnt right. She checked her accounts with 
the high street bank and Tide and realised shed been scammed. Ms N reported the 
matter to both businesses. She says the high street bank refunded the transactions 
following its investigation. ClearBank considered the payments were authorised by 
Ms N as they were completed on the Tide app on her phone. But it accepted that 
once it had been notified of the scam, the payment for £3,900 could have been 
recoverable from the beneficiary account had it acted sooner in attempting a recall. In 
response to her complaint, ClearBank reimbursed Cs account with that amount 
along with £100 compensation for the poor service provided at the time the scam 
was reported. 
Ms N remained unhappy that she didnt receive a full refund and referred her 
complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt agree with ClearBank that Ms N had 
authorised the payments. They recommended it to refund the full disputed amount, 
less any credits or funds recovered, along with interest and pay the £100 
compensation already offered. ClearBank said it had already paid £3,900 and £100 
into Cs account but it disagreed to refund the remaining loss. So, the complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
The starting point for any complaint about unauthorised transactions is the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). C isnt liable for payments it didnt authorise, 
unless Ms N (acting on Cs behalf) failed with intent or gross negligence to comply 
with the terms of the account or keep the account security details safe. 
To consider a payment authorised, the PSRs explain that Ms N must have given her 
consent to the execution of the payment transaction  and that consent must be in 
the form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed between C and Tide.
To establish the agreed form and procedure for the two payment transactions, which 
were completed via the Faster Payment service, Ive reviewed the terms and 
conditions of Cs accounts. Briefly, they say that consent can be provided by using 
the identified method for giving consent, typically a Make Payment button and 
verification which could include a fingerprint scan or submission of a code. ClearBank 
has said both payments were approved via the Tide app on Ms Ns phone.
Ms N submits that she didnt complete the steps involved in creating a payee and 
instructing the payment. She believes the scammer initiated the payments when they 
had remote access to her laptop. When asked by the investigator whether she recalls 
doing anything on her phone under the scammers instructions and whether she 
remembers reading anything on the screen, Ms N said she couldnt recall and that it 
all happened all very quicky. Ms N said shed been unwell with Covid-19 already and 
she felt pressured and worried about fraud.  
ClearBank hasnt disputed Ms Ns claim that remote access was used and that the 
transactions were initiated on her laptop by the scammer. Looking at the audit history 
from the day in question, I can see the account was accessed via a web browser 
around that time. In the absence of anything to suggest otherwise, Im not persuaded 
that Ms N completed all the steps in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, 
required to consent to making the payment. It seems more likely that the scammer 
initiated the transactions on Ms Ns laptop through remote access and then tricked 
her into verifying them on the Tide app on her phone. 
At the time, Ms N thought the scammer was helping her cancel the transactions. 
I dont think she could reasonably be described as having given someone else 
permission to go through the form and procedure to make the payments on her 
behalf either. From what shes told us about what she can recall from the time, Im 
persuaded that she likely completed verification believing that it was part of 
cancelling the transactions, not for payments to be sent to third parties. So, under the 
PSRs, each payment transaction is considered unauthorised.
Given this, ClearBank would be required to refund the transactions unless Ms N 
acted fraudulently (which theres been no suggestion of) or failed to comply with the terms of the account with intent or gross negligence. Im satisfied there was no intent 
on Ms Ns part here, so the question is whether she failed to comply with the terms of 
the account with gross negligence  something which, if proven, would mean C 
wouldnt be entitled to a refund under the PSRs.
ClearBank says it appreciates the circumstances here, but the clear and concise 
nature of the warnings plus the fact that Ms N is a long-standing payment service 
user means she ought to have known that initiating a payment doesnt imply funds 
are being returned. 
When the scammer called, Ms N said they knew several pieces of personal 
information about her  and how her accounts had been compromised and someone 
was making fraudulent payments. Ms N says the email that appeared to come from 
her bank looked genuine. Given their familiarity with her information and the fact that 
the call appeared to have come from a genuine number for the bank, I can see why 
Ms N trusted she was genuinely speaking to her bank and why she became 
concerned she was a victim of fraud. I think lots of people would have done the same 
in these deceptive circumstances.
 
I can see that the investigator questioned Ms N why she believed the caller, who 
claimed to work for a different business, would have knowledge that the Tide account 
was also under threat. Ms Ns explained she had been panicking at the time given a 
large sum of money had left the account with the other business. She says that point 
didnt register at the time. I accept that Ms N might not have acted perfectly 
reasonably  its possible to criticise her actions with the benefit of hindsight. But 
given that the scam was designed to engineer its victims in acting hastily, and that is 
what seems to have happened here, I dont consider Ms N acted with very significant 
carelessness to conclude that she failed with gross negligence. I think lots of people 
would have acted in the same way as Ms N did. 
Ive also thought about the warnings that ClearBank has referred to. It has provided a 
sample of a warning it says would have been displayed at the time the transactions 
were initiated. It relates to a Confirmation of Payee (CoP) check. ClearBank has also 
provided an example of the OTP it says it would have sent to Ms Ns phone at the 
time. Ive carefully reviewed the technical audit history, and, unlike previous 
transactions not in dispute, I cant see that an OTP or a CoP check happened at the 
time of the relevant transactions. The technical data does show that the transactions 
were approved through the app  which is in line with what ClearBank has said. Our 
services understanding of that process is that the customer receives a notification on 
their device to approve a transaction in the app. They then access the approvals 
screen on the app to complete the payment journey. 
Ms N doesnt recall approving any transactions, but looking at the evidence, I think 
its more likely than not she was tricked into approving the transactions under the 
guise of cancelling or reversing the payments. I accept that the screen refers to 
approving payments. But I can appreciate how, in the heat of the moment, talking 
with someone she trusted, Ms N found it plausible that shed need to do this for the 
payment to be returned. I acknowledge ClearBanks point that Ms N had used these 
steps before, so should have known it was for making payments rather than 
cancelling or receiving them. But, like most people, Ms N wasnt an expert in fraud  
so I can see why it wasnt obvious to her that these steps couldnt also be used for 
other purposes.It follows that, in line with the PSRs, I dont consider C can be fairly held liable for the 
unauthorised payments and ClearBank needs to put things right. It has already 
refunded the smaller transaction for another reason. It now needs to refund the larger 
transaction, along with interest to compensate C for being without the funds all this 
time. I note that ClearBank has included the £100 compensation in the financial loss 
that it says remains outstanding. But as it has acknowledged itself, that amount was 
paid to recognise its service failures, i.e., a non-financial loss. That amount therefore 
doesnt form part of the financial loss C is claiming and so ClearBank needs to refund 
the transaction amount of the payment that is yet to be refunded, i.e., £6,100. If it 
didnt do this at the time of refunding the smaller transaction, ClearBank can of 
course make a deduction for £45.62 which it says it recovered from the beneficiary 
accounts and which I can see was paid into Cs account on 5 August 2022. 
Ive also thought about the compensation paid by ClearBank. The complainant in this 
case is a limited company. Although I recognise Ms N has suffered some distress in 
her personal capacity, I can only consider the impact this has had on C here. Based 
on the information available to me about the impact of the remaining funds not being 
returned to C earlier and keeping in mind that Im awarding compensatory interest on 
that amount, Im satisfied that £100 which ClearBank has already paid is fair 
compensation in the circumstances.   
Putting things right
To put things right, ClearBank Limited needs to:
reimburse C the unauthorised transaction of £6,100 less the amount recovered from 
the beneficiary accounts if a deduction hasnt already been made during the previous 
refund; and
pay 8% simple interest per year on the amount refunded, from the date of the 
unauthorised transaction to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible) 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require ClearBank 
Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N  as the 
director of C  to accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman