DRN-3513834
The complaint
Mr A has complained about his car insurer Skyfire Insurance Company Limited because it 
cancelled a policy, on which he was a named driver, and logged a fraud marker against his 
name.
What happened
Mr A was driving his car in July 2020 when the police stopped him. The police said he had 
no insurance. Mr A said he had paid a broker for cover but hadnt received any documents 
yet. The police confirmed there was no insurance in place and referred Mr A to the Motor 
Insurance Database. 
Subsequently, in February 2021 Mr A contacted Skyfire. He said he had found its details on 
the database and believed it was the insurer hed paid for cover with in summer 2020. He 
said hed come to understand the broker had not been legitimate and he had been scammed 
 but he hadnt known this at the time as this was the first occasion on which hed taken out 
insurance. He said hed not been sure how to go about finding a quote and had seen an 
advert for the broker on an internet sales and wanted site. Hed called the broker twice, 
providing some basic details the broker had requested, such as his name, address and date 
of birth. He said he was given a policy number and told he could drive. It was only when he 
was stopped by the police, Mr A said, that he realised there was a problem. Mr A told Skyfire 
he has since had trouble finding other insurance as a marker seems to have been added 
against his name. He said the marker was unfair, particularly given the criminal charges 
against him for driving without insurance had been dropped. He asked Skyfire to help him. 
Skyfire told Mr A that it wouldnt amend any markers. It said that he had admitted using an 
unregulated broker to arrange a policy for him  a policy on which he was only a named 
driver and where the policyholder was unknown to Mr A. Mr A urged Skyfire to assist him 
and when it wouldnt, he complained to us. Mr A told us he had been the victim of a 
fraudulent broker and Skyfires unfairly applied fraud marker was preventing him from getting 
insurance and using his car.   
Our investigator ultimately felt that Skyfire had not acted unfairly. So he didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mr A asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Skyfire has placed a fraud marker against Mr A. Fraud is a serious accusation. So an insurer 
cant just say someone has been fraudulent and place a marker against their name. Any 
insurer, placing a marker against a customer, has to be able to show with a reasonable level 
of evidence that a fraud has most likely occurred for which it is fair to blame the customer. If 
they cant theyll likely have to remove the marker. What showing that will entail will likely 
differ depending upon the circumstances of each situation. 
Here Skyfire has a policy which even Mr A seems to accept was set up fraudulently. The 
issue really is whether Skyfire has fairly determined that Mr A was complicit in that fraud, or 
whether he was actually an unsuspecting victim of it. To that end Skyfire has told this service 
that it thinks Mr A likely knew the non-genuine nature of the broker and the policy that was 
arranged. It says that is likely the case because Mr A, contrary to his own account, had held 
or applied for insurance before. Ive seen evidence which supports that.
I bear in mind that Mr A, as a driver, whether or not this was his first time driving, had certain 
obligations to ensure he is properly insured to drive his car on the road. But from what Mr A 
says he didnt take any steps a reasonable driver would generally be expected to  such as 
making sure to receive and check policy documents before driving. And nor does Mr As 
account suggest that, whilst he acted cautiously, he was drawn into the fraudulent situation 
by the clever presentations and deceptions of the broker. In the circumstances I can 
understand why Skyfire took the view that Mr A knew or ought reasonably to have known 
that the broker, along with the policy it arranged for him, were not genuine. I think that wasnt 
an unfair or unreasonable decision for it to take. It follows that I dont think Skyfire needs to 
amend its fraud marker, logged against Mr As name. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Skyfire Insurance Company 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman