DRN-1715522
 
The complaint
Miss Ts complaint is about the redress Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
(MBFS) offered when they agreed to allow her to reject a car she was leasing through 
them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss T acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about it. 
 
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. MBFS agreed that Miss Ts car wasnt of satisfactory quality and they 
were therefore right to take the car back and to terminate her finance agreement with them. 
But I agree with the investigator that MBFS should have done more to put things right for 
Miss T.
Its usual in these circumstances for this service to recommend the business refunds any 
deposit thats been paid. MBFS have agreed to do that but as Miss T has been deprived of 
that money whilst funding a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality, they should add 8% simple 
interest to that refund.
MBFS have also agreed to refund 10% of the finance instalments Miss T paid. I can see that 
Miss T managed to complete mileage that was broadly in line with the mileage allowed 
under the agreement. So, she had reasonable use of the car and, when it wasnt in her 
possession, its clear that a courtesy vehicle was supplied. But I think theres reason to 
increase this refund to 20% of instalments paid. I say that because I think Miss Ts 
enjoyment of the car would have been impacted to a greater extent than MBFS have 
considered. Shes explained that the courtesy car was not of a comparable standard and I 
also note that it was a diesel vehicle which meant she wasnt able to travel though the Ultra 
Low Emissions Zone (ULEZ). MBFS should add 8% interest to the refund of instalments as 
Miss T has been deprived of this money.
MBFS have agreed to pay Miss T £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
shes experienced. But its not simply been a case of Miss T having to take the car back to 
the garage. The courtesy car wasnt registered at her address and shes therefore had 
parking issues to resolve and Miss T has also explained that shes had to drive a little further 
as she wasnt allowed to use the ULEZ. Theres also been an independent inspection of the 
car that will have been an inconvenience and Miss T has had to refer her complaint to this 
service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. I think, in the circumstances, the 
compensation suggested by MBFS is not sufficient and Im asking them to increase it to 
£250.
Putting things right
MBFS should increase the redress they are providing as detailed below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and tell Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited to:
refund Miss Ts deposit and add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Miss T £250 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced;
refund 20% of the finance instalments that Miss T has paid and add 8% simple 
interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman