DRN-1573537
 
The complaint
Ms H complains that St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium mortgage PPI policy taken out in 2005.               
Ms H applied for the policy three years after taking out a mortgage, during a phone call. The 
policy provided her with cover against any accidents, sickness and unemployment.
Ms H complains that St Andrews has mis-sold the policy to her.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Ms H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Hs case.
I have decided not to uphold Ms Hs complaint. Here are my reasons:
I can see that Ms H was most likely eligible for the policy given her circumstances at 
the time of sale.
 
I can't be sure what happened at the time of sale when the policy was sold to Ms H. 
But i can't safely conclude on this occasion that St Andrews didn't give Ms H the 
choice to have it. I say this because by the time Ms H took out the policy the 
mortgage had been running for around three years. So she would have understood 
that she could choose to have it without considering that it would impact on her 
chances of obtaining a mortgage. There is very little sales documentation available 
from the time of sale but from what i do know of how these sales were conducted at 
this time and based on what i have already concluded, I dont think I can fairly say 
that St Andrews didnt make it clear that the policy was optional or not mention it at 
all. 
 
From what I know of sales conducted by St Andrews during a phone call at that time, 
the representative most likely provided a recommendation that Ms H take the policy. 
So it had to ensure that the policy was suitable for her needs and I think it most likely 
was on this occasion. 
 I say this because of what Ms H has told us about her circumstances at the time of 
sale. She has said she had 6 months full and 6 months half pay at the time that she 
could have relied upon. But the benefit on offer would have paid out in addition to any 
sick pay she would have had, so she could use any benefit available to meet her 
other expenses at what was likely to be a difficult time financially. The benefit would 
have paid out for longer too. So I think Ms H would have had some use for the policy 
despite her existing arrangements. I cant reasonably say she didnt need the cover 
provided by the policy.
 
Ms H also wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, 
such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. So, as she could have benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I think it 
unlikely she needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and 
limitations. 
 
Its possible the information St Andrews gave Ms H about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But even if she had received clear information on the costs, I 
dont think it would have changed her mind to have the policy for the reasons already 
given. Ive also seen nothing to suggest it was unaffordable or that the benefit was 
insufficient to meet her monthly mortgage repayments.
 
Overall, it seems likely to me that Ms H would have understood what she was paying for, it 
was suitable for her needs and I think it unlikely she would have made a different decision 
about whether to take out PPI if better information had been provided.
my decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Ms Hs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman