DRN-4038703
The complaint
Ms C complains that MBNA Limited (MBNA) irresponsibly gave her a credit card account 
she couldnt afford.
What happened
In July 2019, Ms C applied for and was granted a credit card account with MBNA with a 
credit limit of £7,800. There were no credit limit increases after that. 
Ms C complained to MBNA to say that she shouldnt have been given the account and 
that MBNA ought to have made a better effort to understand her financial circumstances.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Since Ms C didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MBNA will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about 
our approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Did MBNA complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms C would 
be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Ms Cs complaint is that MBNA provided her with a level of credit that was unaffordable. 
MBNA has explained it carried out a credit check using a credit reference agency to work out 
of credit it was able to offer. It also relied on the information Ms C had provided in her 
application. 
Before granting the account, MBNA looked into Ms Cs financial situation, including the way 
she was managing her existing credit. I understand Ms C provided details about the income 
from her occupation on her application, which showed her as having an annual income of 
£39,000. From the credit check it carried out, MBNA would have been aware that Ms C had 
a good credit history with no recent missed payments or adverse records on her credit file. 
Ive also seen that Ms C was intending to use her new credit to pay off borrowing she 
already had with other credit providers. She also paid £1,000 into her current account. 
I agree with our adjudicator that MBNA could have carried out better checks before granting 
the credit, such as asking Ms C to provide details about her daily outgoings and other 
committed expenditure. I think in doing so MBNA would have been acting proportionately by 
seeking to gain a more thorough understanding of Ms Cs financial circumstances before 
agreeing to open the account and then allow Ms C to transfer a substantial amount of 
existing credit over to it, to the extent that no further credit would be available to her out of 
the opening credit limit shed been given. 
What would proportionate checks have shown?
I see our adjudicator asked Ms C for some further details and evidence about her financial 
circumstances at the relevant time and she provided us with her credit report and bank 
statements. This was to help us understand what, if anything, MBNA might have found out if 
it completed reasonable and proportionate checks. 
I think it would have been proportionate for MBNA to have taken better steps to verify Ms Cs 
financial circumstances. In the absence of anything else, Ive reviewed four months of bank 
statements leading up to the lending decision. I think this gives a good indication of what 
MBNA would likely have discovered if it had tried to find out more about Ms Cs daily 
expenditure and other items she had to pay each month. 
The statements show that Ms C was making regular use of her overdraft between being paid 
each month. Whilst this suggests that her overall financial situation could have been better, I 
dont necessarily think that regular use of an overdraft facility is in itself enough to suggest 
that any further new credit was likely to be unaffordable. I agree with our adjudicator that, 
broadly speaking, Ms C was spending around £2,000 each month on committed expenditure 
and daily living costs such as food and petrol. I think this demonstrates that at the time Ms C 
appears to have had enough disposable income available each month to make regular, 
sustainable repayments towards this new credit facility. As Ive already said, Ive also seen 
that two credit card accounts she was paying were totally or substantially cleared with the 
balances being transferred to MBNA at a very preferential rate shortly after the account had 
been opened. So, had MBNA completed proportionate checks before granting the credit, I 
think its likely it would have discovered this too. It therefore didnt act unfairly by opening the 
account for Ms C with the level of credit it had granted her.
Having looked carefully at all the available evidence and information, I dont think Ive seen 
enough to show or suggest that Ms Cs card agreement with MBNA was unaffordable. So I 
cant reasonably conclude that MBNA ought to have known she would struggle to make the 
repayments. Im therefore not persuaded that MBNA acted unfairly in approving her for the 
card with the limit it gave her. It follows that I dont think it needs to do anything more to put 
things right. 
Did MBNA act unfairly in any other way?
Ms C has told us about a recently-diagnosed medical condition that she says may have had 
an impact on her ability to manage her own financial affairs. It doesnt seem that Ms C has 
made MBNA aware of this, and I am assuming she wasnt in a position to do that at the time 
the account was first opened. So its not something Im able to take into consideration when 
deciding whether MBNA acted fairly in granting Ms C the credit. 
I am sorry that Im not able to help Ms C further on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman