DRN-4439860
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Scottish Widows Limited (SW) stopped the direct debit for her pension 
contributions without notifying her. As the contributions were only restarted 30 months later, 
Mrs S would like compensation for the financial loss she feels shes suffered over that 
period.
What happened
Mrs S has a personal pension with SW.
In November 2020, SW wrote to Mrs S to tell her that additional contributions into her 
pension would stop and the associated direct debit would be cancelled. The direct debit was 
paid by Mrs Ss employer. I understand that it was split as £48 each month from Mrs S and 
£36 each month from her employer. The letter explained that Mrs S would need to speak to 
her other employer to discuss her options. 
Mrs S asked SW what the letter meant. And in December 2020, SW wrote to her again to 
explain that itd made a mistake. It said that when the scheme Mrs Ss policy was in was 
terminated in 2007, her policy shouldve been ported from a workplace pension to a personal 
pension, but it hadnt been. SW confirmed that Mrs Ss policy had now been successfully 
ported to a personal pension, so contributions into the policy could continue. SW told Mrs S 
she didnt need to do anything else for the payments to continue to be collected.
However, this wasnt correct. SW stopped the direct debit in December 2020. No further 
direct debit contributions were taken between January 2021 and June 2023, when Mrs S 
called SW to query the missing payments. She said she hadnt previously noticed the 
missing payments due to treatment for poor health. SW re-started the direct debit in July 
2023 when it took two months contributions. It then resumed the previous normal level of 
contributions from August 2023.
SW said that it sent Mrs S annual statements on 10 June 2021, 10 June 2022 and 9 June 
2023 which showed that the direct debit contributions hadnt been collected since December 
2020. 
Mrs S complained to SW. Shed seen from the 2023 annual statement that there was a 
problem. She was unhappy that SW hadnt collected her direct debit payments. And felt 
shed lost out on tax relief. She wanted SW to restart the direct debit payments and to make 
good the missing payments. 
SWs complaint manager spoke to Mrs S about her complaint on 25 July 2023. I understand 
that Mrs S said the missing contributions couldnt be paid in one lump sum. And that she/her 
employer would like to pay the missed contributions in instalments. 
SW issued its final response to the complaint on 1 September 2023. It apologised for 
stopping the direct debit without permission. It upheld the complaint and offered Mrs S £250 
for the poor service shed received. 
Mrs S didnt think SWs offer of compensation was fair, so she brought her complaint to this 
service. She said that neither she, nor her employer, had noticed the direct debit had been 
stopped until shed received the 2023 annual statement. Mrs S explained that due to finding 
out about a serious health condition in June 2021, and then receiving prolonged treatment, 
she hadnt read the 2021 or 2022 statement at the time they were sent.
Mrs S said that 30 monthly contributions were missing from her pension. She said shed also 
missed out on the corresponding tax relief and investment performance. Mrs S said that her 
employer didnt have the money to cover the missing 30 months contributions. She felt that 
SW shouldve noticed what had happened. So it should be responsible for correcting its 
mistake and should cover the missing amounts.
After the complaint was referred to this service, SW made a revised offer to resolve the 
complaint. It said its complaints manager shouldve been more accommodating to Mrs Ss 
concerns about the missed monthly contributions. 
SW said that while it wouldnt pay the missed contributions on Mrs Ss behalf, it could 
explore the potential options of how the missed payments could be paid into the policy. It 
said these were:
a) Having Mrs Ss employer pay a lump sum to it for the missed payments, or 
b) Setting up a payment plan for her employer to pay in the missing payments. 
SW said that if Mrs S/her employer were interested in its offer shed need to let SW know 
how shed like to move forward and what her employer could afford to pay over what period. 
SW would then be able to confirm if it could facilitate the chosen repayment method. And if 
so, it would then confirm with Mrs S/her employer and put the agreed repayment plan into 
action.
SW felt that as its complaints manager hadnt originally made this offer, a fair level of 
compensation for the poor service was £500, not the £250 initially offered. 
Our investigator felt that SWs revised offer was fair. She said that this service wouldnt 
expect SW to cover the missed contributions itself. But we would expect it to recognise that 
the missed payments might not be affordable in one go. She also felt that the £500 
compensation SW had offered for poor service was reasonable for the impact its error - and 
the fact that its complaints manager hadnt initially explored the various options for Mrs S 
and her employer to make the missed contributions - had caused.
Mrs S didnt agree with our investigator. She made the following points.
SWs actions had caused her pension to be at least £3,000 lower than it wouldve 
been. So the £500 compensation itd offered was insulting.
She wanted SW to make a reasonable payment into her pension to correct its error.
Our investigator considered Mrs Ss points and issued a further view on the complaint. But 
she still felt that SWs offer was fair.
Mrs S didnt agree with our investigator. She acknowledged that she couldve realised 
sooner than the contributions had stopped. But said that her illness had led to significant 
worry and stress for both her and her employer. And this had meant that theyd not reviewed 
pensions paperwork as closely as normal and hadnt noticed the error.Mrs S didnt think it was fair that she should have to check that SW had correctly followed its 
instructions. She felt it was its responsibility to administer her policy correctly. As such, she 
felt it was only fair that SW paid half of the missing contributions. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. But I agree with our investigator that SWs most 
recent settlement offer is fair and reasonable under the circumstances. I know this will be 
disappointing for Mrs S. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
Before I start, Id like to acknowledge how difficult the last few years mustve been for Mrs S 
as shes gone through such poor health. I hope she is enjoying much better health now.
When a business makes a mistake, we expect it to restore the consumers position, as far as 
its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the error had on the consumer. 
I can see that SW has made mistakes. It sent an incorrect letter to Mrs S in November 2020. 
And while it confirmed that it had made this mistake in December 2020, it still cancelled the 
direct debit that Mrs S and her employer used to make her monthly pension contributions. 
And it did this without her permission and without notifying either Mrs S or her employer. 
When Mrs S eventually realised whatd happened and complained, SWs complaints 
manager didnt offer to help Mrs S and her employer find a suitable way to pay the missing 
contributions into her policy. But, after Mrs S brought her complaint to this service, SW has 
reconsidered its complaint response and has offered to work with Mrs S and her employer to 
find a payment plan which works for them.
I understand why Mrs S feels that SW should pay at least half of the missing contributions 
into her policy. She expected SW to administer her policy correctly, without the need for her 
to check that her contributions were being made as she expected. 
While I have some sympathy with this view, I cant fairly agree. I say this because I agree 
with our investigator that where a business has made an error, this service expects it to take 
steps to put the consumer back in the position they wouldve been in if the error hadnt 
occurred. In this case, SW has offered to work with Mrs S and her employer to ensure that 
the missing contributions can be paid in over a time that suits them. 
I appreciate that SW made a mistake when it cancelled the direct debit. But I think Mrs S 
couldve noticed in early 2021 that monthly payments were no longer being made into her 
pension. Her monthly payslips shouldve shown that no pension deductions were being 
made. So in the first half of 2021, before SW sent Mrs S her June 2021 annual statement 
and before her diagnosis, Im of the view that Mrs S shouldve noticed the problem. 
Had she done so, I consider that it wouldve been relatively easy for monthly contributions to 
be resumed, and for the small number of missing contributions to have been made up. I also 
note that Mrs S can still benefit from the tax relief when she makes the missed contributions. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that SWs offer to put things right is fair under the circumstances. I 
say this because it will allow Mrs S and her employer to make up the monthly contributions 
in a timeframe that suits them. I next considered the £500 compensation SW has offered Mrs S for the distress and 
inconvenience the poor service caused her.
Distress and inconvenience
Mrs S doesnt consider that the £500 compensation SW has offered is sufficient in the 
circumstances. 
For distress and inconvenience compensation, this service considers the impact a 
businesss error has had and the time its taken to resolve it. In this case, I can see that SW 
made mistakes  it failed to correctly convert Mrs Ss policy into a personal pension in 2007. 
And then failed to collect the monthly direct debit contributions, despite saying that these 
would still be collected, until they restarted in July 2023. As I noted earlier, Im persuaded 
that Mrs S and/or her employer shouldve noticed that the monthly direct debit wasnt being 
taken at some point in the first half of 2021. 
As our investigator explained, SW made its offer of £500 compensation for the 
inconvenience its errors caused Mrs S, not for any financial loss she feels shes suffered. 
While I acknowledge that Mrs S doesnt consider that the £500 offered is enough to put her 
financial losses right, I cant fairly and reasonably hold SW responsible for the financial loss 
Mrs S considers shes suffered over a period of 30 months. 
SW is now willing to work with Mrs S and her employer to put things right. But I can see that 
it wasnt as helpful as it couldve been when Mrs S first complained. I say this because it 
didnt at that point offer to work with her and her employer to find a suitable repayment plan.
Overall, taking into account both the errors SW made and the subsequent poor service it 
provided to Mrs S, Im satisfied that the £500 compensation offer SW has made is 
reasonable. 
Putting things right
I require Scottish Widows Limited to pay Mrs S £500 compensation for the errors it made 
and the poor service it provided her with.
I also require Scottish Widows Limited to work with Mrs S and her employer to establish an 
acceptable repayment plan for the missed contributions.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Scottish Widows Limited must 
take the action detailed in the Putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman