DRN-3515194
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC debited his account with a number of transactions 
totalling £3926 that he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise. And that when he tried to 
raise this with them, he couldnt contact them over the phone which caused delays to him 
raising the complaint.
What happened
Mr P says that from around 5pm on 25 January 2021, there were a number of transactions 
on his Lloyds account which he didnt authorise. These were payments between his savings 
account and his current account, and payments to a betting account which he had used 
previously. Mr P says he noticed these transactions a few days later and promptly contacted 
Lloyds to raise this and that he also cancelled his debit card. However, he had issues 
reaching Lloyds via phone. Lloyds accepted this and gave Mr P £50 in recognition of the 
trouble and upset the communication issues had caused. As some transactions Mr P was 
disputing hadnt yet debited the account, he was advised to wait two weeks to raise the 
dispute with the fraud team. Before the two weeks were up, Mr P referred his complaint to 
our service. 
Lloyds initially didnt investigate the disputed transaction aspect of the complaint, as Mr P 
hadnt raised this directly with their fraud team. They agreed that there had been issues with 
communication when Mr P tried to raise the claim initially and still felt that the £50 previously 
offered and paid in recognition of this was fair. Our investigator felt it was clear that Mr P was 
also disputing the transactions totalling £3962 and explained this to Lloyds. As a result, 
Lloyds also investigated the disputed transactions. 
Having done so, it said that Mr P had logged onto his online banking using his own mobile 
phone device that was registered on his account before and after each transaction, meaning 
they were most likely authorised and completed by Mr P. As a result, it didnt uphold Mr Ps 
complaint in relation to the disputed transactions. 
Our investigator agreed with Lloyds. They felt that it was unlikely someone else would have 
access to Mr Ps phone login details and mobile banking log in details to complete the 
transactions. And they couldnt see the benefit of a fraudster depositing money into Mr Ps 
own betting account. As a result, they didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr P disagreed with this; he has said he doesnt know how his money was moved around 
the different accounts but that he didnt make the transactions himself. As soon as he 
realised, he tried to contact Lloyds but spent days not being able to get through.
As an informal agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Lloyds decision not to refund the disputed transactions is reasonable 
in the circumstances, so I dont uphold the complaint Ill explain why in more detail. 
Generally, Lloyds is able to hold Mr P liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. This position is 
confirmed in the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms and conditions of 
his account.
Looking at the banks records, Im satisfied that Mr Ps genuine card details were used to 
make the payments to the betting account. While this is important, it isnt enough on it own to 
say Mr P is liable for the transactions. Lloyds also has to show its more likely than not that 
Mr P himself made or otherwise authorised the transactions. 
Ive taken into account a number of documents, as well as Mr Ps own testimony. Mr P has 
said that he was in work as a security guard during the time the transactions were 
happening, and he isnt allowed to look at his phone at work. And it was two days later that 
he looked at his account and saw the transactions.
Looking at the evidence available to me, I can see that the mobile phone registered to Mr Ps 
account was used to log into his online banking and transfer the funds between his savings 
and current accounts on a number of occasions over the course of the two days. These 
transfers coincided with matching payments being sent to the betting account or winnings 
from the betting account being sent to his savings account. 
As Mr P hasnt said that he lost his phone or that anyone else had access to it, I think its 
more likely than not these transfers were therefore made by Mr P himself. This is because I 
think its unlikely someone else was able to access his phone and then bypass both his 
mobile phone security and his online banking security, all without him realising that someone 
else was using it over a two day period. And I think that it then follows its also more likely 
than not he authorised and made the payments to the betting account himself. 
In addition to this, I can see that Mr P used his debit card at an automated teller machine 
(ATM) on four separate occasions over the 48-hour period. And on 26 January, at 8:23pm, 
he used the ATM to make a balance enquiry. This was after a number of payments had 
been made to the betting site, so if Mr P was unaware of the transactions, I would have 
expected him to raise this with Lloyds at that point. But hes said he didnt do so for a few 
days after that, seemingly on 28 January when he ordered a new debit card.
Mr P has accepted that he was using the betting site himself up to 25 January. Looking at 
his statements I can see hes used the same betting site on and off in the years prior to the 
disputed transactions. And his statements show similar spending patterns to the disputed 
transactions over shorter periods in the past. So, on balance, I think its more likely than not 
that Mr P himself authorised and made the payments to the betting account.
Mr P is unhappy that Lloyds didnt flag the payments as suspicious and contact him about 
them sooner. But as Ive concluded that I think its more likely than not that Mr P authorised 
the transactions, I think any complaint about Lloyds not questioning potentially fraudulent 
payments falls away considering this. So, I dont think Lloyds has made an error in the 
circumstances.Because of this, I think Lloyds acted fairly when it didnt uphold his claim for the disputed 
transactions on the basis that its more likely Mr P authorised and made the payments 
himself, and I dont think it needs to do anything further to remedy the complaint, including 
his complaint about his communication with Lloyds. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman