DRN-4399415
The complaint
Mr B complains that PRA Group (UK) Limited (PRA) sent him an email saying that his data 
had been compromised.
Mr B wants PRA to compensate him for the resulting distress and uncertainty. 
What happened
PRA uses a third party business to transfer personal data. In 2023, the third party was the 
subject of a cyber-attack which impacted many of its customers, including PRA.
When our investigator first considered Mr Bs complaint, he thought that as PRA decided to 
use a third party to transfer data, PRA needed to ensure that it had appropriate protections 
in place. As our investigator didnt think that PRA had shown what steps it took to protect the 
data, he thought PRA was responsible for the impact of the data breach on Mr B.
Our investigator noted that Mr B hadnt yet suffered any financial loss because of the breach 
but could understand his concern that something may happen in the future. Our investigator 
asked PRA to pay Mr B £250 and offer a free protective fraud marker for the next two years.
Mr B was happy with the investigation outcome but PRA disagreed. PRA acknowledged that 
it was the data controller of Mr Bs personal data. PRA explained that it had used the third 
party business for several years. PRA said that the third party was a leading business in its 
field but that it had been the subject of a sophisticated cyber-attack which had impacted 
hundreds of global and national organisations.
PRA explained that as well as using a secure managed file transfer application, it also 
employs a wide range of security methods. PRA detailed some of these measures on a 
confidential basis.
PRA said that it reported the data breach to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) 
and set out what remedial steps it had taken to further protect customers. PRA also made a 
voluntary notification to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Neither the ICO nor the FCA 
raised concerns about the way that PRA handled the incident. 
PRA set out further details of the steps it had taken in response to the cyber-attack, including 
taking legal advice and forming a specific team to follow up with customers. 
PRA said that it might not always be helpful for customers to sign up to fraud prevention 
services as having a marker against their name may negatively impact future lending 
applications. PRA recommended that customers continue to use a free credit monitoring 
service.
Finally, PRA thought the proposed compensation was excessive as there had been no 
financial loss to Mr B and PRA had acted in line with its regulatory requirements.
After considering everything again, our investigator issued a second investigation outcome. 
In light of the information PRA had provided, our investigator thought PRA had put 
appropriate security measures in place and was not at fault for the breach. 
Our investigator suggested that Mr B could take his concerns about the data breach to the 
ICO but that as things stood, our investigator couldnt hold PRA responsible. This meant he 
no longer thought it fair to require PRA to pay compensation or cover the cost of a protective 
fraud marker.
Mr B is unhappy with the second investigation outcome. He cant see why PRA wants to 
quibble about paying £250. Mr B says its strange that PRA think the Financial Ombudsman 
wasnt the appropriate organisation to be involved in his complaint given PRA referred him to 
our service in its final response.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues, particularly 
as our investigator has already given Mr B a detailed explanation of why he no longer thinks 
that PRA is to blame. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt 
mean that Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to me
To answer Mr Bs query about why PRA referred to the Financial Ombudsman in its final 
response - PRA is regulated by the FCA and has to follow the FCAs complaint handling 
rules, which include providing referral rights to the Financial Ombudsman. 
Its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman to decide if a business has breached data 
protection laws  that falls to the ICO to decide. And we cant regulate or discipline the 
businesses that we cover. We can however consider whether a business should 
compensate a consumer where it has made a mistake and the mistake relates to a regulated 
activity that we are allowed to consider under the rules that govern our service. 
I fully understand Mr Bs frustration with the fact that our investigator had a change of view 
but I cant see that PRA is responsible for the data breach. The evidence which PRA has 
provided  some of which I cant share because of its commercial sensitivity  shows that it 
has suitable protections in place to ensure personal data is kept safe. 
Once PRA became aware of the data breach, it acted quickly to notify the ICO and then 
follow the guidance released by the ICO on its website. PRA has today told this service that 
the ICO has confirmed that it is not taking any regulatory action against PRA following the 
breach. The ICO says that this is due to the particular facts of the case and the remedial 
measures that PRA set out in its report. 
Im satisfied that PRA promptly notified Mr B so that he in turn could take his own steps to 
protect his data. I consider PRA took all reasonable steps to minimise any potential risks to 
Mr B. 
I dont want to in any way downplay the distress and upset that Mr B has felt after learning 
about the breach. I can understand his concern and uncertainty over the security of his data. 
But as Im not persuaded that PRA did anything wrong, I dont consider it fair to award 
compensation or ask PRA to pay for the protective marker service. 
Our investigator has already explained to Mr B what steps he can take to monitor his 
personal and credit information in the future. I leave this with Mr B to action if he chooses. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman