DRN-4287754
The complaint
Mr R complains about a fixed sum loan agreement with Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance, which was taken out in his name.
What happened
In November 2021, an online application was made in Mr Rs name for a fixed sum loan with 
Clydesdale. The application was approved and the loan used to pay for a dining table and 
six chairs. 
The dining furniture was supplied by a retailer, who Ill call X. A feature of the fixed sum loan 
agreement was that repayments would start, once Clydesdale had transferred funds to X.
A few days after the finance application was approved, X delivered the furniture to Mr Rs 
partners address. The dining furniture was made up of several items and Clydesdales 
records show that it was delivered in five separate boxes. At the time of the delivery, Mr R 
says he was renovating his home and had temporarily changed his address to his partners. 
However, despite the delivery being completed on November 2021, Clydesdale didnt pay 
any funds to X until April 2022. This meant Clydesdale didnt start to take the repayments 
from Mr Rs account, until six months after the agreement had been approved.
Mr R says that he noticed the repayments to Clydesdale leaving his account in September 
2022 and took action cancel the direct debit. He says he had other payments leaving his 
account to Clydesdale, which meant he didnt spot the payments for the furniture.
After cancelling the direct debit with Clydesdale, Mr R made a successful indemnity claim to 
get back the four previous payments he had made. He also raised concerns with Clydesdale 
that an unknown third party had applied for the finance, without his knowledge or authority.
Clydesdale sent Mr R a form, which asked for information to enable them to start an 
investigation. But, as it wasnt returned, Clydesdale closed their investigation and continued 
to hold Mr R responsible for the balance of the fixed sum loan agreement.
Mr R didnt accept Clydesdales response and in April 2023, he told them hed been the 
victim of fraud. In their reply, Clydesdale said all of the personal information included on the 
application for the fixed sum loan, matched with Mr Rs details. So, they were satisfied that 
he had applied for the finance. Mr R didnt accept Clydesdales response and brought his 
complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Rs case and found that Clydesdale had treated him 
fairly. She concluded that Mr Rs address, bank account details, and his personal information 
were used in the application. She said Clydesdale had sent emails and a text message to 
Mr R, when the loan was approved. The investigator was also persuaded that Mr R had 
taken delivery of the five boxes from X, based on the delivery records.
Mr R disagreed and said he hardly uses the email address on Clydesdales records. He also 
said he didnt receive the delivery from X and that there is a high level of fraudulent crime in 
the area where the furniture was delivered to.
The investigator didnt change her conclusions and Mr Rs case has now been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first want to say Im sorry to hear about the difficult personal circumstances Mr R has told 
us about. I acknowledge how they impact his day to day life. Id like Mr R to know that Ive 
thought very carefully about what hes told us, about his circumstances, when looking into 
his case against Clydesdale.
I also want to explain that where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The dining furniture was paid for using a fixed sum loan agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement, and our service is able to consider complaints relating to these 
sorts of loans. However, Mr R says he didnt take out the fixed sum loan agreement and he 
doesnt have the furniture supplied by X. 
Clydesdale have provided us with their records from the application made in Mr Rs name. I 
can see from those records that Mr Rs personal information, his postal address and his 
email address were used to complete the application. 
Additionally, Mr Rs mobile telephone number and his bank account details were included 
within the application. The records also show that Clydesdale performed a credit check, 
which makes it clear that Mr R had changed his address to that of his partners.
Having thought about the application, I can see that all the information Clydesdale used 
matched with Mr Rs details. In all the circumstances, I dont think this would have raised any 
suspicion with Clydesdale, that a third party had applied for the loan fraudulently. However, I 
acknowledge where Mr R says how a fraudster could obtain some of this information. So, 
Ive considered the correspondence Clydesdale sent to Mr R about the fixed sum loan 
agreement.
Clydesdales records show they sent three emails in total to Mr R, all to the same email 
address that he has used to correspond with us. Two emails were sent to him in November 
2021, one to confirm the application details and the other to say the loan was approved. The 
third email was sent to Mr R in April 2022, when Clydesdale had paid the funds to X.
The contact log from Clydesdale also shows where they sent a text message to Mr R, later 
in April 2022, to confirm when payments would be taken from his bank account. The mobile 
telephone number used for the text message is the same as Mr R has used in his dealing 
with us.
Having thought about all the evidence here, I think Clydesdale have used the correct contact 
details for Mr R. I acknowledge where Mr R says he rarely uses the email address Ive 
referred to, and that he cannot remember receiving a text message from Clydesdale. But, I 
think it would be unusual for an unknown third party, to have used Mr Rs correct contact 
details, if looking to obtain goods without paying for them. Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr R wasnt made aware by Clydesdale, that the fixed sum 
loan had been opened in his name. So, Ive gone on to consider the evidence about delivery 
of the dining table and the six chairs.
The records provided by X to Clydesdale show where five separate packages, totalling 
135kg in weight, were delivered to Mr Rs partners address in November 2021. The 
signature on the delivery note also clearly shows Mr Rs surname.
Mr R has told us that due to building work being carried out at his previous address, he had 
changed his address to his partners, around the same time as the delivery. So, Im satisfied 
that the dining furniture was delivered to the correct address. I also think the type of goods 
delivered would be considered heavy or bulky, compared to other items such as clothing or a 
mobile telephone.
I accept what Mr R says about the high level of crime, in the area of the delivery address. 
But, having considered all the evidence, the description of the dining set and the possibility 
of a fraudster intercepting the goods at Mr Rs address, Im not persuaded Clydesdale have 
reached an unfair conclusion here.
The statement of transactions for the fixed sum loan, show that Mr R made payments of 
£63.89 to Clydesdale in May, June, July and August 2022. Ive thought about the cost of the 
monthly repayments and the four month period where they were taken from Mr Rs account. 
Having done so, I dont think the repayment amount is insignificant, compared to the other 
payments Mr R regularly made to his other borrowing. So, Im persuaded that Mr R ought 
reasonably to have been aware that he was making repayments towards a different loan.
I acknowledge that Mr R says he finds it difficult to monitor individual transactions leaving or 
being credited to his account. But, I dont think this means he wasnt made aware that new 
repayments were debiting his bank account.
Ive found that all the details on the application match Mr Rs personal information and that 
four repayments were made towards the agreement from his bank account. Additionally, 
Clydesdale have shown where they wrote to Mr R during the application and again, just 
before the payments started. Furthermore, Xs records show where five separate boxes 
were delivered and signed for at the address Mr R was using.
On balance, I dont think Clydesdale are acting unfairly by deciding that the most likely thing 
to have happened, is that Mr R took out the fixed sum loan agreement. Therefore, I dont find 
I have the grounds to direct Clydesdale to stop pursuing Mr R for the outstanding debt owed 
under the loan.
Im aware that following my findings, Clydesdale or their representatives, may start to 
contact Mr R to make arrangements for the repayment of the balance of the loan. In doing 
so, I remind Clydesdale of their responsibility to treat Mr Rs financial circumstances with due 
consideration and forbearance. 
This may mean, amongst other things, Clydesdale carefully considering Mr Rs income and 
expenditure to put together an affordable repayment plan with him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman