DRN-1245934
 
The complaint
S, represented by Mr G a director, complains about not being given a promised refund of the 
costs of issuing a large number of debit cards.
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr G ordered 95 debit cards for use by the business. He says he explained to the 
Advanced Payment representative why he needed so many cards and was assured 
they wouldnt have security features which would impede their use in the companys 
automated systems. But Mr G says it became apparent they did and so he cancelled 
them. Advanced Payment says its terms and conditions on its website mention some 
security features and Mr G shouldve been aware of them. 
Whatever happened at that time and whatever the parties, website and terms and 
conditions said the simple fact here is that Advanced Payments system notes record 
that it agreed unconditionally, in a phone conversation with Mr G starting at 15.27 on 
13 May 2019, to cancel the cards it had sent out and to reverse the £5.95 fees it had 
charged for each of their issue. 
It was only about half an hour later that the internal system notes say approval had to 
be sought for this fee reversal. And on the next day that approval wasnt given. Mr G 
was only told the fees wouldnt be reversed sometime after that.
Taking everything into account I dont think on balance that Advanced Payments has 
acted fairly or reasonably by changing its mind and refusing to make the agreed fee 
reversals. Mr G was told the fees would be reversed and there was no mention at 
that time of any further approval being needed. I think he was therefore entitled to 
rely on that unconditional agreement to provide the fee reversals. Furthermore, Mr G 
wasnt promptly told the reversals wouldnt be made and he relied on the original 
agreement when making different corporate banking arrangements that met the 
company's needs.
Overall I think Advanced Payments should refund to S each and every £5.95 fee it 
took for the issue of these cards (whether that is for the 95 cards Mr G ordered or the 
97 he says he actually received or indeed any other number S was charged for).
Mr G would also like compensation for his time taken in sorting things out. But I 
cannot compensate him for his personal time as he isnt a customer of Advanced 
Payments. 
Additionally consumers, like S, or their representatives, like Mr G here, spend some 
time and experience some additional inconvenience in dealing with a problem, 
complaint and putting things right. We wouldnt generally recommend theyre compensated for this and Im not persuaded that I can reasonably depart from this 
approach in this case.
 
For these reasons I uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
and to put things right it should refund to S all the fees it applied and took for the issuing of 
each of these debit cards. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman