DRN-2176024
The complaint
Mr S says Morses Club PLC (Morses) irresponsibly lent to him. Mr S says the loans were 
too easy to obtain and they have had a catastrophic impact on his credit file.
What happened
This complaint is about six home collected credit loans provided to Mr S between July 2014 
and February 2018. Mr Ss borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidWeekly 
InstalmentsAmount Highest 
weekly
Repayment
1 11/07/2014 24/12/2015 50 £300.00 £10.50
2 15/01/2016 17/11/2016 33 £200.00 £10.00
3 29/11/2016 04/07/2017 33 £300.00 £15.00
4 04/07/2017 12/02/2018 33 £300.00 £15.00
5 02/12/2017 01/11/2018 33 £200.00 £10 (*£25)
6 12/02/2018 21/06/2019 33 £300.00 £15 (*£25)
*Repayment for overlapping loans. 
Our adjudicator reviewed Mr Ss complaint and thought that the complaint should be upheld 
from loan four onwards because the Mr S was becoming reliant on this type of lending. 
Morses didnt agree with the adjudicator about loans four and five but it did offer redress for 
loan six. It said four loans in 36 months was equivalent to taking one loan a year. It also said 
there were breaks in lending between some of the loans. It undertook detailed affordability 
checks when loans four and five were provided and verified Mr Ss income and expenditure. 
We put the offer to Mr S, but she didnt want to accept it. 
Another of our adjudicators reconsidered Mr Ss complaint. As well as loans four to six being 
upheld they thought loan three should also be upheld. This was because of the length of 
time it had taken Mr S to repay loans one and two which should have caused Morses to look 
further into his financial circumstances and they thought that if it had, it would have found 
other outstanding short-term lending. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a final decision in my 
role as ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Morses was required to establish 
whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr S didnt comment on the second adjudicators opinion that loans one and two shouldnt 
be upheld. And Morses has already made an offer for loan six. Because of this, I dont think 
there is an ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a decision about 
this lending. But the loans were part of the borrowing relationship Mr S had with Morses. So, 
it is something I will take into account when considering the other loans he took. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. Having done so, I am partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
I should first address Morses comment about there being gaps in lending. There was a 
three-week gap between loan one being repaid and loan two being taken and a twelve-day 
gap between loan two being repaid and loan three being taken. I dont agree these gaps 
were sufficiently long enough for Morses to have reasonably assumed that Mr S had overcome whatever the financial circumstances were that caused him to take this type of 
lending in the first instance, and particularly bearing in mind the length of the borrowing 
relationship at the time of the gaps. A break in lending effectively starts the clock ticking 
again on what we would consider proportionate checks for the business to have carried out. 
So, Im treating all of the loans as one chain of lending.
Like the adjudicator I think the length of time it took Mr S to repay loans one and two  when 
compared to the loan term agreed at the outset  should have alerted it the potential of Mr S 
having problems managing his money and reconsider whether the lending was sustainable. 
Loan one was to be repaid over 50 weeks, but it took Mr S 72 weeks to repay it. And loan 
two was repaid over 43 weeks compared to the agreed term of 33 weeks. The weekly 
repayments were relatively small so the fact that Mr S struggled to make those weekly 
repayments should have raised concerns with Morses. 
In taking action about its concerns I think Morses should have done more to build a better 
picture of Mr Ss financial circumstances over and above the information it already had about 
Mr Ss income and expenditure by carrying out additional checks. If it had done so, it is most 
likely to have seen that Mr S also had at least three outstanding loans from other short-term 
credit providers. I think this was enough to have suggested to Morses that Mrs S was having 
problems managing his money and wasnt going to be able to sustainably repay loan three.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending history with Mr S, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ss case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
four. I say this because:
At this point Morses ought to have realised Mr S was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr S had been indebted to Morses for 36 months. So Morses 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr S was having to borrow further 
to supplement his income.
Mr Ss first loan was for £300 and loan four was for the same amount.  At this point 
Morses ought to have known that Mr S was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary 
shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need. I also note that at loan five, Mr S 
started taking out further loans at the same time as the previous loan was still 
running. 
Mr S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Morses. Loan six was 
taken out three and a half years after Mr Ss first. And it was for the same amount.   
Mr S had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr S lost out because Morses continued to provide borrowing from loan four 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr S borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr Ss ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loans three to six and 
Morses should put things right.
Putting things right
Morses has already made an offer for loan six but for completeness, Im including it here 
along with the other upheld loans. 
refund all interest and charges Mr S paid on loans three to six;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan three from Mr Ss credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan four onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So, all entries about loans four to six should be removed from       
Mr Ss credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to take off tax from this interest. Morses must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
Im partially upholding Mr Ss complaint. Morses Club PLC should put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman