DRN-2652579
The complaint
Mr W complains that Marshall Motor Group Ltd (MMG) mis-sold him finance when he was 
acquiring a car. He also says he wasnt provided with the information about his cancellation 
rights.
What happened
In July 2020, MMG (acting as a credit broker) arranged a hire purchase agreement (HPA) for 
Mr W with a finance provider as part of his acquisition of a car. Following the part exchange 
of Mr Ws previous vehicle and including the additional warranties he acquired, this left an 
amount to be financed of £3,850. Mr W says that he wasnt provided information on all the 
options available to him and instead was told the best product for him was a personal 
contract purchase with cashback meaning he would borrow a total of £10,000. He says he 
was told he shouldnt pay off any lump sum in the first month. 
Mr W says that after entering the finance agreement he realised that he had taken on more 
debt than he needed by agreeing to the cashback. He also said the finance option he was 
provided with wasnt advertised on MMGs website which he thought raised concerns about 
how legitimate an option it was. He says he wasnt told about the 14 day cooling off period or 
that he had 30 days to cancel his warranties. Mr W contacted the finance provider on 10 
August to withdraw from the finance agreement but at this time he hadnt received the 
cashback payment. He says he then found the cashback payment would be provided by the 
dealer not the finance provider. 
Mr W contacted the relevant parties in order to cancel is finance agreement and says he 
wasnt provided with the service he should have been.
MMG says that when Mr W was looking to acquire a car the balance due after his part 
exchange and including warranties was £3,850 however the minimum finance amount was 
£10,000. It says Mr W chose to borrow £10,000 which meant he received a £500 deposit 
allowance. The difference of £6,650 was a cashback payment to be made by the dealer. It 
says Mr W signed the order form which provided a breakdown of the figures and that the 
finance agreement also contained the financial details.
Following the issues Mr W experienced when trying to withdraw from his agreement, MMG 
refunded him the additional interest that had been incurred.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that the provision of the cashback 
wasnt a regulated activity and that he could only consider the issues raised about MMG 
regarding its role as credit broker arranging the initial finance. He didnt think there was 
enough evidence to say the finance agreement had been misrepresented to Mr W and noted 
that Mr W had exited the agreement and not incurred any financial loss. 
Mr W didnt accept our investigators view. He said that MMG had provided false figures for 
inclusion in the finance documents as the part exchange amount he received was £27,000 
whereas the deposit amount in the finance agreement was £20,850. He reiterated that he 
hadnt been offered all the finance options available, noting specifically the straight forward 
hire purchase agreement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ws strength of feeling regarding the issues he has raised in his complaint. 
There are limits on the complaints we can consider, and these include issues such as 
whether the issue complained about relates to a regulated activity. In this case, Mr W 
entered into a regulated finance agreement as part of the process of acquiring a car and as 
this was arranged by MMG I have considered Mr Ws complaint about MMG in its role as 
credit broker.
Mr W says that the finance was mis-sold. He says he wasnt provided with all the options 
available to him. He says he was told the best option for him was a cashback option which 
he says isnt advertised in the literature and it wasnt made clear where the money for the 
cashback would come from. He also says that he wasnt provided with information about his 
cancellation rights for the finance agreement and warranties.
I have looked at the agreement Mr W signed, and this is a hire purchase agreement. I 
understand the issue Mr W has raised and that he says he wasnt offered a straight forward 
hire purchase agreement. I cannot say what was discussed at the time, but I note Mr W 
signed a document which listed the options available and confirmed his choice of the hire 
purchase agreement. The vehicle order form set out all the financing details and the finance 
agreement set out its terms and financial details. Therefore, on balance, I find that Mr W was 
provided with the information he needed to decide whether to enter into the finance 
agreement.
As part of the transaction for the car, Mr W part exchanged another vehicle. He was 
provided with £27,000 for the part exchange, this is set out in the vehicle order form. The 
cost of the car Mr W was acquiring was £29,980 and he also acquired warranties costing 
£870 given a total cost of £30,850. The net amount to finance was therefore £3,850. It has 
been explained that in order to benefit from a dealer deposit contribution of £500, an amount 
of £10,000 needed to be financed. To make this happen the dealer structured the 
transaction to include £6,650 of cashback. I note the comments Mr W has made about this 
not being a known financing route but the finance agreement he entered was a hire 
purchase which is a regulated agreement. The cashback amount was an agreement 
between Mr W and the dealer. I appreciate Mr Ws comments that he wasnt made aware 
the cashback was coming from the dealer but as this amount was part of a separate 
arrangement and was clearly set out in the vehicle order form, I find, on balance that Mr W 
was made aware of the cashback amount and the reasons this was provided. It also follows 
that he was aware at this time he was borrowing more than he would have needed as part of 
the hire purchase agreement. 
Mr W has said he was told he could pay back a lump sum shortly after acquisition but not in 
the first month. I can understand why this type of comment could raise concerns, but I think 
this shows that Mr W was aware he was borrowing more than he needed to and that he 
could repay this shortly after acquisition to reduce the amount he would owe under the hire 
purchase agreement.
Mr W has raised concerns about the different amounts included in the vehicle order form and 
the hire purchase agreement. I understand this is confusing as he part exchanged his 
vehicle for £27,000 but a deposit of £20850 is recorded on the hire purchase agreement. However, I do not find that I can say this is incorrect. The hire purchase agreement records 
the net deposit amount contributed towards the cost of the car. In this case that was the part 
exchange amount of £27,000 less the cashback that was to be provided to Mr W. Additional 
to this was the £500 deposit contribution he received. This gives the £20,850 amount that is 
recorded. As the vehicle cost and deposit amounts in the hire purchase agreement correlate 
with the information set out on the vehicle order form I do not find I can say that there has 
been a misrepresentation of the figures.
Mr W says he wasnt told about the cooling off period. I note the hire purchase agreement 
set out Mr Ws right to withdraw and his right to settle the agreement early. Therefore, while I 
think it would have been helpful for this to be explained to Mr W at the time of acquisition, I 
have nothing to suggest he asked about this and as I find that the agreement contained the 
information he needed to make an informed decision, I do not find I can require MMG to do 
anything further in regard to this.
There were issues when Mr W was trying to exit his agreement as the cashback hadnt been 
paid and there were delays in the process. This wasnt part of the initial credit broking, but I 
note that MMG did, as a gesture of goodwill. refund Mr W the additional interest he incurred 
on the hire purchase agreement so that he was able to exit at no cost. I also understand his 
warranties were cancelled at no additional cost to him. 
Overall, while I understand the concerns Mr W has raised, I do not find that I can say the hire 
purchase agreement he entered was misrepresented. I note Mr W has exited the agreement 
at no cost and so while I appreciate the issues have caused him distress ad inconvenience 
as I do not find I can say the agreement was misrepresented I do not find I can uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Marshall Motor Group Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman