DRN-3122615
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Plc (RSA) have unfairly declined their 
claim under their home insurance policy.
References to Mr C or Mrs C, will include the other.
There are several parties and representatives of RSA involved throughout the claim but for 
the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to RSA.
What happened
Mr C had his van broken in to when it was parked on the street outside his home address.
It is believed that the van was accessed by thieves using a master key as there was no 
damage to the outside of the van. Items from inside were stolen and some damage was 
caused inside the van.
Mr C reported the incident to the police, and he made a claim on his home insurance policy 
for the items that were stolen. 
RSA declined to pay the claim as it said it was not covered by the terms of his insurance 
policy. 
Mr C says that the decision to decline is incorrect and that his claim should be included 
under the out and about cover  which in the policy it states it is to cover loss or damage 
to personal items in or away from your home.
RSA say that they have declined the claim as they have applied the following exclusion 
under the out and about cover - what we dont cover  theft from unattended motor 
vehicles unless at the time of the loss or damage force and violence were used to get into 
the motor vehicle. It said the use of such a master key to gain entry didnt amount to force 
and violence.
As Mr C was not happy with RSAs decision he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He looked in to the case and did not think that RSA 
had acted fairly and should accept that violence was used in addition to force. He 
recommended that it should settle Mr Cs claim in line within the limits under the policy.
As RSA are unhappy with our investigators view the case has been brought to me for a final 
decision to be made.
In my provisional decision I said 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am issuing my response as a provisional decision as my reasoning is not quite the same as 
the investigators. 
It is clear that Mr C paid for the additional Out and About cover with his home insurance 
policy. This additional cover is for loss or damage to personal items in or away from home so 
it is reasonable to accept that he would think he was covered for the damage and stolen 
items when his van was broken in to and items stolen. 
I have looked at the most likely way the the theft happened and also at the details of Mr Cs 
home insurance policy cover.
There is no doubt that there was a theft from Mr Cs van. I think it is fair to say that illegal 
means were used to enter the van for the theft to take place and it is accepted by both RSA 
and the police that a master key was used to do this.
Mr C said that the theft had really upset him, and he felt that the thieves ransacking his van 
and personal items certainly felt like force and violence had been used. 
RSA state that they do not perceive thieves using a master key to break in to the van as both 
forcible and violent and they require both to be used for the claim to be covered under the 
terms of Mr Cs policy. 
The exclusion applied by RSA in this case is:
What we dont cover " - "Theft from unattended motor vehicles - unless at the time of loss or 
damage force and violence were used to get into the motor vehicle, and the items stolen 
were out of sight in a boot or closed compartment."
I have considered RSAs view but on this occasion I do not agree that the exclusion has 
been applied fairly for the following reason.
In circumstances where it is accepted that the theft definitely did occur and where the illegal 
method of entry, has been accepted by both the police and RSA, then I dont think its a fair 
and reasonable outcome that Mr Cs claim isnt being paid.
I intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and require RSA to settle their claim in line with 
the limits provided under their policy minus any excess. In addition 8% simple interest per 
annum should be applied from the date of loss to date of settlement.  I also require RSA to 
pay them £50 compensation for the frustration and upset caused to them by RSA when 
handling their claim.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr C responded to say he had received the provisional decision and had no more to add.
RSA did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further evidence has been presented by Mr C and there has been no response from 
RSA, I maintain my provisional decision.I dont agree the exclusion has been applied fairly by RSA on Mr Cs home insurance policy 
and it should settle his claim.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.
I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Plc to settle their claim 
in line with the limits provided under their policy minus any excess. In addition 8% simple 
interest per annum should be applied from the date of loss to date of settlement.   
I also require Royal & Sun Alliance Plc to pay Mr and Mrs C £50 compensation for the 
frustration and upset caused to them when handling their claim.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman