DRN-3980177
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc did not tell them when they took a 
payment deferral due to the pandemic that this would result in their monthly repayments 
being recalculated once the payment deferral came to an end.
To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs D want to be compensated for what they say is the 
financial detriment caused by the banks actions.
Mr D has dealt with the complaint with us on behalf of both himself and Mrs D.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs D being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Mr and Mrs D have a mortgage with HSBC taken out in 2017. Until 31 December 2022 the 
mortgage was on a fixed rate of interest. The monthly repayments during the fixed rate 
period were just over £1,000 per month. The mortgage terms and conditions allowed 
overpayments of up to 10% of the outstanding balance each year without incurring an early 
repayment charge.
In October 2018 Mr and Mrs D made an overpayment of £24,000. In September 2019 they 
made an overpayment of £20,000. 
In March 2020, because of the pandemic, and in line with Government and Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) requirements, HSBC offered customers a payment deferral if they 
were in, or were about to experience, financial hardship due to COVID-19. 
In April 2020 Mr and Mrs D applied for a three-month payment deferral. On 21 April 2020 
HSBC confirmed its agreement to this and said it would confirm before the payment deferral 
ended the impact of the accrued interest on the monthly repayments.
On 2 July 2020 HSBC wrote to Mr and Mrs D to explain that their new monthly repayments 
would be just over £820 per month until the end of the fixed rate period. Mr and Mrs D 
queried this and were told that this was because the capital overpayments theyd made had 
reduced the capital balance, and so the new monthly repayment took this into account.
Mr and Mrs D complained, saying that theyd been robbed of the ability to make 
overpayments to the mortgage. In response to the complaint, HSBC explained that, when 
recalculating the new payment it had to take into account the need to repay the mortgage by 
the end of the term, but because there had been overpayments, this reduced the capital 
balance, and so it was that balance on which the new repayments had been calculated. 
Therefore, even though the mortgage was still within the fixed-rate period, the repayments 
had reduced by almost £200 per month. 
HSBC acknowledged that it could have been clearer about explaining how overpayments 
would impact recalculation of the monthly payments, and offered compensation of £200 for 
this. HSBC also set up a flexible overpayment to enable Mr and Mrs D to increase their 
repayments to the previous level, but the bank explained that these monthly overpayments 
would come out of the annual overpayment allowance. As a result, Mr and Mrs D were able 
to increase their monthly payment by almost £195 per month as a regular overpayment, and 
in January 2022 made another ad hoc lump sum payment of just over £14,300.
After the fixed rate came to an end in December 2022, Mr and Mrs D took out a two-year 
fixed rate, which expires on 31 March 2025. This also allows for overpayments of up to 10% 
of the balance each year.
Mr and Mrs D brought their complaint to our service. Mr D explained on the complaint form 
that they took the payment deferral because of financial uncertainty, in case they 
desperately needed the money. Their plan was to put the money they saved on mortgage 
repayments, if not needed for an emergency, back into the mortgage as part of an 
overpayment.  
Mr D told us that he is angry that he didnt keep a closer eye on the payments being taken 
from the account. He felt he had been robbed of the ability to make overpayments. Mr D said 
he was stressed about not being able to work out how much additional interest hes been 
charged as a result of this.
Mr D wanted HSBC to re-set his payments to the full amount under the initial fixed rate and 
give him the full overpayment allowance so he can overpay as he would have done without 
any penalty.
An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He thought the £200 compensation offered by HSBC for not clarifying how 
overpayments would impact the payment calculation was fair. But he was satisfied that 
HSBC had recalculated the payments correctly and that the bank was entitled to take into 
account the overpayments and the reduced balance when doing this. 
The investigator didnt think there was any financial detriment, because the overpayments 
have reduced the mortgage balance and as a result the interest charged.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He said he has done everything he can to pay off the mortgage ahead of the term 
and didnt want debt hanging over his head to some banker who will splurge thousands of 
pounds in expenses on a night out in London. Mr D says that his ability to reduce the 
mortgage was taken away.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons.HSBC offered COVID-19 payment deferrals, as it was required to do by the FCA, to 
customers who either were already in financial hardship due to the pandemic, or who 
believed they were about to suffer financial hardship. HSBC was required to explain to 
customers the implications of taking a payment deferral in relation to future monthly 
repayments, which it did. However, the bank wasnt required to tailor this information to 
explain how it would factor in any overpayments when recalculating the monthly repayments. 
I can appreciate that Mr and Mrs D were unhappy that their monthly repayments had 
reduced, but Im satisfied that HSBC was entitled to use the actual capital balance (including 
capital reductions made by Mr and Mrs D) when recalculating the monthly repayments at the 
end of the payment deferral.
HSBC has acknowledged that it could have been clearer about this. I think the £200 already 
paid by HSBC for its lack of clarity is fair and reasonable. HSBC also set up a flexible 
arrangement to enable Mr and Mrs D to increase their monthly payments to the previous 
level. I dont think it was unreasonable that those overpayments would be offset against the 
annual overpayment allowance.
However, Im not persuaded that, even if Mr and Mrs D had been told that their previous 
overpayments would be applied towards reducing the capital balance before they applied for 
the payment deferral, it would have made any difference. The form Mr and Mrs D completed 
when applying for the payment deferral required them to confirm that they had been, or were 
expecting to be, financially impacted by COVID-19. 
Given this, I think that, even if HSBC had provided an illustration of how their repayments 
might change at the end of the payment deferral, Mr and Mrs D would still have gone ahead. 
I say this because the payment deferral application form explains that interest will continue 
to accrue daily and will be added to the outstanding balance. In the circumstances, I think its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs D would have applied for this  knowing it would result in additional 
interest being charged  unless they had truly needed the payment deferral.
Mr D has said that hes unable to calculate whether or not hes suffered any financial 
detriment as a result of the capital reductions in the mortgage balance being factored into 
the recalculated monthly repayment. However, it seems to me that, because the capital 
balance is lower, less interest will be charged over the remaining term. 
However, its always open to Mr and Mrs D to have their account independently audited, at 
their own expense. If this audit was to show that Mr and Mrs D had suffered any detriment 
that could be attributed to any act or omission on the part of HSBC, they could bring a fresh 
complaint about this, and claim the cost of the audit in any redress. This service doesnt 
provide an auditing service, and we dont act for consumers, so it isnt something we are 
able to do for Mr and Mrs D.
Overall, I think the £200 paid by HSBC is fair and reasonable and so I dont think HSBC is 
required to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman