DRN-3937115
Complaint
Mrs A says that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) unfairly recorded adverse 
information on her credit file as a result of being in an unarranged overdraft.
Background
In August 2020, as Mrs A had been overdrawn by more than the amount of her arranged 
overdraft limit from 1 July until 6 August and this placed her in an unarranged overdraft for 
more than 30 days, First Direct reported to credit reference agencies that Mrs A had been in 
an unarranged overdraft for one month. 
Upon learning that this information had been recorded, Mrs A complained. First Direct didnt 
uphold Mrs As complaint. It said that it was industry standard to report to credit reference 
agencies when an unarranged overdraft was used for more than 30 days and this was also 
in its overdraft terms and conditions. 
As Mrs A remained dissatisfied at First Directs response she referred her complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs As concerns. She didnt think that First Direct had 
done anything wrong or treated Mrs A unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. 
Mrs A disagreed with the investigator and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mrs As complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
The first thing for me to say is that Ive looked at Mrs As current account statements and its 
clear to see that she was over her agreed overdraft limit from 1 July 2020 until she went into 
credit for a day on 6 August 2020. 
So Im satisfied that the information First Direct reported to credit reference agencies was 
accurate. 
Mrs A argues that it was unfair for First Direct to report this information. She says she didnt 
know her that her credit file would be affected in this way because the information she was 
sent about the help available as a result of the pandemic didnt mention anything about 
adverse information being reported to credit reference agencies.
Ive not been provided with a copy of the information Mrs A says she was provided with. 
However, what Ive been provided with suggests that First Directs literature explained that 
as a result of the pandemic it had temporarily decided not to charge additional interest when 
a customer went into an unarranged overdraft. But I cant see that any of the literature from 
the time said that information wouldnt be reported to credit reference agencies. 
On the contrary, the extracts from Ive seen from First Directs website stated that a 
customer being over the agreed overdraft limit will affect the customers credit rating. 
Furthermore, Ive also seen an extract from an email which looks like it was sent to all First 
Direct customers in May 2020 to explain the temporary measures that were in place for 
arranged overdrafts. This email stated that if a customer was in an unarranged overdraft for 
greater than 30 days this could have a negative impact on your credit file. 
Mrs A says that First Direct should have told her that her credit file would be impacted and 
that telling her it could be impacted was insufficient. But First Direct isnt responsible for 
credit files or credit ratings. Such matters are the responsibility of the credit reference 
agencies. 
So First Direct wasnt in a position to say exactly if and how Mrs As credit rating would be 
impacted  especially as it wouldnt have been aware how much Mrs A would be in an 
unarranged overdraft for and for how long and it wont have known precisely how such 
information would be regarded by the credit reference agencies either. 
In these circumstances, I dont think that it was unreasonable for First Direct to say being in 
an unarranged overdraft for more than 30 days could have a negative impact on her credit 
file. And Im satisfied that this information was sufficient such that Mrs A ought reasonably to 
have been aware that being in an unarranged overdraft for more than 30 days could have a 
negative impact on her credit file, before she went into unarranged overdraft for more than 
30 days.  
I know Mrs A says that she would have acted differently if she had been told that adverse 
information would be reported to credit reference agencies. But even though I dont think that 
First Direct needed to go as far as saying Mrs As credit file would be negatively impacted, 
as Mrs A went into an unarranged overdraft for a further 18 days the day after she brought 
her overdraft back within its limit, its difficult for me to agree that she would, or could, have 
taken alternative action. 
And, in these circumstances, as First Direct was and remains under an obligation to provide 
accurate information, I dont think that it unfairly reported Mrs As unarranged overdraft 
usage to credit reference agencies. 
So overall and having considered everything and while I appreciate that this will be very 
disappointing for Mrs A, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mrs As complaint. 
I know that Mrs A feels strongly about this matter and that shes unlikely to agree. But I hope 
that shell understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that her concerns have 
been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs As complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman