DRN-1477803
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in August 2004 when Mr S took out a credit card. Mr S says Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays) mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
Mr S applied for a credit card in 2004 by postal application. When Barclays called Mr S 
about his application he was sold a PPI policy to cover his credit card payments. The policy 
cost £0.79 per £100 of the balance on Mr Ss credit card. A successful claim on the policy 
wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding balance for up to 12 months per claim if Mr S was 
unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Ss complaint should be upheld because he thought Mr S 
wouldve understood he had a choice in taking the policy and thought it wouldve provided a 
useful benefit.
Mr S disagrees. He says he didnt know he had the policy and that he would never have 
agreed to take out PPI. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
From what we know about how Barclays sold PPI over the phone and the call script the 
sales advisor wouldve been following at the time, I think Mr S wouldve understood the 
policy was optional. And I think Mr S wouldve had PPI applied to his account because he 
chose to take it when asked if he wanted the policy rather than anything else  although I 
can understand why he cant remember this.
If Mr S hadnt agreed to PPI I wouldve expected him to question why Payment Protection 
was showing on his monthly credit card statements and for him to have cancelled the policy. 
Barclays say it recommended Mr S take the policy. What this means is that Barclays not only 
had to provide information about the policy in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that   
Mr S could make an informed choice about buying it. It also had to make sure that if it were 
to recommend the policy that it was suitable to his needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Barclays did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr S for the following reasons:
He was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any 
of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made 
it difficult to make a successful claim. 
At the time of the sale Mr S says he was entitled to some sick pay which he could 
use to make his repayments if he couldnt work. But the policy wouldve paid out on 
top of this and covered him if he lost his job - for up to 12 months. So I think the 
policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr S in his circumstances. 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to him at the time. And 
if he no longer wanted the policy he couldve cancelled it. 
I also need to consider whether Barclays gave Mr S information in a way which was clear, 
fair and not misleading so that he could make a proper choice about whether or not he 
wanted to take the policy out. 
I dont know if Barclays did provide all the proper information but even if it hadnt for the 
same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what Mr S has told us about his 
circumstances at the time, I think he wouldve still taken out the policy if hed been given all 
the proper information on it.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
When the policy was sold, Barclays expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. 
Because Barclays didnt tell Mr S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays BANK UK PLC does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman