DRN-4179952
The complaint
Ms B has complained that HSBC Life (UK) Limited has mishandled and wrongly declined a 
claim she made under her Level Term Assurance policy.  
What happened
Ms B took out the policy, which included Critical Illness benefit, in 2003 for a twenty-year 
term. She made a claim under the critical illness cover section of her policy in August 2022. 
When HSBC Life declined her claim, she referred a complaint to our service.
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint was upheld. They didnt find that Ms B 
met the policy definition in order for the claim to be paid. They also didnt find that the claim 
had been mis-handled.
Ms B appealed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly though Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint and some 
sensitive medical details. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I 
find are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I 
havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Ive fully reviewed the complete file and 
considered the representations Ms B has made Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. I recognise 
that Ms B will be very disappointed my decision and Im sorry this decision doesnt bring 
more welcome news. But for the following reasons I agree with the conclusion reached by 
our investigator:
It is not disputed that Ms B was placed in an induced come following a fall in March 
2022. However for her claim to be admitted Ms B needed to show that she met the 
policy definition of coma. This is: A state of unconsciousness with no reaction to 
external stimuli or internal needs, persisting continuously with the use of life support 
systems for a period of at least 96 hours and resulting in permanent neurological 
deficit before age 60. Coma secondary to alcohol or drug misuse is not covered. 
HSBC Life asked a Consultant Neurologist to provide an independent medical report 
following an examination. I find this was fair as the evidence prior to this had been 
inconclusive. Ill refer to the Consultant Neurologist as Dr R. Dr R explained what 
symptoms Ms B was experiencing but was unable to confirm whether they would be 
permanent without further investigations including an MRI scan of Ms Bs brain and 
spine and a consultation with a neuropsychologist. To date Ms B has not submitted 
that medical evidence. It follows that the evidence before me does not show that Ms 
B suffered permanent neurological deficit, as required by the policy definition. This 
being so I dont find that HSBC Life treated Ms B unfairly or contrary to her policy 
terms by declining her claim.
Ms B asks that it is accepted that she is telling the truth. I should point out that is not 
in question. The test here is whether she met the policy definition of coma, and 
although she has clearly been through a difficult and traumatic time, as explained the 
medical evidence doesnt support that she did.
I have not disregarded Ms Bs contention that HSBC Life mishandled her claim, but I 
dont find any evidence that this was so. Although it is for Ms B to show that she met 
the policy definition, HSBC Life referred the case to its Chief medical Officer who 
recommended that a Consultant Neurologist was instructed. As noted above I find 
this was fair. HSBC Life offered to consider any further information Ms B provided 
before her policy expired. Again, I find this was reasonable. And although the policy 
expired in July 2023, if Ms B does now have evidence she would like HSBC Life to 
consider referring to the period prior to the policy expiry date, she should send that 
directly to HSBC Life.
Ms B feels that there has been a lack of consistent communication but having looked 
at the communication she received I dont find there were inconsistencies. I find to 
that the claim was handled promptly and fairly with HSBC Life seeking further 
information where appropriate and requesting an independent examination when the 
evidence was inconclusive.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman