The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd told him it was closing his account without notice and 
froze his funds.
What happened
Mr G was contacted by Monzo on 30 September to say it would be closing his account. It 
froze his account and asked for details of another account with a different company that it 
could transfer the money to. Mr G provided these details on 2 October. On 7 October Monzo 
determined it had made an error and said Mr G could continue to use his account as normal. 
However due to what had happened, Mr G no longer wanted to bank with Monzo.
Mr G complained to Monzo after it told him it was closing the account. It replied on 4 October 
and at this time said it didnt consider it had done anything wrong. However, it then offered 
him £150 when he then brought his complaint to our service. It acknowledged at this time 
that the position had changed and it had made a mistake.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said the £150 offered was fair. Mr G didnt 
accept the offer and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said he disagreed they could 
close his account without good reason, he was unhappy they froze his money and that he 
wasnt offered an apology or compensation for the inconvenience this caused him. So the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In relation to the closure of Mr Gs account, I appreciate why hes frustrated the account 
was due to close and more so that he wasnt given a reason. However, Monzo isnt required 
to give him a reason to end their banking relationship. And this term isnt an unusual term 
across the industry for a bank account. There are certain situations where a bank is entitled 
to close the account and Im satisfied Monzo did do what was required of it here. And when 
a bank account is being closed in this way, it will often be frozen. Again I appreciate the 
inconvenience this caused Mr G, but I dont consider Monzo was wrong to do this. I of 
course understand it later said this was done in error, but I consider it followed the process it 
was required to when it was looking to close the account.
In relation to an apology and compensation, Monzo has offered £150 since the case came to 
our service. I understand that it didnt initially apologise or award compensation, however 
this was because at that time it didnt uphold his complaint. Since then, it has acknowledged 
a mistake and made him the offer as an apology.
DRN-1964637Ive considered the situation Mr G was in and the length of time he was without his account. I 
agree he is due compensation, as he went a week without use of his bank account and this 
wouldve been a stressful and difficult time for him. However, considering the situation hes 
described, I think the offer made is in line with what I wouldve awarded. The amount isnt to 
punish Monzo for the mistake, its to compensate Mr G for his distress. And in this case, I 
consider £150 is fair, so Im not asking Monzo to increase its offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. I consider the £150 offer to 
him as a resolution to this case is fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman