DRN-3326081
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) have recorded a marker against 
him with the fraud prevention agency CIFAS. Hed like this marker to be removed.
What happened
Mr M held a current account with RBS. In May 2017 there were a number of transactions 
made using Mr Ms debit card that took the account significantly over the available balance. 
RBS took the decision to close the account immediately. They also recorded a record with 
the fraud prevention service, CIFAS, against Mr M.
In May 2020 Mr M complained to RBS about the closure, and the CIFAS marker. He said the 
marker was making it difficult for him to open accounts elsewhere. RBS looked in to what 
happened but didnt feel theyd done anything wrong. They said the terms of Mr Ms account 
allowed them to close the account in the way they did, and in the circumstances when there 
is suspected fraudulent activity they can place markers.
Unhappy with this response Mr M referred the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked in to what happened, but didnt think RBS had been unreasonable. They 
felt RBS had acted within their terms in closing Mr Ms accounts. The investigator also 
outlined the standards that need to be met before a financial business can record a marker 
with CIFAS, and explained they felt this standard had been met.
Mr M disagreed with this, so the case was passed tome for a final decision. Having reviewed 
the evidence I agreed that RBS hadnt done anything wrong but wanted to expand on the 
reasoning of the investigator. I issued my provisional decision, which read:
The investigator outlined the tests that apply if a firm wants to apply a marker with CIFAS, so 
I wont repeat them in full here. But the key consideration is that to record a CIFAS marker 
RBS need to be able to demonstrate that Mr M has deliberately tried to use his account 
fraudulently. 
This needs to go beyond mere suspicion or concern. To meet this standard of proof RBS 
need to have carried out sufficient checks, and retain evidence of these checks. This should 
include giving the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity of their account. 
Based on the timings of the account closure and the recording of the CIFAS marker, the 
main concerns are a number of transactions at a pay-at-pump machine that left Mr Ms 
account significantly overdrawn.
These type of transactions are authorised using the chip and PIN of a card before the 
amount of the transaction is known. This means its possible to approve payments for values 
in excess in the available balance. This could be done accidentally, but its also possible for 
this to be done deliberately in an attempt to defraud the bank.
In this case Mr Ms account had a balance of around £14. There are eight transactions for 
values higher than that in quick succession, including five for the maximum amount of £99. 
This strongly suggests to me someone was deliberately trying to make use of more funds 
than are available in the account.
Ive considered whether RBS then have enough evidence to demonstrate Mr M was aware 
of this happening, and was complicit in it. Unfortunately they dont seem to have carried out 
a great deal of investigation at the time, so the contemporary evidence isnt comprehensive. 
However, because of the type of transactions I know the genuine card and PIN would have 
been required.
Mr M doesnt seem to have reported losing his card, or disputing any of the transaction, at 
the time. When our service has asked Mr M about this he cant recall any specific about his 
card, but said he used to misplace his card a lot. Ive considered this, but there doesnt seem 
to be a reasonable explanation of how someone other than Mr M would then come to know 
his PIN. I also note that Mr M hasnt necessarily disputed making the transactions, but rather 
said that he thought it funds werent available then the bank wouldnt allow the transactions 
to go through. Therefore it seems a reasonable conclusion that it was Mr M was carrying out 
the transactions. 
On that basis, I dont think its unreasonable for RBS to conclude that Mr M was trying to 
make use of more funds than he was entitled to. For these reasons Im satisfied that RBS 
have met the standard of proof required for a CIFAS marker to be applied, and Im not 
currently thinking of asking them to do anything further here.
Ive also reviewed the terms of Mr Ms account, in particular the section on when and how 
they can choose to close an account. In this case Im satisfied that the reasons they chose to 
close the account met the criteria laid out, and I dont think RBS have been unreasonable.
Neither Mr M nor RBS responded to my provisional decision, so Ill now proceed with the 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain satisfied that RBS had enough information to record a marker with 
CIFAS against Mr M. There is still no reasonable explanation of how an unknown third-party 
would come to take his card, and come to know his PIN. The likely explanation is Mr M was 
making the transactions himself.
Considering the balance on the account it seems more likely than not these transactions 
were a deliberate attempt to make use of more funds than were available. On that basis 
RBS have enough information to meet the standard of proof for a CIFAS marker to be 
applied. Im also satisfied this would be a breach of the terms of the account, and under 
these terms RBS would be entitled to close Mr Ms account in the way they did.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 Ombudsman