DRN-4298620
The complaint
The estate of Mr B, represented by Mrs S, complains about Saga Services Limited (Saga) 
and the information provided at the point of policy renewal, which it feels led to an insurance 
claim being declined.
As Mrs S has represented the estate of Mr B during the claim and complaint process, any 
reference I make to Mrs S will be in place of the estate.
What happened
In October 2021, Mr B sadly passed away. And Mrs S was appointed to act as a 
representative of his estate. This included ensuring his property remained insured while it 
was vacant.
Mrs S arranged a renewal of the relevant home insurance in January 2022, and again in 
January 2023, through Saga, who were acting as the broker. Its important to note Saga 
didnt underwrite the policies they sold. The most recent home insurance policy was incepted 
in early January 2023. And unfortunately, a few weeks later, Mrs S discovered a pipe in the 
propertys loft had burst, causing extensive water damage to the property. And when Mrs S 
attempted to make a claim on the insurance policy sold by Saga, she discovered an 
endorsement had been applied to the policy excluding any claim for water damage. Mrs S 
was unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint with Saga.
Mrs S didnt think Saga had made the endorsement reasonably clear to her when she 
renewed the policy. She thought the wording of the letters she received suggested the 
endorsements would be the same as the previous year and so, this is what she assumed. 
And she thought Saga shouldve made this change clear to her when she called them to 
discuss the renewal, before she paid the renewal premium. So, she thought Saga should 
reimburse her the costs she incurred herself to cover the repair work needed to the property 
and reinstate the policy the estate held in 2022, to cover it moving forwards.
Saga responded to the complaint and upheld it in part. They thought the renewal letters sent 
to Mrs S made it reasonably clear what endorsements were applied to the policy. But they 
did accept the endorsement included in January 2023 wasnt included in the policy she had 
in January 2022. So, they offered to pay Mrs S £50 to recognise this, which Mrs S rejected. 
Saga have since confirmed the endorsement applied to the January 2023 policy was never 
intended to be included in the January 2022 policy and so, they felt theyd made a mistake 
when offering £50 in their initial final response. Mrs S remained unhappy, so she referred her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought the renewal 
documentation made it reasonably clear that Mrs S had a responsibility to check the 
endorsements on the policy. And they were satisfied when Mrs S paid for the most recent 
policy, she confirmed to the advisor on the telephone that shed read through the information 
and understood it. So, they didnt think Saga had failed to provide Mrs S with the correct 
information and they didnt think Saga needed to do anything more than theyd already 
offered.
Mrs S didnt agree. She maintained her belief that, in a situation such as hers, the 
responsibility shouldve been on Saga to ensure she understood there was a change in the 
level of cover on the policy. And she thought the implication of the endorsement essentially 
rendered the buildings aspect of the insurance irrelevant. She also thought the call she 
made to Saga discussed the content insurance, not the building insurance, so she didnt 
think this call was relevant. Because of this, and the fact Saga had already offered her £50, 
she felt it was accepted that Saga had acted unfairly and so, she wanted what she felt was 
adequate financial compensation. As Mrs S didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on the estate of Mr B, and so, 
the impact on its representative Mrs S. I dont doubt Mrs S intended to purchase a policy 
that covered the property in the event of a water leak. And I dont dispute Mrs S assumed 
this is the cover she held following the renewal of the policy in January 2023. So, when Mrs 
S attempted to claim on the policy with the insurer directly, as she was informed she didnt 
hold this cover due to an applicable endorsement, I can understand why shed consider the 
information given to her by Saga in their role as the broker and feel as though they acted 
unfairly. And, as she incurred a financial loss, I can understand why she feels Saga should 
be responsible for this.
But for me to say Saga should do something more than they have already, for example 
reimburse the cost of the repair work needed to the property, I first need to be satisfied Saga 
did something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied they failed to make the endorsements 
applicable on the policy reasonably clear to Mrs S. Or, if I think they did, that they acted 
unfairly in some other way. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached this decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
what Ive been able to consider, and how. I note Mrs S has raised concerns about the way 
Saga handled the complaint. But complaint handling is an unregulated activity and so, Im 
unable to comment on the service Saga provided during this process any further. I also want 
to make it clear that it is the estate of Mr B that is the customer of Saga, and not Mrs S. So, 
while I dont doubt Mrs S is likely to have been inconvenienced during the claim process, our 
service is only able to consider the impact any service has had on the estate of Mr B directly. 
And should I deem compensation to be appropriate, this would be payable to the estate of 
Mr B, and not Mrs S.
I also think its important to set out Sagas role in the administration of the policy Mrs S 
purchased. Saga acted as a broker for the policy and so, their responsibility lies solely with 
the policy renewal and the way it was sold. Crucially, the policy itself was underwritten by a 
separate insurer. And because of this, it is the insurer that is ultimately responsible for the 
rejection of the claim itself. This also means that Saga would be unable to reinstate the 
previous policy Mrs S took out in January 2022, as ultimately it is the insurer who decides 
the risk they are willing to take on. So, my decision focuses solely on Sagas actions as a 
broker for the policy. Ive seen that on 19 December 2022, Saga sent a renewal letter to the estate of Mr B and 
so, Mrs S received this as part of her role as a representative of the estate. Ive seen this 
letter states on the first page, within the bold section, that there arent any significant 
changes to your cover. And Mrs S has explained clearly why she thinks this statement led 
her to assume the endorsements on the policy would be the same as those found in the 
January 2022 policy, which covered claims for water leaks.
But crucially, within this section, it also states Please check the endorsements section in 
your Statement of Insurance for any special conditions on your policy before going onto 
explain that the building and contents cover would be administered by a different company, 
on behalf of a different insurer, than those that provided the January 2022 policy.
So, even though that section did say there werent any significant changes, I do think it was 
made reasonably clear that there was an expectation on Mrs S to ensure she understood the 
applicable endorsements. And I think this wouldve been made even more important, 
considering the underwriter of the policy had changed from the previous year.
I can see within the Statement of Insurance that Saga referred to, sent within the renewal 
letter Ive referred to above, it included a Vacant property endorsement that states We will 
only cover damage caused by fire or smoke not arising from a gradually operating cause, 
explosion, lightning or earthquake, impact by aircraft or other aerial devices or anything 
dropped from them and liability to the public only. Crucially, I think this makes it reasonably 
clear that water damage wouldnt be covered. And, as I think Saga made it reasonably clear 
there was an onus on Mrs S to check the endorsements, I wouldve expected Mrs S to notice 
this and question the level of cover, should she be unhappy with it. And I cant see Mrs S did 
this.
Instead, Ive listened to a call Mrs S held with Saga, where she discussed removing the 
content insurance part of the policy. And, while I do agree the conversation centred around 
the content insurance aspect of the policy, I must consider the fact the endorsement applied 
to both the building and content insurance aspects. And Im satisfied on this call, Saga 
clarified whether Mrs S understood the extent of the cover, before she agreed to the renewal 
and paid the premium. I dont think Saga were unfair to assume Mrs S had read all the 
documents they had sent before she said this and so, I wouldnt expect Saga to re-affirm all 
the information included within the renewal documents.
And further to this, as Mrs S requested a quote for a premium without content insurance 
before deciding against taking this, I can see Saga sent Mrs S two further letters including 
the Statement of Insurance that included the Vacant property endorsement on 29 
December 2022. One letter was an amended renewal invitation with the content insurance 
removed. The second was a renewal acceptance letter, confirming the premium Mrs S paid.
And in this letter, in bold, it stated There are some endorsements youll need to check  
theyre listed in your Statement of Insurance. Again, at this point I wouldve expected Mrs S 
to check the documents as per Sagas request, to ensure the cover was as she expected. 
And I think its reasonable for me to assume that, had Mrs S done so, she wouldve noted 
the endorsement and, if she was unhappy with the extent of cover, she couldve queried and 
changed this through Saga directly, before the leak was discovered in the property.
So, while I understand Mrs Ss viewpoint that Saga couldve made her aware of the 
endorsement change verbally when she spoke to them, and that some of the wording in the 
initial renewal invite may have been slightly misleading, I dont think this takes away from the 
fact that in three separate sets of documentation, Saga directly pointed Mrs S to the 
endorsements on the policy and asked that she ensure she understood them, and the 
implications they may have.Because of this, I dont think I can say Saga have acted unfairly or unreasonably during the 
renewal process and the information they supplied and so, I dont think they need to do 
anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs S was hoping for. And I recognise why Mrs S may 
feel this contradicts Sagas own complaint response, where they offered to pay Mrs S £50. 
But from the evidence Ive seen, and the information supplied to me, this £50 was paid to 
recognise Sagas initial belief that the Vacant property endorsement shouldve been 
included on the policy taken out in January 2022 as well. But even if this was the case, 
which Saga now say is incorrect, as this exclusion wasnt applied this means the property 
was insured under a policy that would cover damage caused by a water leak for a year when 
potentially it shouldnt have. So, I dont think there is any impact to the estate of Mr B that 
should be compensated for. That being said, as Saga offered to pay £50, Id expect this offer 
to be honoured should Mrs S choose to accept it.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold the estate of Mr Bs complaint about Saga 
Services Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman