DRN-4356569
The complaint
Mr R complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank has reported 
adverse information on his credit file.
What happened
Mr R says he made two balance transfers to his Tesco credit card account in early 2022, but 
it charged him an overcharge fee. He says Tesco removed it but reported adverse 
information about it to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). Mr R says that adverse 
information has affected his ability to apply for a mortgage and has impacted on offered 
interest rates. He says the mistake has caused a grave threat to his health and would like 
the adverse information removed as well as compensation.
Tesco says it correctly charged an over limit fee when the two transfers exceeded Mr Rs 
credit limit. It says it makes clear that there may be such a charge and that its up to a 
customer to manage an account. Tesco says it refunded a fee but is obliged to accurately 
report its customers account position to the CRAs. It says in any event it is reporting Mr Rs 
account as up to date and says it correctly charged a second fee for the following month as 
the account exceeded the credit limit for part of it.
Mr R had brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Mr R made the balance transfers which meant his account balance 
exceeded his credit limit. The investigator thought Tesco warned customers before making 
the transfer that a fee would be applied which could impact on the transfer amount and 
balance. And thought Mr R should provide his credit file if he disagreed with what Tesco said 
about any adverse information.
Mr R doesnt accept that view and in summary says Tesco should pay for the cost of 
obtaining his credit file. He questions the legality of Tescos actions and says he was 
charged a second fee despite bringing the balance below the credit limit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied this was Mr Rs account and his responsibility to manage it. I can see he made 
the balance transfers which meant his account balance exceeded his credit limit. It follows 
that I find Tesco was entitled in line with agreed account terms and conditions to make an 
over limit charge for the two months the account exceeded the credit limit. I appreciate Mr R 
says he brought the account below the credit limit in February 2022, but I find that was part 
way through the month and so Tesco was entitled to charge two fees. I also think Tesco 
made clear during the balance transfer process that charges would be applied which could 
affect the process and the account balance. I would have expected Mr R to have realised his 
credit limit had been exceeded.
There is no dispute that Tesco did refund fees as a gesture of goodwill. I have made clear I 
dont think Tesco made a mistake. Im satisfied that Tesco, as is any lender, obliged to report 
to the CRAs accurate information about its customers accounts. So, I dont think Tesco 
would have made a mistake by reporting to the CRAs that for two months Mr Rs account 
exceeded the credit limit for it. Tesco has now told us that it is reporting the accounts as up 
to date and Mr R hasnt provided us with his credit file. So, I cant fairly say what if anything 
is now being reported but make clear that I think Tesco is entitled to report the credit limit 
being exceeded for the two months in question. I dont know why Mr R hasnt provided his 
credit file and cant fairly direct Tesco pay for it as Mr R suggests it should do. I have not in 
any event seen any evidence from Mr Rs mortgage providers about any impact this issue 
had on those applications even if I upheld the complaint.
I appreciate Mr R questions the legality of the account charges. Im satisfied Mr R agreed to 
Tescos account terms and conditions when the account was first opened and that it was 
entitled to make the charges in these circumstances. It would be for a court to decide on the 
legality of a contract in any event.
Overall, Im satisfied Tesco has not made a mistake or acted unfairly in the circumstances of 
this complaint and find this now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute 
informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman