DRN-1951607
The complaint
Miss P complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Oodle Financial Services Limited, trading as Oodle Finance (Oodle).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Oodle, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss P acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Oodle, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. It also says we 
should take into account whether a car has proven to be durable when considering if it was 
of satisfactory quality.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Miss P. The car 
here was around eight years old and had completed about 40,000 miles. So, I think a 
reasonable person would expect some wear and tear to be present, but I dont think theyd 
expect the car to intermittently cut out.
Im persuaded there is a fault with this car because the breakdown service engineer had to 
attend to it, and he identified a fault. Miss P has provided consistent evidence of the 
intermittent fault. She attended an independent garage in August 2019 to have the same 
fault looked at and has attempted to have the fault repaired by replacing the alternator. 
The fault occurred within the first six months and the relevant legislation would suggest we 
should therefore consider it to be present or developing when the car was supplied to 
Miss P, unless the business can prove differently. I dont think the business have 
demonstrated the fault wasnt there when supplied.
In those circumstances the relevant legislation would allow them one opportunity to fix the 
problem. But the rectification of the issue would need to be completed in a reasonable 
timeframe. Miss P complained to Oodle in early October 2019, but they asked her to 
continue driving until the fault reoccurred. I dont think thats reasonable as it was clear a 
fault was present. I dont think the business can therefore be said to have completed a repair 
in a reasonable timeframe.
So, they should now allow Miss P to reject the car.
Putting things right
Oodle should end the finance agreement Miss P has with them.
I cant see a reference to any deposit in the finance agreement so theres nothing to return in 
that respect.
Miss P has completed a reasonable mileage in the car in the period she has had it and I 
dont think it would therefore be reasonable to ask Oodle to refund any of the finance 
instalments shes paid them in respect of lack of use. 
Miss P has had to pay for an alternator to be fitted. Whilst the repair wasnt successful I think 
Oodle should refund the cost of that repair. I say that because I think its likely, if the car was 
returned to the supplying dealership, they would have completed the same repair. Thats 
because the breakdown service had suggested that may be the problem. They should add 
interest to that refund as Miss P has been deprived of that money.
Its clear that these issues would have been distressing and inconvenient for Miss P. I think 
the business could have resolved things earlier for her and without the need to refer her 
complaint to this service. Miss P also experienced several breakdowns as a result of the 
faults shes had with the car. In those circumstances, I think Oodle should pay her some 
compensation and I agree with the investigator that £150 is sufficient.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Oodle Financial Services 
Limited to:
end the finance agreement at no further cost to Miss P;
collect the car at no cost to Miss P;
refund the £230 Miss P spent on the alternator replacement and add 8% simple 
interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Miss P £150 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Miss Ps credit file in relation to 
this issue.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman