DRN-3752894
The complaint
Mr P complains about the Repayment Option Plan (ROP) that was sold alongside his 
Vanquis Bank Limited credit card. In summary, Mr P is unhappy as he says he was told that 
to get the credit card he would need to take out the ROP. And as Vanquis has now decided 
to discontinue ROP, he feels it was a waste of money paying for it.
What happened
In 2013 Mr P took out a Vanquis credit card. ROP was an additional feature of the credit 
card and for a fee each month ROP allowed Mr P to take a payment break when he was 
experiencing financial difficulties. The ROP could be activated and the normal regular 
monthly repayments would not need to be made during this time. But Mr Ps credit file would 
not be adversely impacted. Recently, Vanquis decided to discontinue ROP and wrote to all 
affected customers to explain that from October 2022 ROP would no longer be available.
Mr P was unhappy about this and feels it was a waste of time paying for ROP since 2013 if 
Vanquis is simply now going to stop offering the product. Mr P also feels the ROP was 
missold to him in 2013 as, amongst other things, he was told he had to take out ROP to get 
the credit card. 
Mr P complained to Vanquis and as he was unhappy with its response he then referred his 
complaint to our service. The complaint was considered by one of our investigators and she 
explained that she could not consider Mr Ps complaint about the sale of ROP as the 
complaint had been brought too late. She also explained that Vanquiss credit card terms 
and conditions indicate the ROP can be cancelled at any time by Vanquis, provided 30 days 
notice is provided. 
Mr P remained unhappy with the investigators conclusions and asked for the complaint to 
be considered by an ombudsman, so the complaint has been passed to me to consider 
afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before the merits of Mr Ps complaint can be investigated, I need to decide first whether his 
complaint is one our service can consider at all. This is because Vanquis doesnt consent to 
our service looking at the complaint. And the rules our service is bound by also set 
timescales within which complaints need to be brought to this service. 
Mr Ps complaint relates to two main points, what he says he was told when the credit card 
was taken out in 2013 and Vanquiss decision to discontinue ROP in 2022. Ive initially 
therefore considered whether these are complaints that our service can actually consider. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules, under which Im 
obliged to operate, set timescales within which complaints need to be brought to this service. 
In relation to whether a complaint has been made out of time, DISP Rule 2.8.2 R says that, 
unless a business consents, I cant consider a complaint if its referred to me: 
(2) more than: 
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later) 
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint; 
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman 
within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint 
having been received; 
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 R 
or DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances;
Vanquis decided to discontinue ROP in 2022 and Mr P has brought his complaint about that 
within 6 years. Im satisfied therefore that this part of Mr Ps complaint can be considered 
and Ill refer again to this later in my decision.
In relation to Mr Ps complaint about the sale of the credit card, the sale took place in 2013 
and this is more than 6 years ago. So under the first part of the rule Mr P has not complained 
within the required time period. The second part of the rule requires Mr P to complain within 
3 years from when he became aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, he had 
cause for complaint. 
Vanquis has referred to Mr P being sent a letter in November 2016 and amongst other things 
this referred to the various features of ROP. In particular, it indicated that Mr P can opt out of 
the plan at any time and if the ROP is cancelled within 30 days of receiving the ROP 
welcome pack, a full refund of any charges will be made. Mr P has complained that he was 
told that he was required to take out the ROP in order to get the credit card but the 
November 2016 letter indicates that the ROP can be cancelled at any time. It should 
therefore in my view have been clear to Mr P that it was not a condition of the credit card 
that ROP had to be taken as well. It is because of this that Im satisfied that the letter in 
November 2016 would have made Mr P reasonably aware that he had cause for complaint if 
he was told he had to take out the ROP to get the credit card. 
As Mr P did not complain within 3 years of November 2016 Mr P has not brought his 
complaint within the required time scales as set out within the DISP rules. I appreciate Mr P 
says he does not recall getting the letter in November 2016 but Vanquis has provide 
evidence to show that it was sent. So despite Mr Ps recollections, I think it more likely than 
not that it was actually sent to Mr P at the time and would have given Mr P cause for 
complaint. 
The rules also set out that a complaint can be considered outside the time limits if there were 
exceptional circumstances. I havent however seen any evidence of any exceptional 
circumstances and do not consider there are therefore any grounds to consider Mr Ps 
complaint about the sale of the credit card or setting up of ROP. 
Turning to Mr Ps second complaint point about the discontinuation of ROP by Vanquis, 
having considered what Mr P and Vanquis have said and provided, I have not upheld this 
part of Mr Ps complaint. Mr P is unhappy that having had ROP for around 9 years he feels it has been a waste of 
money now that Vanquis has decided to discontinue it. The fact that Mr P has not claimed 
against the ROP since he has had it and Vanquis is now discontinuing ROP is not, in 
isolation, grounds to instruct Vanquis to refund everything Mr P has paid towards the ROP.  
Mr P has referred to his self-employed status and that ROP would be of no benefit to him as 
he believes ROP does not cover self employed people. This is not however the case and Mr 
Ps self-employed status would not necessarily prevent a successful claim on ROP should it 
have been required. 
Ultimately it is up to Vanquis to decide what products it offers consumers, and this includes 
whether it wishes to continue offering ROP to new or existing customers. The credit card 
terms and conditions do indicate that Vanquis can cancel the ROP immediately in 
exceptional circumstances, or provided it has given 30 days written notice. Vanquis has 
provided more than 30 days notice that it was intending to discontinue ROP and while I 
appreciate Mr P may remain unhappy about this, Im not persuaded Vanquis has acted 
unreasonably or unfairly here. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not consider that Mr P has brought his complaint about 
the sale of the credit card and ROP within the required timescales and I am therefore unable 
to consider the merits of this part of Mr Ps complaint. I am however able to consider 
Vanquiss decision to discontinue the ROP, but I do not uphold this part of Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman