DRN-2607899
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Bristec Hospitality and Retail Solutions Ltd (Bristec) misrepresented 
a finance agreement to her.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs H, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs H entered into a regulated hire agreement brokered by Bristec on 9 December 2018. 
The agreement was amended later. That new agreement was in the name of a limited 
company and was an unregulated lease agreement. This service, for the reasons our 
investigator has already explained, does not have the power to consider complaints about 
unregulated agreements so Im only considering the first agreement here.
If Mrs H was given a false statement of fact that induced her to enter into a finance 
agreement she wouldnt otherwise have entered into I would think the agreement had been 
misrepresented to her and Id tell Bristec to take some action.
Here, Mrs H says she was led to believe she was entering into an agreement that allowed 
her to keep the equipment and that she was misinformed about the price. She also says the 
agreement was set up in her name as a sole trader, but she says shes never acted as a 
sole trader and it should therefore have been set up in her limited company name.
The agreement Mrs H signed was a lease agreement with no rights to own the goods at the 
end. Mrs H signed that agreement and clearly had time to absorb its contents as I can see 
from the email chains provided that she had challenged some of the wording. I think Mrs H 
was given enough information to understand the type of agreement she was entering into. 
And, even if Im wrong about that, Bristec have confirmed that at the end of the lease they 
purchase title and hand that title back to the consumer so that they dont have to upgrade or 
take out another lease. That appears to put Mrs H in the position she wished to be in.
I dont think theres evidence the price was wrong either. The price on the agreement was 
£111.97 per month. In an email from Bristec to Mrs H before the agreement was signed they 
explained that the cost was £22.17 per week but a further £3.69 per week would be payable 
if Mrs H chose the three-year guarantee. So, the price with the guarantee would have been 
£111.97. Mrs H has explained that the lease company say the agreement never included a 
guarantee and she suggests the monthly payment should have been £22.17 per week 
instead. 
Ive thought about that, but Im not persuaded there is enough evidence to suggest the price 
was misrepresented. I say that because Mrs H has explained that before the agreement was 
signed on 6 December 2018 she contacted Bristec and explained her concerns that the 
agreement did not reflect what was sold. That suggests Mrs H had absorbed the details in 
the document and by signing it on 9 December 2018 I think she accepted those terms and 
the charge of £111.97 that related to the goods described in the contract. I also note that it 
was some time before Mrs H complained about the costs in the contract and I think it 
wouldve been likely that she would complain earlier if they remained a concern for her.
Mrs H has explained that she was never a sole trader. The agreement was subsequently 
amended in the name of her limited company. I think the wrong was righted and I cant see 
that Mrs H was inconvenienced by that mistake. So, I dont think it would be fair to ask 
Bristec to take any action about that.
Mrs H says that Bristec didnt declare commission on this agreement. Bristec have explained 
that they dont receive a commission from the leasing company and Ive not seen sufficient 
evidence of that concern. 
I can see that Mrs H is also concerned that Bristec passed personal information to the lease 
company so that they could complete a credit search without her approval. Ive reviewed the 
emails between Mrs H and Bristec and can see that Bristec asked Mrs H for some personal 
details in early October 2018 so they could get a head start on the lease. Mrs H 
subsequently provided those details. So, I dont think it would be fair to suggest Bristec had 
breached data protection laws.
And overall Im afraid I dont think there is sufficient evidence that Bristec have done 
anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman