DRN-2519038
The complaint
Ms J and Mr M complain about the way their whole of life policy was administered by     
Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited. They say that they never received any correspondence 
on the policy and so missed the outcomes of policy reviews, resulting in life cover ceasing 
without their knowledge. 
What happened
In this complaint, Ms J and Mr M have made a number of detailed points and Ive considered 
all those carefully. But, I have set out below the issues I think are key in this complaint and 
have focused on them only in making my decision.
Ms J and Mr M took out a reviewable whole of life policy at the same time as a mortgage, in 
July 1997. Aviva did not recommend the policy but took over the plan and responsibility for 
its administration in 2011.  
The initial sum assured was £117,500. This was the amount of the mortgage less the 
amount of life cover that they already had in place elsewhere. The policy premium was 
£102.10 per month and critical illness cover was included. 
The policy passed a review in 2002. However, it failed reviews in 2007 and 2012, meaning a 
higher premium was required to maintain the sum assured. However, as Aviva didnt have 
the correct address for Ms J and Mr M, they didnt receive the letters and so Aviva didnt 
receive any instructions from Ms J and Mr M in relation to failed reviews. This meant the 
required increases in premiums werent made and eventually life cover ceased in 2013. 
In 2019 Ms J and Mr M contacted Aviva to change address, from the one they moved to 
when the policy was taken out in 1997. Ms J and Mr M say that it was only after this that they 
realised that Aviva still had them down at the original address they were in, prior to the 1997 
move. 
Ms J and Mr M complained to Aviva. They said that Aviva should have had the correct 
address for them as it was the mortgage for this new address the policy was taken out to 
protect. They also complained that Aviva did nothing despite no contact from them.
Aviva looked into the matter and said that they didnt think there had been an error. The 
policy reviews had been sent to the address they had on the system. They said that as no 
post had been returned to them, no gone away markers were applied and so no further 
attempts were made to establish Ms J and Mr Ms correct address for the policy. 
The matter was referred to this service, but our investigator didnt agree that Aviva had made 
an error. He said that Ms J and Mr M had not expressly requested to update their address 
from what it was when the initial application was made. He also didnt think Aviva should 
have done more to update the address, as no post was returned for them to be aware there 
was an issue. 
Ms J and Mr M didnt agree with the assessment and remained of the view that Aviva should 
have been contacting them at the address that the mortgage was for, that this policy was 
sold to protect. They were also unhappy that Aviva hadnt done more to locate them and 
correct the address, despite not hearing from them for over 20 years. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Ms J and Mr M that I think the investigator has reached a fair 
outcome here. So, I dont uphold their complaint in this matter. Ill explain why. 
This policy was taken out with a predecessor scheme of Aviva. The advice was given by 
the business that supplied the mortgage and who the policy was assigned to. As to be 
expected due to the amount of time that has passed, there is limited information from the 
point of sale. However, we do have a recommendation letter and a confirmation of cover 
letter. Both were sent to the address that Ms J and Mr M were moving from. 
I understand Ms J and Mr Ms position. They have only recently found out that the policy 
they have been paying into for over 20 years, has not been providing them with any life 
cover since 2013. They have since been paying 100% of their monthly premium into an 
investment element, that they might not have chosen if they were aware. 
However, I cant conclude that Aviva have done anything wrong in using the address they 
have had on record for all these years. The recommendation letter includes both the 
previous and new mortgaged property that Ms J and Mr M were purchasing at that time. 
There is a clear note in this that says this is the previously owned property now being 
rented pending a new purchase. The monthly rent of £1,700 is not shown under 
expenditure so that an accurate future position is reflected. As I have said, both this letter 
and the letter confirming the commencement of cover was sent to this previously owned 
property. I am satisfied from this that Aviva were not aware that the purchase of the new 
property had been completed and I havent seen anything to show Ms J and Mr M did this 
subsequently or that they explicitly requested the new address be used. 
I appreciate that Ms J and Mr M feel that Aviva should have been aware from when the 
mortgage commenced and this policy was assigned to the provider, that the address had 
changed. However, I dont agree that is the case. There was a link between this 
predecessor scheme and the advising company/mortgage provider. However, they were 
separate entities and would have different customer systems. I wouldnt have expected 
information such as that to have been shared automatically or be available instantly for 
both. 
I have also considered how the policy was able to run for over 20 years without Aviva 
querying why Ms J and Mr M had not been in contact at all or responded to any 
communication including the outcome of reviews in 2002, 2007 and 2012. Aviva have 
confirmed that they would have done more had a gone away marker been applied. This 
would have happened if any post was returned from the previous address that they were 
writing to, but it wasnt. I am satisfied with Avivas response that it doesnt have a system 
in place that would query customers not responding and that they often have policy 
reviews not responded to, resulting in default options automatically being applied. 
Ms J and Mr M also feel that Aviva should have done more to contact the mortgage 
provider, as this life cover was assigned to them. They feel that if that had been done 
Aviva would have established their correct address and contact would have been restored 
and the cover not ceased. However, assigning a policy transfers the right to the benefit of it. I dont expect Aviva to have done this, especially as I am satisfied they werent aware 
Ms J and Mr M werent receiving any correspondence. 
Ms J and Mr M feel that Aviva should have made them aware straight away in 2019 when 
they changed their address, that the life cover had ceased. Whilst I appreciate this may 
have allowed Ms J and Mr M to act sooner, I am satisfied with Avivas position that they 
werent aware there was an issue and their system was under the impression that post 
about the policy had been received. 
Overall, I am satisfied that Aviva are not at fault for Ms J and Mr M not receiving any 
correspondence regarding this policy since inception. Whilst it is unusual that there was no 
post returned and that Ms J and Mr M made no contact with Aviva in that time, I wouldnt 
have expected Aviva to have done anything further. I know Ms J and Mr M will be 
disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what we  in trying to 
resolve their dispute with Aviva  can do for them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman