DRN-3501953
The complaint
Ms O says Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc, trading as Post Office Financial Services (POFS), failed 
to notify her of a change in interest rate and so should compensate her for the interest she 
lost as a result.
What happened
Ms O rang POFS on 11 October 2021 to check what interest rate she was receiving on her 
instant saver account. The advisor confirmed it was 0.1%. Ms O was unhappy saying she 
had not been told it was dropping from 0.75%. The advisor asked if she would like to make a 
complaint, and went on to offer £60 as an apology. Ms O initially accepted this but later 
called back to say she wanted to make a formal complaint as this was insufficient 
compensation for the interest she had lost.
When POFS investigated the complaint it found Ms O had been notified by letter on 7 June 
2021 that the rate was dropping, as her 0.65% introductory bonus would expire on 25 June 
2021. Ms O says she never received that letter, nor statements in June and September 
2021. And she says the £60 payment and apology from the POFS on the October calls 
evidences that it has already accepted it was at fault.
Our investigator did not uphold Ms Os complaint. He said POFS had shown it had sent a 
letter to Ms O at the correct address. 
Unhappy with this assessment, Ms O asked for an ombudsmans opinion. She said the letter 
was not sent to her; she would have moved her savings. She believes all communications 
from the bank stopped when the interest rate dropped to keep her money at a low rate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Ms Os complaint. Ill explain why.
POFS has sent a copy of the letter it sent Ms O. Ms O says she never received it. But based 
on the POFS system record showing it was sent I cant fairly hold the bank liable for the non-
receipt. I have listened to the calls from October 2021 and whilst the advisor offered £60 
compensation and said a letter should have been sent, I think its clear that at that stage no 
investigation was done into whether or not a letter had been issued. I can see this was 
somewhat misleading for Ms O. 
But whilst I dont doubt Ms Os testimony that she didnt receive the letter, on balance I find it 
is most likely it was sent to her. In addition Ms O would have been aware when she opened 
the account that it had a bonus rate for a fixed period of time. This means I have found no 
reason to find that POFS caused Ms O any financial loss it needs to make good. 
Ms O also refers to two quarterly statements that she did not receive. I can see POFS 
acknowledged this, sent her copies and apologised for the error. But I dont think this 
evidences any deliberate suppression of communication as Ms O claims. The terms of the 
account provide that an annual statement will be provided and POFS met this obligation. As 
I have already concluded POFS sent notification of the interest rate change to Ms O, I dont 
think further investigation into the statements would change the outcome.  
I know this isnt the decision Ms O is hoping for, but I find it to be fair and reasonable based 
on the available evidence.
My final decision
I am not upholding Ms Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman