DRN-2369116
The complaint
Mr G complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
Marsh Finance & Commercial Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr G entered into a HPA with Marsh in February 2020 to acquire a used car. In April 2020 
he says the engine management light (EML) came on and he returned the car for repair. He 
collected the car the next day but the EML came on again and so the car was returned for 
repair. Mr G says he collected the car on 6 May but a few days later the EML came on 
again. He says there were several issues including the collision assist and suspension being 
faulty. Mr G says that the service light has been on the whole time he has had the car even 
though the paid for the car to be serviced when he acquired it. 
Mr G contacted Marsh in June 2020 about the issues he had experienced and said he no 
longer wanted the car. He then sent a second complaint letter dated 30 June 2020 saying 
that he had not received a response to his first letter. He explained that he had undertaken 
further checks on the car which had identified several issues and he had been quoted repair 
costs of around £2,000. Mr G says he had some repairs carried out by the main dealer, but 
issues remain. As Marsh didnt respond to Mr G he raised his complaint with this service.
Our investigator requested further information from Marsh about this case. Marsh 
acknowledged that the complaint had been received and said it would contact Mr G, but this 
didnt happen. Further evidence wasnt provided by Marsh and our investigator explained 
that she would consider the complaint based on the information that had been received from 
Mr G.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She noted that the car passed a MOT in February 
2020, but that Mr G had raised issues such as the intermittent fault with the collision assist 
which wouldnt have necessarily been noted in a MOT. She said that given when the issues 
with the car arose and the nature of the issues it was more likely than not that the issues 
were due to faults that were present or developing at the point of supply. She said that 
although some repairs had happened under warranty other issues remained outstanding and 
although Mr G had covered a reasonable mileage, the issues such as the collision sensor 
and headlight werent linked to the mileage and wouldnt be considered to have arisen due to 
wear and tear.
Our investigator thought that as the dealer had been given the opportunity to carry out 
repairs and issues remained, and Marsh had been given the opportunity to assist Mr G and 
this hadnt happened, the fair resolution was for Mr G to be allowed to reject the car. She 
noted that Mr G had continued to use the car and given the mileage he had covered she 
didnt think any payments he had made needed to be refunded. She did think that Mr G 
should be refunded the £132 he paid for the safety inspection and the £229 for the service 
that he didnt receive (subject to evidence being provided). She also thought Mr G should be 
paid £250 compensation for the trouble and upset he had been caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Marsh has been provided the opportunity to provide further evidence in response to Mr Gs 
complaint, but it hasnt done so. However, as I have received a copy of the finance 
agreement and other information regarding the issues with the car and the correspondence 
about these I find I have enough evidence to make a decision on this complaint.
Mr G acquired a used car through a HPA with Marsh. Under the regulations, specifically the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), Marsh can be held liable if the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes into account factors such 
as the age and mileage of the car and what a reasonable person would expect taking into 
account all the circumstances.
In this case the car was registered in September 2014 and so was over five years old when 
Mr G acquired it. The MOT carried out in February 2020 recorded the mileage as 37,623 
miles. Given the age and mileage of the car at acquisition, some wear and tear would be 
expected. 
The car passed a MOT in February 2020 just before Mr G acquired it. This suggests it was 
roadworthy at that time however a MOT will not check all aspects of a car and it is possible 
that issues are present or developing on a car that arent identified in the MOT. Therefore, 
while the car passed a MOT at acquisition this doesnt necessarily meant that it was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mr G raised issues less than two months after acquisition. He has said the EML came on. 
This could be due to number of different issues. The car was returned to the dealer but after 
Mr G collected it the issue occurred again. Mr G has raised several issues, and he has also 
provided copies of reports from the main dealer (July 2020) and another party confirming 
that the car registered a number of fault codes and was showing various issues. Therefore, I 
accept there were faults present with Mr Gs car which he raised with the dealer and then 
with Marsh in June 2020.
A diagnostics report dated 8 July 2020 lists faults with the headlights, sensors and also 
excessive play in the bottom arm. While I accept that issues can arise due to wear and tear, 
given when these issues were reported and the range and nature of the issues I find It more 
likely than not that the car had faults that were present or developing at the point of supply. I 
also think that given the issues raised and the timing of these that the car wasnt sufficiently 
durable. Marsh was made aware of the issues and it would have been reasonable for it to 
have carried out further investigation, but this didnt happen.
Given the above, I do not find that the car was of satisfactory quality at supply. Some repairs 
have been undertaken under warranty but there are still issues outstanding that arent 
covered by the warranty. The dealer has had more than one opportunity to carry out repairs 
and the issues were raised with Marsh and it didnt take any further action to address these. 
Mr G asked to reject the car in June 2020, and I find that this is now the fair resolution to this 
complaint.
When a car is rejected, the HPA should be cancelled with nothing further owning and any 
adverse information that may have been recorded on the consumers credit file should be 
removed. Mr G should also be refunded any deposit payment he made however in this case 
I understand Mr G didnt pay a deposit. 
We can also consider whether Mr G should remain liable for the payments he made after he 
had raised his concerns. In this case Mr G continued to have use of the car and I can see the mileage was recorded as 37,623 in the MOT dated February 2020 and Mr G has said the 
current mileage is around 57,000. Based on this I find that Mr G has been able to benefit 
from the use of the car and so I do not find that he should be refunded the payments he 
made under the agreement.
Mr G has incurred costs because of the issues with the car. He paid £132 for a diagnostics 
and safety inspection which he wouldnt have needed to do had the issues not arisen or had 
Marsh acted on Mr Gs complaint letter from June 2020. Therefore, I find this cost should be 
refunded. 
Mr G has also provided a copy of his vehicle order form which includes a cost of £229 for a 
full service. On the diagnostic report carried out on 8 July 2020 it says the service is 270 
days overdue. Mr G has also said that the service light has been on since he acquired the 
car. Therefore, on balance it appears that Mr G paid for a service that didnt take place. If 
this is the case I find it fair he is refunded the £229 paid for this. 
Mr G has been caused distress and inconvenience due to the issues he experienced with 
the car and due to the lack of response from Marsh. Because of this I agree with our 
investigator that he should be paid £250 compensation.
Putting things right
Marsh Finance & Commercial Ltd should:
1. Contact Mr G to arrange collection of the vehicle (at no cost to Mr G) as soon as 
possible.
2. Unwind Mr Gs HPA with nothing further to pay and remove any adverse information 
that may have been recorded on Mr Gs credit file.
3. Reimburse Mr G £132 for the inspection report carried out in July 2020.
4. Refund Mr G £229 for the service he paid for but doesnt appear to have happened 
(unless evidence of the service taking place can be provided).
5. Pay Mr G £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Items 3 and 4 are subject to 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
If Marsh considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give Mr G a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Marsh Finance & Commercial Ltd should 
take the actions set out above in resolution of this 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman