DRN-3181658
The complaint
Mr N has complained about his car insurer Ageas Insurance Limited because it declined his 
claim for his stolen car  and later cancelled his policy for his remaining car.
What happened
Mr N owned a car Ill refer to as L1. In August 2020, via a private sale he bought another car, 
L2. His intent was to keep L2 for a little while, valet it and sell it on for a profit. He added the 
car to the cover held with Ageas for L1 (which was due to renew on 3 April 2021).
In October 2020 Mr N declared L2 as off the road for tax purposes (SORN). He re-taxed the 
car in February 2021 with a view to doing the valet work and getting the car sold. But on 
29 March 2021, a few days before the insurance cover for both Mr Ns cars was due to 
renew, Mr N used L2 to go on a hiking trip. He parked the car and went for his hike but on 
return his car was gone. He hiked to a nearby layby and found someone to give him a lift 
home. He called the police that evening and Ageas the next day. Ageas began considering 
the claim.
Ageas noted that Mr N had very limited evidence of his purchase of L2. It noted the 
circumstances of the reported theft  and that there was little evidence related to that too. 
Ageas found a previous claim it had handled for Mr N in 2019, also for a stolen car. It noted 
that the purchase and theft details related to that car were extraordinarily similar to those for 
L2. It appointed a company of investigators. Ageas then wrote to Mr N and told him it didnt 
accept the theft had occurred in the way suggested and it was rejecting his claim. Ageas 
then decided to cancel the policy, which had renewed in the meantime, entirely  meaning 
Mr N didnt have cover for L1 either.
Mr N complained to us. Our investigator noted that Ageas had made various enquiries and 
that Mr N didnt have evidence to provide to it. He noted the policy allowed Ageas to cancel if 
it wished to. So he wasnt persuaded that Ageas had done anything wrong.
Mr N was unhappy. He said he had shown photos of the car and a photo he had taken of the 
previous owners V5. He wasnt persuaded that Ageas concerns about the previous theft or 
the way L2 had been purchased had any relevance to the claim for L2; they certainly didnt 
give it good cause to decline the claim. He also felt it was unfair for Ageas to be able to 
cancel his policy on grounds of fraud when it hadnt shown that there had been any fraud; it 
certainly hadnt reported a fraud by him to the police. 
The complaint was passed to me to consider. I felt it should be upheld as Ageas hadnt 
presented sufficient proof to substantiate cancellation on the grounds of fraud. I also felt it 
hadnt shown enough proof to reasonably decline Mr Ns claim. So I said it had to do a 
number of things to put matters right. I subsequently clarified to both parties that Mr Ns 
policy is based on an agreed value for L2, so settlement of the claim by Ageas will have to 
be made on that basis. My provisional findings were:
fraud
Whilst Ageas hadnt accused Mr N of fraud at the time it declined his claim, it later cancelled 
his policy. It did this via Mr Ns broker and didnt initially, directly give Mr N its reason for 
having done so. But Mr N reports that he spoke to Ageas and it said it had done this 
because it didnt trust him anymore. Ageas told us it had cancelled the policy as it didnt 
believe the claim was genuine and that, in those circumstances, its policy allows it to cancel.
Strictly speaking Ageas policy does allow it to cancel. But this service often finds it unfair for 
an insurer to cancel mid-term without good cause. By that we usually mean that there has to 
have been a material change to the grounds on which the policy was based. In this case 
Ageas has said it cancelled the policy because the claim made wasnt genuine. A claim that 
isnt genuine might sometimes be fraudulent. And if an insurer has successfully shown that 
a policyholder had acted fraudulently, well be unlikely to uphold a complaint about it having 
declined a claim. 
But, where an insurer suspects a fraud has occurred and wants to cancel a policy as a 
result, this service expects an insurer to be able to show strong proof to support such an 
allegation. Thats because fraud is a serious allegation with potentially significant 
consequences for the accused. We dont usually find it sufficient for an insurer to, for 
example, present a list of inconsistencies and/or concerns it has identified during a claim as 
evidence that the claim is likely fraudulent. 
In this case Ageas is clearly concerned about the lack of purchase information Mr N has for 
L2. It is also clearly worried that the slightly unusual circumstances of the purchase of and 
claim for L2 closely match the same for a previous car owned by Mr N. I can understand why 
Ageas thinks its unlikely that the same set of circumstances and loss have, coincidentally, 
occurred twice in recent succession for Mr N. But that doesnt mean I think it has done 
enough to show Mr N has likely acted fraudulently. 
I see that in relation to the claim for L2 Ageas appointed a company of investigators to look 
into the claim. Ive seen the report produced. But it adds nothing to the suspicions and 
concerns Ageas had already alerted to the investigating company when appointing it. The 
investigators dont seem to have found any evidence Mr N was lying or been able to 
disprove any of the details he supplied. It seems they recommended some further enquiries 
be made, particularly with the key Mr N had for L2. But I cant see that any further enquiries 
were undertaken. I note Ageas told our investigator it did nothing with the key as it was 
useless without the car. But Im aware that some older keys do contain some record, and 
Ive not seen that Ageas ascertained that Mr Ns key, for this particular make and model of 
car, did not. In short Ageas has no evidence which, even on balance, shows Mr N likely 
acted fraudulently in making a claim to it for theft of L2. I think it acted unfairly and 
unreasonably when it cancelled Mr Ns policy so itll have to reinstate it.
claim
Its usually the case that the policyholder, making a claim has to show, at least on the face of 
it, that theyve had a loss covered under the policy. That doesnt mean that they have to 
show strong proof that an item was owned and an incident occurred. For example, a 
policyholder may not have purchase receipts and they may not be able to show, with CCTV 
images for example, that their car was taken by someone. But as long as they can show 
some proof and, for example, have reported the theft to the police, thats usually enough, on 
the face of it, to say they likely have a claim under the policy. Its then up to the insurer, if it 
wishes to, to challenge that. It can do this either by referring to a relevant exclusion or 
showing that the incident is unlikely to have occurred in the way that it did, or the item most 
likely wasnt owned by the policyholder. 
Ageas hasnt sought to rely on any policy exclusions to decline the claim.Here Ageas wasnt satisfied that the theft likely occurred as suggested. In terms of 
considering a claim, a list of inconsistencies, for example, in a policyholders story of what 
happened, might give me cause to accept an insurers view that the incident, as initially 
reported to it, is unlikely to have occurred. But I have to say, Mr N seems to have been very 
consistent in his report of this claim. And seemingly even the investigators Ageas appointed 
found no suggestion that Mr N was unclear about, or inconsistent in, any details he gave 
them. Ive seen no evidence from Ageas that makes me think that its most likely that this 
incident didnt happen in the way reported.
Ageas also seems to doubt Mr Ns ownership of the car. But I note he added the car to his 
policy and paid the extra premium to cover it for the remainder of the year. He also taxed the 
car, amended that by declaring it SORN, and then re-taxed it again. He also put the V5 is his 
name. The V5 alone doesnt show ownership of a car. But I think that, along with the tax and 
insurance is sufficient evidence to show Mr N most likely owned the car. And Ive seen 
nothing from Ageas that makes me think Mr N wasnt the owner.
Overall, I can see no good reason for Ageas reasonably declining this claim. It will now have 
to move to settling it. 
compensation
I understand that this has been upsetting for Mr N. He has been unfairly and unreasonably 
accused of fraud with his car insurance policy being cancelled. I understand hes been 
having difficulty insuring L1 elsewhere  and that is likely as a result of Ageass cancellation 
on grounds of fraud. I accept this has been frustrating for Mr N. Im minded to require Ageas 
to pay Mr N £500 compensation.
Mr N accepted my findings. Ageas said it would abide by them but disagreed with them. It 
said it thinks its not within our remit to decide if a claim is fraudulent and that it had 
cancelled the policy as it feels Mr N presents as an unattractive risk because he hadnt made 
a genuine claim. It maintained that the circumstances of the purchase were odd, and 
explained that it had seen many claims in the last few years for cars that only exist on paper. 
It said this car had only done 12 miles in the years before Mr N is said to have purchased it 
and hadnt been insured for many years either. Regarding the key, Ageas said the car was 
so old the key did nothing other than lock and unlock it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas is correct, it is not our role to decide whether or not a claim is fraudulent. Rather, and 
as I explained provisionally, in a matter of fraud, I have to decide whether an insurer has 
made such an allegation fairly and reasonably. I remain of the view that by saying to Mr N 
that it didnt believe his claim was genuine, Ageas was effectively accusing him of fraud. And 
if it wasnt then it really had no grounds at all on which to cancel the policy. An insurer 
cannot reasonably just cancel cover mid-term. Thats because, whether on grounds of fraud 
or not, cancelling a policy mid-term has serious repercussions for a policyholder. So, where 
there has been no material change to the contract or relationship between them that existed 
at the onset of cover, and there has been no issue in the payment of the premium, an insurer 
can only wait for renewal. At which point no insurer is bound to offer cover again for the 
following year.  I said provisionally that I understood why Ageas had some concerns about how unlucky 
Mr N has been with the two cars he purchased in the last few years and which were stolen. 
I, understand, where it has seen a recent crop of non-genuine claims, and that Mr Ns claim 
bears some of the same hallmarks, Ageas would be worried. But it noting these hallmarks 
and being worried, arent sufficient grounds for it to do what it did  either with cancelling the 
policy or declining the claim. So it acted unfairly and unreasonably, and Mr N was caused 
upset as a result.  
Putting things right
I require Ageas to:
Remove the record of the cancellation from its own and any industry database.
Reinstate the policy  although Mr N will have to bring any premium payments up to date. 
But, if Mr N has recently found cover elsewhere, mark its own policy as cancelled by Mr N 
at the date the new cover began.
Accept Mr Ns claim for L2, moving to pay Mr Ns claim for the agreed value of the loss of 
his car less any excess. It should add interest* to its settlement from the date of loss until 
settlement is made.
Pay Mr N £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its unfair and 
unreasonable decision caused.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If Ageas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to Mr N, it should tell him how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr N a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman