DRN-3354453
The complaint
Mr L and Miss S complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has unfairly cancelled their 
option to make cash withdrawals from their Multiplan whole of life policies. 
What happened
Mr L and Miss S took out their policies in June 1991 through an independent financial 
adviser (IFA). They are reviewable unit-linked whole of life policies. The policies were 
originally offered by Equity and Law Life Assurance Society, then Friends Life, and finally 
Aviva took them over in 2017. 
In 2004, 2006, 2010, 2012 and 2015, Mr L and Miss S took cash withdrawals from each 
policy. They approached Aviva in March and August 2020 for a further withdrawal, asking for 
a quotation. Whilst this appeared to be initially accepted, Aviva then told Mr L and Miss S 
that it couldnt facilitate their request and its call handler had made a mistake.  
It said they could surrender the policies in full, but no further cash withdrawals could be 
made. This was because it had made a company decision to cease discretionary actions 
permitting alterations to policies that fell outside of set terms and conditions.  
In August 2020, Aviva upheld the complaint. It said the later information Mr L and Miss S 
received regarding withdrawals was correct. But it had wrongly told them initially that it could 
facilitate their request and it was sorry about that.  
Mr L and Miss S told Aviva they were still unhappy and brought the complaint to this service. 
In doing so, Miss S sent in a cross-referenced audit report for our consideration. I will not be 
setting that report out in full here given its length and volume of information. However, I 
thank Mr L and Miss S for their views and confirm I have read the report in its entirety. In 
summary, they said:
Mr L was a financial adviser at the time, so he was aware of the type of the policy 
theyd been sold;
they always knew they could take cash withdrawals providing £400 was retained in 
each policy as a minimum amount;
this was told to them again in March 2020;
it was only when they tried to follow that request through in August 2020 that Aviva 
changed its mind;
they receive yearly policy reviews and at no time did they receive any communication 
as policyholders that Aviva had made this decision regarding cash withdrawals, or 
other amendments that Aviva had made regarding their policy;
when Friends Life wrote to them in 2017 regarding the transfer of the policies, it said, 
there will be no change to your policy terms and conditions and any benefits will not 
change as a result of the transfers;
their documentation, the Policy Schedule Multiplan Qualifying and Non-Qualifying 
Policy includes the clause Option to Make Cash Withdrawals;
they called Aviva in March 2021 about this but it now said those are the wrong terms 
and conditions;
Friends Life seems to have made an error in 2014 changing each policys status from 
qualifying to non-qualifying, but this isnt their fault;
nonetheless, they still took a further withdrawal in 2015;
they dispute there was a call handler error in August 2020  instead after several 
days, a business decision was taken to no longer permit withdrawals and this is 
unreasonable;
if Aviva persists with the argument, then the policies must no longer be fit for purpose 
and be mis-sold. 
They went on to comment on all of the key pieces of evidence (such as calls and 
documents) provided to them in the subject access request. 
An investigator reviewed the complaint. He concluded that the Financial Ombudsman 
Service couldnt interfere with Avivas commercial decision in relation to cash withdrawals. 
He said he had not seen any part of the policy application that gave an option to select cash 
withdrawals. Though this was discretionarily allowed by Friends Life, that was a decision for 
it to take but it was not bound to allow the withdrawals. 
As Aviva then took the policies over at a later date, it decided not to continue withdrawals 
from each policy. Whilst he appreciated Mr L and Miss S felt the policies no longer meet their 
needs, it was up to Aviva as to how it managed each policy.  
However, he did note that Aviva removed the option from Mr L and Miss S without warning, 
and this had clearly caused them upset. He felt it should pay them £100 to account for that. 
Aviva accepted the investigators view. It agreed to pay the compensation proposed.  
However, Mr L and Miss S did not agree with the outcome of the complaint. They said they 
remained unhappy that they will have to continue to pay policy premiums in order to maintain 
the life assurance cover when the investment savings have no value. 
They went on to make further detailed submissions in a letter to our investigator of April 
2022. Again, I will not be setting that letter out in full here for the reasons previously given 
though I have read it fully. In summary, they said they disagree with the view because:
in March 2020 they had been told by Aviva they could withdraw cash in the same 
way as previous years;
they remain of the view that the policies have been mis-sold to them, though they do 
not accept this was the fault of the IFA;
they believe a corporate mistake has occurred in 1991, if each policy was set up on 
the basis that withdrawals could not actually be made;
they were never provided the Multiplan Non-Qualifying Policy Rules and these were 
only issued after theyd complained to Aviva;
but they believe their policies were applied for under different Multiplan Qualifying 
Policy rules;
if their policies are non-qualifying due to Avivas error, then if one of them passed 
away the other would be liable for taxation on any gain from the policy which was not 
what they wanted;
they were never under any belief that the five previous cash withdrawals had 
operated on a discretionary basis;
they challenge the conclusions of the investigator that they didnt select the cash 
withdrawal option under each policy at the point of sale;to the contrary they took out the policies out on the understanding that they could 
take cash withdrawals with the caveat that the sum assured would decrease and 
£400 had to be maintained in each policy;
having gone through their policy application, there is no section on the application 
that they completed to select the option at the start of the policy for cash withdrawals;
if the cash withdrawal benefit was never on the application to select and 
subsequently not included on their Policy Schedule and Policy Booklet how were 
they able to exercise this benefit and withdraw cash on several occasions?;
they did not take these policies out on the basis of a discretionary arrangement;
if a mistake had been made then Friends Life ought to have discovered this in 2004;
they were able to exercise the benefit for 29 years fully believing their policies were 
performing to their expectations;
therefore it came as a bombshell in August 2020 that they could no longer exercise 
the cash withdrawal benefit;
they had no communication regarding this significant change from Aviva until the 
complaint was raised;
Avivas only effort to resolve the matter has been an apology;
they feel that since the takeover from Friends Life in 2017, Aviva has continued to 
collect their policy premiums under false pretences;
the false pretences are that in order to retain their life assurance they have to 
continue to pay the investment premiums which now have no value because they 
cannot be withdrawn without full surrender of each whole policy;
the premiums will never exceed the sums assured so they believe this makes the 
investment element of each policy worthless;
they have paid some £19,400 in policy premiums but the combined surrender value 
is only approximately £5,000;
if they surrender the policy, theyve lost £14,4000 and their life cover;
£100 is inappropriate compensation;
the Financial Ombudsman Service website explain that if youve lost out financially, 
well look to put you back in the position youd be in if the business hadnt got it 
wrong;
they have identified (if they surrender the policies) a significant financial loss 
combined with the anxiety and frustration since 2020;
so, £100, which is equivalent of one months premiums to Aviva is unacceptable to 
compensate their situation;
if they did raise a mis-sale complaint, the IFA has ceased trading;
at the start of the process with this service, they were asked what they wanted as a 
satisfactory outcome;
what they want is their right to continue each policy with all the benefits they believed 
they purchased at the point of sale in 1991  meaning they can continue to take cash 
withdrawals;
it should make no difference to Aviva as doing so reduces their sums assured;
alternatively, they want to be able to part-surrender the policies for the £5,000.00 
investment element, switch to life cover only and retain the current reduced sums 
assured with the accidental benefit  meaning they pay agreed and adjusted reduced 
premiums only on the retained life assurance.
After they had been given an opportunity to provide their view in full, Mr L and Miss S said 
they wanted the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the effort Miss S has undertaken in terms of supplying evidence and compiling 
reports for this service. But, I wont be addressing every individual submission Miss S and Mr 
L have made. I have read them but I am not required to comment on each point. My remit is 
to make findings on what I believe to be fair and reasonable to both parties in the 
circumstances. I will therefore set out my reasoning for what I consider are the central issues 
in this complaint as I see them, based on the file before me. 
Having looked at everything, I also believe this complaint should be upheld and that 
compensation is due to Mr L and Miss S for the upset theyve been caused. I have also 
reached the same view as our investigator that Aviva otherwise is not obliged to permit 
further cash withdrawals under the policy. Ill explain my reasons for that below.   
Firstly, Mr L and Miss S have explained how they believe they took out qualifying policies  
that is correct. What that means is any final amount paid on maturity is paid tax free to the 
policyholder. There are specific requirements set out by HM Revenue & Customs that 
policies must comply with in order to be qualifying and these policies have limited flexibility.  
The policies became non-qualifying in 2014. In their final response to our investigator, Mr L 
and Miss S raised concerns about that. But this wasnt part of the complaint to Aviva and I 
will not be making findings about the change. If required, Mr L and Miss S would need to put 
this matter to Aviva if that is now a new, separate complaint. 
The fact the Multiplans can be taken out on both qualifying and non-qualifying bases means 
there are two distinct sets of terms and conditions  and this is where some confusion has 
been caused during the life of the policies. Only the non-qualifying policies have a provision 
in the terms at section 5 entitled Option to Make Cash Withdrawals.  
Mr L and Miss S never had this option in their terms and conditions. They were given 
qualifying policy terms and conditions and Miss S supplied those to our service when 
forwarding the complaint. As noted, qualifying policies have less flexibility than non-
qualifying ones given the impact on their complex tax arrangements. Despite this, the 
predecessor businesses allowed the option to be exercised on the four occasions. But, 
neither business was obliged to do so.  
The terms and conditions are set from the outset  so even though the policies have since 
become non-qualifying, the original terms for the qualifying policy apply. But even if I were to 
disregard that, I still dont believe Mr L and Miss S ever had this option set up for their 
policies.  
Both sets of policy terms must be read alongside the policy schedules, setting out which 
additional options were selected under the subsidiary benefits section. And while some 
benefits such as the accidental death benefit were chosen, the option to make cash 
withdrawals was not. These selections were made with the IFA at the outset. If Mr L and 
Miss S hold concerns about the sale of the policies, again that forms the subject of a 
separate complaint to that business (or the Financial Services Compensation Scheme). 
I appreciate how frustrating matters have been for Mr L and Miss S as they only realised this 
option was not open to them once Aviva made a decision to stop allowing discretionary 
arrangements outside of policy terms. Though I believe Aviva ought to have acted differently 
in 2020 with regards to the communication and information is gave to Mr L and Miss S, I 
cannot uphold the complaint about the right to make the withdrawals.
What this service does is consider if a business has treated a customer unfairly because of actions or inactions. And if it has done so, we then go on to consider what ought to be done 
to put the mistake(s) right. 
The right outcome here is not to perpetuate a mistaken arrangement for cash withdrawals 
when it was 1) never a feature of a qualifying policy and 2) not an option selected by either 
Mr L or Miss S at the time if the policies were actually non-qualifying instead. Whilst 
withdrawals have been a benefit that Equity and Law and Friends Life allowed, it did so 
beyond any binding terms and conditions for the policies. I cant hold Aviva liable for the 
same arrangement and it is entitled to make legitimate commercial judgments about that.    
I therefore do not believe I should order Aviva to reinstate the previous discretionary 
arrangement. However, I do believe that it has made a number of mistakes in relation to Mr 
L and Miss Ss request and communications.
Putting things right
Avivas actions have caused a great deal of confusion and upset for Mr L and Miss S. 
Firstly, the mistake went beyond the matters of August 2020. A query was originally made in 
March 2020 and at that time Mr L and Miss S were wrongly told they could make their 
withdrawals. They relied on this based on the actions of the predecessor businesses and 
when they contacted Aviva again in August 2020 they were initially led to believe the 
withdrawals were being processed.  
Additionally, Aviva sent Mr L and Miss S the wrong policy terms in March 2021, leading to 
further upset and distress for them given the matter is already confusing. That action 
perpetuated their upset.  
I know Miss S feels that as she has spent many hours compiling evidence and reports, this 
ought to be reflected in any award I make. But our approach here is not to make a specific 
award for someones time. And it was Miss Ss choice to provide her chosen level of detail. 
We are an informal dispute resolution service; we dont require legal submissions from 
complainants and were not set up to fine or punish businesses. Our role is to reach a fair 
and reasonable outcome  and where required in the event if distress or upset, make an 
award that recognises the impact a businesss mistake had on complainants. 
I think Avivas mistakes have caused considerable worry and distress to Mr L and Miss S for 
several months. I therefore believe an award of £500 is appropriate in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Whilst I do not believe that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
unfairly cancelled Mr L and Miss Ss option to make cash withdrawals from their Multiplan 
whole of life policies, I do find its actions have caused them notable upset. 
I direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to make the payment set out above. I make no 
other award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman