DRN-3160707
The complaint
Mr C complains about the transfer of the defined benefits (DB) he held in the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says he was advised to transfer by 
Bob Little & Co Ltd (BL, the respondent business in this complaint) and another financial 
business (which Ill call Firm E). He believes that the advice provided was unsuitable for him 
and has resulted in him suffering a significant financial loss.
Mr C is being represented by a third party but for ease Ill refer to all their comments as 
those of Mr C.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Cs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new DB scheme 
(BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to a 
private pension arrangement. 
Mr C was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do so he contacted BL for 
advice. Mr C met with BL in November 2016, during which it gathered information about his 
circumstances and objectives. But as BL didnt hold the relevant permission from the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to advise on the transfer of his defined benefits in the 
BSPS, it said Firm E would provide Mr C with advice. BL had an established business 
arrangement with Firm E, whereby Firm E would provide the pension transfer advice before 
referring the client back to BL for ongoing investment advice, and this arrangement was 
followed for Mr C. 
Firm E completed a transfer value analysis report (TVAS) and a further fact find in a 
meeting with Mr C. It provided him with a suitability report in January 2017 advising him to 
transfer out of the BSPS to a personal pension plan. Mr C accepted this recommendation 
and £318,383.19 was then transferred to the new personal pension and was invested with 
P in a managed fund. Firm E charged Mr C £14,327.23 for the advice, which was 
equivalent to 4.5% of his transfer value. As the introducer, BL received £5,014.53 of this. 
Mr C was then referred back to BL for ongoing advice and the servicing of his pension.
Whilst Firm E provided advice on Mr Cs BSPS pension, BL provided mortgage advice to 
Mr C and his wife. In May 2017 Mr C then met with BL to discuss potentially switching 
another of his personal pension plans to P. BL later advised Mr C on a fund switch within his 
plan with P. 
In 2020 Mr C complained to BL about the advice hed been given. He said BL had advised 
him to transfer out of the BSPS during the meeting he had with it in November 2016. By this 
time, Firm E had gone into liquidation.
BL told Mr C it hadnt provided him with any advice to transfer his BSPS pension, this was 
done by Firm E.
Mr C didnt agree and asked our Service to consider his complaint about BL. Mr C said BL 
had engaged in a joint venture with Firm E and so it should share liability for the loss caused 
by the transfer.
BL told our Service that we couldnt look into Mr Cs concerns as the activity he was 
complaining about did not fall within our jurisdiction and because Mr C had brought his 
concerns to us too late. 
Our Investigator considered jurisdiction and was of the view the matter was one our Service 
could consider. However, they didnt uphold the merits of the complaint. They werent 
persuaded that BL had advised Mr C to transfer his pension and they were satisfied the 
transfer had taken place because of Firm Es advice. 
BL disagreed with their view on jurisdiction but accepted the merits findings. Mr C accepted 
the jurisdiction findings but didnt accept the Investigators view on the merits of his 
complaint. So, the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I begin, Id like to be clear that my decision wont address every point or comment 
made by either Mr C or BL. I mean no discourtesy by this, and Id like to reassure all parties 
that I have considered all the comments and evidence theyve provided to our service. 
But my decision will only address what I see to be relevant in reaching a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint. 
Can I consider Mr Cs complaint? 
The rules about complaining to the Ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. These are known as the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules and can be found in 
the FCAs handbook.
DISP 2.8.2 says: The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service: (1) more than six months after the date on which the 
respondent sent the complainant its final response, redress determination or summary 
resolution communication; 
The relevant dates for this complaint are as follows:
17 February 2020  Mr C complained to BL.
26 February 2020 - BL responded via letter saying it didnt provide the advice.
15 May 2020 - Mr C referred his complaint to our service. 
After reviewing the February 2020 letter BL sent Mr C, Im satisfied it didnt meet the 
requirements of a final response, redress determination or summary resolution 
communication. I say this noting DISP requires, amongst other things, for these 
communications to contain referral rights to our Service citing the six month referral time limit 
- something that wasnt included in this letter. In any event, Mr C also contacted our Service within six months of receiving this letter. 
So, Im satisfied this complaint cannot be time barred on the basis of the six month referral 
time limit as BL has suggested. 
DISP 2.3.1 also says that we can only consider complaints relating to certain specified 
activities, including regulated activities, and ancillary activities.
Ancillary activity is defined in the FCA Handbook as:
An activity which is not a regulated activity but which is:
a) carried on in connection with a regulated activity; or
b) held out as being for the purposes of a regulated activity.
In relation to ancillary activities, the handbook definition quoted above clearly allows that the 
ancillary link may exist both forwards and backwards in time. A firm may carry on ancillary 
activities in connection with regulated activities it intends to carry on in future as well as 
regulated activities it is in the process of carrying on or has already carried on.
It isnt in dispute that BL carried out the initial fact-finding with Mr C, introduced Mr C to 
Firm E, and then provided advice after the transfer. But fact-finding is not a regulated 
activity. Introducing is also not a regulated activity where the introduction is made to an 
authorised firm with a view to advice or the exercise of discretion in relation to investments. 
This type of introduction is specifically excluded by Article 33 of the Regulated Activities 
Order. However, the ongoing advice provided after the transfer was a regulated activity, 
although as I understand no fault in that advice is alleged nor any loss attributed to such a 
fault  the complaint is entirely about the events prior to the transfer advice and that advice 
itself.
BL says it didnt give Mr C any advice and that it didnt arrange the pension plan with P. 
It also says that Firm E didnt require Mr C to sign an agreement for BL to provide the 
ongoing transfer advice. It noted some clients didnt return to BL and that Mr C didnt start 
paying for its advice until June 2017, over a month after his transfer had completed. 
I appreciate that Mr C didnt sign BLs client agreement until June 2017, but whether or not 
BL carried on a regulated activity, or an ancillary activity, prior to that doesnt depend on the 
date Mr C formally agreed to become BLs client. It isnt in dispute that BL carried on a 
regulated activity when it started giving Mr C ongoing advice and servicing his pension. 
So, the key issue here is whether the earlier fact-finding and introduction to Firm E can be 
considered as ancillary to the later ongoing advice.
BL may argue that at the point of its early contact with Mr C, it couldnt have known that 
Firm E would go on to advise Mr C to transfer his BSPS benefits. And as the provision of 
ongoing advice was dependent on the advice to transfer, its early contact cannot be 
considered as ancillary. But Firm E did in fact advise Mr C to transfer out of the BSPS and 
servicing was then transferred to BL. So, Im satisfied there is a clear connection between 
the introduction, transfer advice, and ongoing advice, and that the first link in that chain 
would therefore be ancillary to the third. I also note that the nature of the introducer 
agreement between BL and Firm E was such that servicing would normally be transferred 
back to BL after advice was given. Whilst this was an option and not guaranteed, as BL has 
pointed out, its clear from BLs fact-find that it discussed Mr Cs intended retirement age and 
his plans for the fund in retirement, and it seems likely that both parties envisaged the 
introduction leading to BL providing ongoing advice on these benefits later. Im aware that as 
part of this initial meeting BL also agreed to provide Mr C with advice on a different personal 
pension he held, and so these same discussions would have been necessary in respect of 
this advice. But I also note Mr C continued to contact BL directly in relation to the advice Firm E was providing throughout the process. And this does indicate both parties envisaged 
this relationship continuing. So, I think BLs prior activities were ancillary to its later provision 
of ongoing advice.
For this reason, I think the complaint is within our jurisdiction regardless of whether or not BL 
went beyond its role of introducing into arranging or advising on the pension. DISP 2.3.1 
states that we can consider a complaint about acts or omissions that are ancillary activities 
carried on in connection with a regulated activity. Im satisfied that there is a regulated 
activity to which the introduction can be connected. As Ive said, I think there is an ancillary 
link between BLs prior activities and the later ongoing advice, and on that basis I believe we 
can consider the complaint about those prior activities. To my mind, it doesnt matter that 
Mr C hasnt complained about the ongoing advice. All that matters is that there is a regulated 
activity to which the activities he has complained about are ancillary.
The complaint
My understanding of Mr Cs position is that BL should be held liable because it went beyond 
its role of introducer. Mr C says it verbally advised him to transfer his pension and he relied 
upon that advice. Mr C also argues there was a joint venture between BL and Firm E and 
that BL did not treat him fairly or have regard to his best interests. Ill address each point in 
turn. 
Did BL advise Mr C to transfer?
BL did not have permission from the FCA to advise on the transfer of DB occupational 
pension schemes. For this reason, it had an arrangement in place with Firm E, where Firm E 
would provide advice on the transfer of the occupational scheme and the client would be 
referred back to BL for ongoing advice if the transfer went ahead. 
Having considered the available evidence, Im not persuaded that BL advised Mr C to 
transfer his BSPS benefits  Ill explain why. 
Its clear that Mr C met with BLs adviser in 2016 and that he wanted to discuss his BSPS 
pension. Ive looked at the paperwork completed at that time and I can see a fact find was 
done in Mr Cs initial meeting with BL which carried BLs branding. This stated that Mr C 
attended the office as many of Mr Cs colleagues have decided to transfer the value of their 
pension fund into their own Personal Pension Plan which [Mr C] would like to discuss.
The fact find notes go on to state:
Explained to [Mr C] that although we are unable to facilitate the transfer, we refer cases to a 
Pension Transfer Specialistwho charges 4.5%. 
Despite being unable to provide advice on the transfer, we discussed in detail the options 
open to [Mr C] which included remaining within the scheme and the possibility of the scheme 
being placed in the Pension Protection Fund or transferring the scheme into his own 
personal pension. Pros and cons of both schemes were considered including guaranteed 
income v flexible income / death benefits / investment risk associated with Flexi Access 
Drawdown and the future of the PPF and how the scheme is funded.
An update recorded on this fact find on 1 December 2016 says Mr C has decided that he 
would like to consider transferring his pension  case referred to [Firm E].
Mr C says the fact that BL discussed at length topics that were relevant to whether it would 
have been suitable to transfer, supports his argument that BL strayed into providing advice. But I dont think that discussing the advantages and disadvantages of a course of action in 
general terms can be considered to be advice. I say this because the fact find gives no 
indication that BL would be using this information to provide Mr C with advice directly, but 
instead identifies Firm E as the business who would provide advice. Whilst there is reference 
to the transfer, the evidence indicates this was an option to be discussed, something Mr C 
wished to consider - this doesnt, in my view, amount to BL providing advice that Mr C 
should transfer. 
Whilst I appreciate that Mr C may not have differentiated between BLs actions and those of 
Firm E, as can be seen from his later emails to BL about the transfer advice, I think BL was 
clear that Firm E was providing the advice. And I cant see that BL ever responded to Mr Cs 
queries regarding the transfer advice - the evidence indicates this was done by Firm E. 
I accept that BLs adviser did a lot of the fact-finding with Mr C and discussed his objectives. 
But apart from the initial fact-finding document, the remaining work required to put Mr C in a 
position to transfer was completed by Firm E. Firm E met with Mr C and completed a further 
fact find, as well as a risk assessment, and gave a formal recommendation to Mr C in 
writing. Whilst this meeting occurred in BLs offices, Mr C has confirmed there was no BL 
representative present. So, I think there was a distinction in the two firms roles here, even if 
this wasnt fully appreciated by Mr C at that time. Mr C then confirmed he accepted Firm Es 
advice. Mr C has told us the transfer forms were later provided to him by BL and not Firm E 
but even if this was the case, this alone doesnt persuade me BL provided the advice.
Mr C has also said he was verbally encouraged by BL to transfer his pension in the initial 
meeting. I think BL was probably hoping that Firm E would advise Mr C to transfer out of the 
BSPS so it could receive the initial introducer fees and become the ongoing adviser and 
receive fees for this. And its possible that Mr C believed BL was advocating for the transfer 
of his benefits. But I havent seen sufficient evidence to show that BL gave Mr C a personal 
recommendation, either verbally or in writing. In my view, the evidence shows that it was 
Firm E that advised Mr C to transfer out of the BSPS, and not BL.
I have no way of verifying precisely what was said in the initial meeting, so I accept it is 
possible that BL strayed into giving Mr C verbal advice to transfer his BSPS benefits as Mr C 
has suggested. That being said, I dont think Mr C couldve done so based on those 
interactions alone. The transfer value quotation provided by the trustees of the BSPS stated 
that Mr C would be required to provide evidence that he had taken appropriate financial 
advice if he wanted to transfer his BSPS benefits to a flexible benefits scheme. 
This requirement was repeated in the transfer value discharge form, which further stated that 
Mr C would need to provide a signed confirmation from his adviser that such advice had 
been given. Firm E issued a suitability report addressed to Mr C recommending that he 
transfer out of BSPS. BL did not produce such a document as it did not give Mr C any formal 
advice in respect of his pension. So, Mr C couldnt have transferred out of BSPS based on 
the meeting he had with BL or any verbal advice he feels he was given  he wouldnt have 
been able to meet the trustees requirements. 
Ultimately, Im satisfied Firm E gave the advice for Mr C to transfer out of the BSPS. And I 
dont think BLs earlier involvement should automatically make BL liable for the suitability of 
the pension transfer advice provided by Firm E. It is my view that Firm E remains fully 
responsible for the advice it gave Mr C to transfer. 
I have nevertheless considered whether Mr C would have still opted to transfer his benefits 
out of the BSPS to a personal arrangement if Firm E had advised him not to transfer. 
Mr Cs representative says Mr C was persuaded to transfer based upon his interactions with 
both BL and Firm E. But on balance I dont think Mr C wouldve gone against the advice 
provided by Firm E. Mr C was an inexperienced investor and he tells us his main objective was to protect his benefits. So, if Firm E had provided Mr C with clear advice in writing 
against transferring, explaining why it wasnt suitable for him, I dont think Mr C wouldve 
acted against that advice purely based on his earlier discussion with BL. 
In light of what Ive said above, its my decision that it was Firm Es advice that ultimately 
enabled Mr C to transfer. If this advice was unsuitable, then I think Firm E is responsible for 
Mr Cs losses flowing from the transfer. 
Joint liability? 
Mr C says a joint venture existed between BL and Firm E to facilitate Mr C transferring out of 
the BSPS and that both businesses remain jointly liable for any financial loss hes suffered. 
For the reasons Ive already set out above, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold 
BL liable for the advice given to Mr C to transfer his BSPS benefits. Although Mr Cs 
representative states that Mr C was verbally advised to transfer by BL and that the two firms 
were working together, Im satisfied Mr C transferred his BSPS benefits because Firm E 
advised him to do so, independently of BLs involvement. So, I think Mr Cs losses flow from 
Firm Es advice, rather than because of any interaction he had with BL. 
Did BL treat Mr C unfairly or fail to have due regard to his best interests?
Mr C has suggested that BL didnt treat him fairly or act in his best interests by partnering 
with Firm E. He says BL ought to have known that transferring out of a DB scheme was 
rarely the right thing to do. Instead, he said it endorsed the advice. Mr C has stressed that a 
number of customers seeking advice on their BSPS benefits were introduced by BL to 
Firm E and that all were advised to transfer. Mr C has suggested a pattern of behaviour can 
be drawn from this and that BL ought to have known Firm E was acting inappropriately in the 
circumstances and taken appropriate steps to safeguard clients.
As I have said above, BL did not have the necessary regulatory permission to advise Mr C 
on the transfer of his BSPS benefits. So, BL could not have advised Mr C against 
transferring, based on what it may have generally known about the regulators starting 
position that it wont usually be in a customers best interests to transfer out. As BL didnt 
have the necessary permissions, it referred Mr C to Firm E, which was regulated by the FCA 
to provide pension transfer advice. I dont think BL could reasonably be expected to carry out 
further due diligence on Firm E, particularly as Firm E had the necessary permissions from 
the FCA to provide this advice. And, as a regulated adviser, it was also required to treat 
Mr C fairly, act in his best interests and provide him with suitable advice.
Summary
In conclusion, I havent seen any evidence that it was BLs advice that ultimately led to 
Mr Cs decision to transfer out of the BSPS, without the actions of Firm E. I am also not 
persuaded that BL made an error or treated Mr C unfairly in the role it carried out. 
Because of this, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me 
to require BL to pay compensation to Mr C or to take any further action in response to this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman