DRN-3294062
The complaint
Mr G complains that West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) wouldnt pay a claim on his motor 
insurance. West Bay includes other companies acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr G had motor insurance underwritten by West Bay. He had an accident and made a claim 
on his insurance policy. Mr Gs insurance policy didnt cover him for business use, and West 
Bay decided he had been driving his car for business purposes. So West Bay refused to pay 
the claim and cancelled the policy from the start date.
Mr G complained to West Bay, but West Bay didnt uphold his complaint, saying that he had 
said in phone calls that he used the car for business.
Mr G wasnt happy with this response, and complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint, saying the policy didnt include business use, but during the claim Mr 
G said he did use the car for business. 
Mr G didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me. Mr G says he didnt use the car 
for business use, only for commuting to work, and on the day of the accident he was taking 
his family out. Mr G wants West Bay to pay out on the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Gs car was leased by his employer, but he arranged the insurance. West Bay has 
explained he did this via a price comparison website. West Bay says that whatever answers 
are given on this website are copied over to the statement of insurance. Mr Gs statement of 
insurance said: 
Cover details
Use required: Use for social, domestic and pleasure purposes (including commuting to 
and from a permanent place of work).
The statement of insurance recorded Mr Gs occupation as Delivery Driver.
Mr Gs certificate of motor insurance said:
Limitations as to use 
Use for social, domestic and pleasure purposes (including commuting to and from a 
permanent place of work)
Exclusions 
Use for any business purposes
The letter sent with the insurance documents said:
It is important that the information you provide throughout the quote and duration of the 
policy is accurate. Failure to disclose correct and complete information to the best of your 
knowledge and belief may result in increased premiums, refusal of a claim or not being fully 
paid, your policy being cancelled or being made null & void and being treated as if it never 
existed.
This wording is repeated in the statement of insurance and elsewhere.
The letter asked Mr G to check the documents and call if anything was incorrect.
Mr G says in his complaint to this service that that he didnt use the car for business, only for 
driving to and from work. He says he works in a warehouse and doesnt visit customers.
Ive listened to a call made by a colleague of Mr Gs to West Bay. This call was made to 
report the accident. The colleague said she was calling on behalf of Mr G and he was sitting 
next to her. She passed the phone to Mr G to do the security checks and he confirmed he 
was happy for West Bay to speak to her. At times it sounds as though the colleague asked 
Mr G questions and passed on what he said to the call handler.
The colleague said it was a company car, and on the day of the accident Mr G was on his 
way to see a customer, and took his family with him. The call handler asked if it was a 
common thing that Mr G went to see customers, and did he have customers in different 
locations. The colleague said Mr G would visit customers here and there to make sure 
everything was fine. The colleague said it was part of Mr Gs job to go and see customers. 
A few days later West Bay called Mr G. The call handler explained that Mr Gs colleague had 
said he had been on his way to see a customer when the accident happened. The call 
handler asked did Mr G travel to quite a lot of different places to check on customers, and 
did he do this often. Mr G said yes. In answer to other questions Mr G said he only did so in 
the car hed had the accident in, not other vehicles, and that he went to quite a few different 
places, not just one.
While Mr Gs insurance documents dont explicitly define what is meant by business use, I 
think taken together the phrases:
Limitations as to use 
Use for social, domestic and pleasure purposes (including commuting to and from a 
permanent place of work)
Exclusions 
Use for any business purposes
make it quite clear that driving to different places to see customers wasnt covered. And Im 
satisfied from the phone calls that Mr G had been using his car to do this, and that this 
comes under business purposes.  Mr G says he didnt hear his colleague say he visited 
customers, and if he had he would have stopped her immediately. But I think its clear from 
the call recording that Mr G was present for most if not all the call, and his colleague said more than once that he visited customers. Anyway in the second call Mr G also told West 
Bay himself that part of his job was to visit customers in the car.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance policy. 
If a consumer fails to do so, the insurer has certain remedies, provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
I think Mr G failed to take reasonable care when answering the question about the use 
required. West Bay has provided evidence that if he had said he used the car for business 
purposes, it wouldnt have offered the cover at all, because of his stated occupation. So Im 
satisfied this was a qualifying misrepresentation. West Bay hasnt suggested the 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, and Im satisfied this was a careless 
misrepresentation.
So Ive looked at what CIDRA says West Bay could have done when it found out about the 
misrepresentation in a new policy like the one Mr G took out. In cases of careless 
misrepresentation where the insurer wouldnt have offered the policy at all, it can avoid the 
policy. This means the policy will be cancelled from the date it was taken out, and it will be 
as if it never existed. If there has been a claim the insurer wont have to pay it. However the 
insurer must refund all the premiums paid. 
West Bay has cancelled Mr Gs policy from the start date, refused his claim and refunded the 
premiums hes paid. I think that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. So I wont be asking West Bay 
Insurance Plc to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman