DRN-3931641
Complaint
Ms Ds complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy that 
remained in place after Ms D ceased to be employed. She would like Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited (Lloyds) to refund the premiums she paid for the period it was the 
insurer. 
Ms Ds daughter is representing her but as Ms D remains the complainant, Ive only referred 
to Ms D throughout the complaint.  
Background 
Ms D took out a credit card PPI in 1994. In 1995 Ms D stopped working and says she hasnt 
worked since. But she didnt cancel the PPI. 
Ms D has previously raised a complaint about the sale of the PPI  and whilst that wasnt 
upheld, she did receive compensation for undisclosed commission and profit share as part of 
that complaint. 
The insurance company that provided the insurance from 1995 to 2009, refunded all the 
premiums it had collected (less any amounts refunded in relation to her complaint about 
undisclosed commission). But it said that Lloyds was the insurer from 2009 until the policy 
was cancelled in 2013. So it could not refund those amounts.
Ms D (through our service), asked Lloyds to refund the premiums it had collected from 2009 
until cancellation. But Lloyds did not respond. 
Our investigator then formally looked into the complaint. He explained that based on the 
evidence hed seen, Ms D hadnt worked since 1995 so felt Lloyds ought to refund any PPI it 
had charged Ms D and any associated interest. But he didnt recommend any additional 
compensatory interest to be refunded. He also recommended £200 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by Lloyds not responding to the complaint. 
Lloyds still did not respond so the complaint has been passed to me. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided that the complaint should be upheld for the same reasons 
as those set out by our adjudicator. 
Ms D says she hasnt worked since 1995. Ms D has submitted her p45 from 1995 as well as 
tax records obtained from Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs (HMRC) from 2000-2003 
indicating she wasnt employed. Based on the records shes been able to submit, in 
conjunction with her testimony, which has been consistent  Im satisfied Ms D hasnt 
worked since 1995. 
Ive been told that Lloyds has previously said that the policy provided cover for risks other 
than PPI such as life insurance. As it potentially remained on risk of paying other claims,  it 
didnt have to refund the premiums paid. 
But I disagree. Ive looked at the policy terms that likely apply to Ms Ds PPI and it says the 
following: 
In additional all cover and benefits will end on the earliest of the following: 
when you cease to be gainfully employed or employed for 16 hours or more per 
week
Based on the PPI policy terms, Ms Ds cover ended when she stopped working and she 
wouldnt have been able to claim for any elements of the policy  be that accident, sickness, 
unemployment or life. So Im not satisfied that Lloyds remained on risk and therefore should 
be allowed to keep the premiums. 
Therefore, as explained by our adjudicator, I think Lloyds should refund the premiums Ms D 
paid and associated credit card interest, for the period it was the insurer of this policy. My 
understanding is that Lloyds was the insurer from 2009 until the policy was cancelled. 
It may be helpful to clarify that it was Ms Ds responsibility to cancel the PPI if it no longer 
met her needs. So the policy remaining in place was not due to an error on the part of 
Lloyds. Insurers are not under any obligation to check in with consumers to ensure the policy 
is still right for them, but consumers are expected to contact their insurer to cancel it if it no 
longer meets their needs. So, while I understand Ms D has paid premiums despite not being 
in a position to utilise the cover  this was not due to an error on the part of Lloyds. So I dont 
think it needs to pay her any compensatory interest for being deprived of the money shes 
paid in premiums. 
Having said that, I think it was clear from when Lloyds was first contacted that Ms Ds 
complaint should have been upheld and the premiums should have been refunded. But 
Lloyds has not replied or responded to Ms Ds complaint. Ms D has spent a considerable 
amount of time and effort trying to bring this complaint to a resolution. So as explained by 
our adjudicator, I agree that Lloyds should pay £200 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
Putting things right 
So, Lloyds should refund the PPI premiums Ms D paid, as well as any associated 
interest charged on those premiums for the period it was the insurer. 
Lloyds can take off any amounts it has already refunded in relation to Mrs Ds 
complaint about undisclosed commission. 
Lloyds should pay Ms D £200 for the trouble and upset caused 
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint and Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman