DRN-1517539
 
The complaint
Mr H complains Barclays Bank Plc will not refund a disputed transaction. 
What happened 
Mr H complained about an online transfer made from his Barclays account to another 
beneficiary bank.  The transfer was for £1550 and used up almost all the money left in Mr 
Hs account.  It was made using his mobile banking app on his own personal phone.
Barclays did not uphold his complaint. It noted that just before the disputed transaction, Mr H 
had paid £1100 into his account.  Without this money, the transaction would not have been 
possible. Mr H could not provide an explanation as to how a third party could have accessed 
his mobile which was password protected as well as his app  which was also password 
protected.
So, Mr H brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator did not think Barclays needed to do anymore  so Mr H asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally speaking, Barclays is entitled to hold Mr H liable for this transaction if the evidence 
shows he authorised it.  But it needs to show that Mr H consented to the payment as well as 
the payment being authenticated.
Im satisfied on the evidence I have seen that the transfer of £1550 was authenticated. It was 
made using Mr Hs personal phone and his banking app.  I therefore need to decide if he 
consented to the payments too.
Based on the following, I am satisfied that he consented:
there is no credible explanation as to how a third party might have been able to 
access his phone;
there is no credible explanation as to how a third party would know the security 
details of his phone or his mobile banking app;
there is no credible explanation as to a third party would be able to set up a new 
payee once they had access to the phone;
there is no credible explanation as to how a third party would know the balance of Mr 
Hs account in order to make the transaction considering the funds only credited his 
account a short while earlier;
and there is no real explanation as to why or how Mr H was in possession of £1100 before paying the money into his account.
 
In the circumstances, I think Mr H made this payment himself or authorised someone else to 
make it.  Either way, I wont be asking Barclays to refund it.
My final decision
 My final decision is that i do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman