DRN-2627063
The complaint
Miss K has complained Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, didnt credit a deposit made 
to her account.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some key events here. 
Miss K says in May 2020 her father went to a Halifax branch to pay cash into her account. 
He was asked to use a self-service deposit machine. Miss Ks father used her account card 
to make a cash deposit of £1,000 to her account. The machine accepted the cash but did not 
provide a receipt. 
Miss K complains as the funds did not credit her account. Shes also unhappy the CCTV 
footage shed requested to see, which she believes wouldve proved her father deposited the 
money was no longer available due to the length of time it took Halifax to action her request. 
Halifax declined Miss Ks claim as there was no record of the deposit and no error found with 
the deposit machine used by her father. It apologised for the CCTV footage no longer being 
available. But explained, in any event, generally CCTV would not be reviewed for this type of 
claim nor would it have altered its decision. 
Miss K remained unhappy. She referred her complaint to this service, where one of our 
investigators considered it. She initially upheld Miss Ks complaint as Halifax hadnt provided 
any evidence to satisfy her that the deposit into Miss Ks account wasnt unsuccessful due to 
an issue with the deposit machine. She accepted Miss K and her fathers account of events 
and recommended that, Halifax pay Miss K £1,000. However, Halifax responded by 
providing evidence it had relied on, which amongst other things included bank staff 
statements and notes recorded from the time the matter was raised.  
Our investigator revised her findings, explaining it isnt uncommon for banks to not keep 
footage that is older than 30 days, and in any event, Halifax had confirmed it wouldnt review 
CCTV footage in these circumstances. She didnt think this was unreasonable. She also 
didnt think it would be fair to make assumptions about what the CCTV would (or wouldnt) 
have shown as footage isnt always clear, nor does it always show what is required. She 
considered the evidence that she did have and decided, on balance, of all the possible 
scenarios it was most likely the money either wasnt accepted into the deposit machine or 
that it was never deposited. In any case, she couldnt fairly ask Halifax to refund the money.
Miss K disagreed. She didnt think the outcome reached by our investigator was fair. She 
maintains her father deposited £1,000 into her account. She raised her concern around staff 
dishonesty, that whilst she didnt wish to accuse any members of staff, if the money was 
rejected, its quite possible it couldve been taken, which she thinks would explain why the 
machine balanced. 
Ultimately, Miss K feels Halifax have been negligent in securing crucial CCTV footage, 
despite her requesting it within 10 days of the incident, stressing the urgency and importance 
of the request. It has poorly handled her dispute claim and even failed to provide a response 
to our service until after the investigator recommended that it refund the loss. For these 
reasons, Miss K thinks it would be fair to assume the footage wouldve helped support her 
claim and thinks a fair outcome would be for Halifax to pay the £1,000. 
Miss K has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly similar 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
The crux of Miss Ks complaint is whether it was fair and reasonable of Halifax to decline her 
claim that her father used a self-service deposit machine to pay £1,000 cash into her 
account. So, Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any 
specific point, Id like to assure Miss K its not because Ive failed to take it on board and 
think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
I recognise Miss K feels strongly about Halifax not obtaining CCTV footage. In short, Im 
satisfied Halifax responded to Miss Ks data subject access request within the appropriate 
timescales. Its unfortunate, due to its CCTV data only being stored for 28 days, by the time 
it actioned Miss Ks request the footage was no longer available. As Ive explained to Miss K, 
it wouldn't be fair of me to speculate on what it may or may not have shown. Also, CCTV is 
often not definitive in resolving disputes of this nature. So, I have to base my decision about 
whether or not Halifaxs actions were fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint on the available evidence.
Its first important to note that I wasnt present when the events being complained of 
occurred. And its often difficult in a situation like this where its one partys word against 
another. But I have to make a decision based on what I think most likely happened. Miss K 
has been unable to provide a receipt or record of the deposit, but has maintained her father 
visited a Halifax branch, used a self-service machine to deposit £1,000 cash into her 
account. I have weighed up both Miss K and her fathers testimony with the evidence 
provided by Halifax to determine what I think is most likely in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
Miss K wasnt present at the time of the deposit, so she is relying on what her father has 
shared with her. I also dont doubt that Miss Ks father is a truthful person, and he believes 
he has provided an honest recollection of events. I can understand that it must be very 
upsetting for him to think that hes paid money into his daughters account which hasnt been 
credited to it. But I can see from the branch managers statement (given at the time) Miss Ks 
father was unsure of his version of the events. So, its quite possible he has made a mistake 
in his recollection of what happened.
 Halifax says the appropriate checks were carried out by the branch. The deposit machine 
balanced and there were no errors found. Ive thought about what Miss K has said about 
staff dishonesty. But an allegation of theft is a serious matter and one which needs to be 
supported by evidence. And in this case, I dont think there is evidence which sufficiently 
persuades me that, in these circumstances a member of staff seized the opportunity to steal 
money rejected by the deposit machine. Notwithstanding, a claim, of this nature is 
considered criminal and is a matter for the police.
    
So overall, whilst Miss K thinks her father deposited £1,000 into her account, taking into 
consideration all the above I agree with what our investigator has said and find it more likely 
that either; Miss Ks father has been mistaken, and he didnt deposit the money; and if he 
did, its more likely that the money wasnt accepted by the deposit machine and he walked 
away, not realising that this had happened. 
I appreciate Miss K will be disappointed in this outcome. But I hope she understands the 
reasons now for why it would not be reasonable, nor fair of me to uphold a complaint based 
solely on a her or her fathers testimony if, on balance, the evidence suggests otherwise. 
And as I think its unlikely her loss occurred as a result of Halifaxs mistake, Im satisfied, in 
these circumstances, its decision to not pay the missing credit is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Miss Ks complaint against 
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman