DRN-2789018
The complaint
L a company, complains that Revolut Ltd blocked its account without warning and closed it. 
L would like an explanation and compensation for the inconvenience of having the account 
blocked and closed.  And the embarrassment of having a directors bank card declined at a 
clients site.
L is represented by its director Mr H.
I am aware that Mr H has a complaint regarding his personal account which is being dealt 
with separately by this service.
What happened
L had a business account with Revolut.
On 6 January 2020 Mr H went to use his card at a clients site. The card was declined. Mr H 
says this was extremely embarrassing. He tried to contact Revolut and eventually had to 
send an email complaining about his card being declined.
Revolut says they carried out a review of the account on 3 January 2020 and blocked the 
account during the review. Revolut closed the account on 8 January 2020 giving 21 days 
notice. 
Mr H was unhappy that he hadnt been given any warning or a reason for the account being 
blocked and closed. 
Revolut replied to Mr Hs complaint on 20 January. They said they had been reviewing Ls 
account which is why it was blocked. They said they couldnt give L a reason for the block.
Mr H complained to our service. He thought Revolut didnt have a genuine reason for closing 
the account and had closed it because he had raised a complaint about the account being 
blocked. He thought Revolut had treated L unfairly when it had a duty to treat customers 
fairly under the FCA requirements. He was concerned that because Revolut used an 
automated system it meant accounts were suspended unfairly.
 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt think it was unfair for Revolut to 
rely on an automated system. He considered the terms and conditions and thought Revout 
had followed them correctly. He didnt think Revolut had done anything wrong when it 
reviewed, blocked and closed Ls account. He also said Revolut didnt have to provide 
reasons for the review and closure of Ls account.
Mr H was unhappy with the investigators view. He said he wanted Revolut to provide a 
proper explanation for the block and closure of Ls account  including the legislation it had 
relied on to do so.
The investigator responded that the terms and conditions of the bank account allowed 
Revolut to review and close the account. He also said that some of the information provided 
by the bank was confidential, but on review he was satisfied that Revolut had acted fairly.
L wasnt happy with the response and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Mr H said 
Revolut had breached section 25 of its own terms and conditions. Section 25 relates to when 
Revolut may block access to a customers account. Section 25 says: 
The safety of your money is important to us. We might prevent you from making payments 
from your account with the API Key or your Revolut Card if we're reasonably concerned 
about its security or that it might be used fraudulently or without your permission.
We might also have to block your account or your Revolut Card to meet our legal 
obligations. 
Mr H thought there was no evidence that Revolut had to block his card or his account to 
meet its legal obligations. He thought Revolut hadnt kept L informed of the block and didnt 
tell him why they had blocked the account. He requested compensation from Revolut for the 
embarrassment he had been caused. He thought Revolut should have to cite any law or 
regulation it relied on to block the account so that L could challenge it.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has made a number of quite detailed submissions and also sought answers to his 
questions about the nature of Revoluts investigations. Ive considered all of these, but I dont 
consider its necessary to address each and every point that Mr H has made in order to meet 
my statutory duty to determine his complaint. Im required to do that with minimum formality, 
and so Ill address the issues that I consider to be the most important. I do stress however 
that Ive considered everything that Mr H and the bank have said before reaching my 
decision. 
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
information about other customers or security information. Some of the information Revolut 
has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential, so I wont be 
sharing this with Mr H.
Mr H has said he thinks Revolut are not providing accurate evidence that refers to L.  He has 
referred to Revoluts automated process and has provided links to media articles that deal 
with this point. I want to reassure Mr H that I have looked at these articles. Mr H says that 
after blocking an account through their automated process Revolut will then close the 
account either because of serious regulatory risk by the customer or to cover up mistakes 
made by their system. I appreciate that Mr H finds all this frustrating, but I havent seen 
anything to doubt the accuracy of the information provided by Revolut in this case and I can 
only comment on this specific case.
Review and blocking of the accountIll start by setting out some context for the review of Ls account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. Having looked at the evidence I am satisfied that 
this is what Revolut was doing when it reviewed and blocked Ls account. 
I know Mr H is also upset that Revolut uses an automated system as part of its business 
model. We are not the regulator of firms  so we cant tell them how to run their businesses, 
or how to design or implement their processes. Having an automated system is part of how 
Revolut choses to run its business  and we cant interfere with its commercial decisions.
Mr H has said because Revolut uses an automated system it results in accounts being 
blocked unfairly. He has said that Revolut must comply with principle 2 and 6 of the FCA 
rules. I appreciate Mr H feels strongly about this, but I can only look at the actions Revolut 
took against L, not Revoluts wider processes as this is something for the regulator to look 
into. In this case I have looked at the evidence before me and Im satisfied that Revolut 
acted fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of the account when it reviewed and 
blocked Ls account. It follows I dont think that it has breached Principle 2 and 6 of the FCA 
rules when it reviewed and blocked Ls account.
Mr H has said that he wasnt informed that the account was blocked. I can see that the 
account was blocked on the 3 January 2020 and Mr H was informed on the 8 January of the 
block and closure of the account. Section 25 of the terms say that Revolut will let the 
customer know before or as soon as possible after if their account is blocked. I appreciate 
that had Revolut told Mr H before the 3 January then he wouldnt have had his card declined 
at a clients site thus causing him unnecessary embarrassment.  
Mr H has said he would like details of the exact law and regulations that Revolut has based 
its actions on.  But Revolut arent required to give any further reasons. Moreover, Revoluts 
obligations are broad and varied, and it isnt the case that one regulation  or law only applies 
to the circumstances of L and this complaint. Mr H may wish to research firms obligations 
and responsibilities, and how they relate to his circumstances and the decision Revolut have 
taken.  But as Mr H has asked about law and regulations, he may have already researched 
the matter.  In any event our role is to see whether Revolut has made a mistake and if it has 
to put matters right. Ive reviewed Revoluts actions and Im satisfied its acted correctly and 
also in line with terms and conditions of Ls account. From what Ive seen, Im satisfied 
Revolut have acted in accordance with whats required of them. There is nothing further I 
can ask them to do.
I appreciate Mr H found this whole episode frustrating, but Revolut are entitled to carry out 
reviews of their customers accounts under regulations and the terms of the account. So, I 
cant say they have done anything wrong when they blocked and reviewed Ls account.
Closure of the Account
L was given 21 days of closure of the account on 8 January 2020. The investigator has said 
that the terms and conditions allow Revolut to close the account.  
Ive first considered whether Revolut acted fairly when it closed Ls account. Mr H has 
pointed out he is aware that Revoluts terms and conditions allow it to close an account 
without notice. 
Its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to 
provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer or require it to 
compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Ive considered whether Revolut acted fairly in closing Ls accounts. Ive looked at the terms 
and conditions of his accounts and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions outline 
that the bank can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain 
circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case Revolut closed Ls 
account without notice. For Revolut to act fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to 
apply their terms for immediate closure  and having looked at these terms and all the 
evidence Im satisfied that the bank has applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close 
the accounts as its already done. 
Reasons for the block and closure of the account
Mr H has said he wanted to know why the account was blocked. Revolut isnt required to 
give him specific reasons for blocking the account. So, I cant say Revolut has done anything 
wrong by not giving Mr H this information  as much as hed like to know.
Compensation 
Mr H has asked for compensation for the embarrassment he was caused when Ls bank 
card was declined at a clients site.  As the investigator has said L is a separate legal entity 
and therefore, Im unable to award compensation for distress that was suffered by Mr H. 
Even though I appreciate the difficult situation that Mr H was put in. 
I realise Mr H may be disappointed by my decision, but overall, based on the evidence Ive 
seen, I cant say Revolut have acted unreasonably and treated L unfairly when they blocked 
and closed its account. 
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman