DRN-2980004
The complaint
Mr H complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc refused to refund the money he lost after 
falling victim to an investment scam.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
everything again here. But, in summary, between May 2018 and November 2018 Mr H made 
a series of faster payments totalling £184,500 from his Co-op current account using 
telephone banking. Mr H thought he was making payments to invest in cryptocurrency but 
later found out hed been the victim of a scam and had actually sent his money to fraudsters.
Mr H told Co-op what had happened and asked it to refund the money. But the bank didnt 
think it was responsible for his losses. Mr H raised a complaint as he felt the bank shouldve 
warned him about investment scams and it failed to protect him from fraud.
Co-op said, in summary, that:
Mr H wasnt a first-time investor and his account showed a substantial trading history 
over several years. The payments werent unusual or suspicious based on Mr Hs 
previous account history. And it didnt think its staff ought to have challenged Mr Hs 
decisions or referred him to a financial adviser. It doesnt offer advice or investment 
services, and any investment Mr H chose to make was done so at his own risk. It 
complied with his payment requests as required by the rules and regulations. 
After Mr H first reported having fallen victim to a scam, it warned him not to make any 
more payments. But Mr H ignored this warning and sent another payment to the 
fraudsters from a different account. Its likely he wouldve done the same thing had 
warnings been given earlier. 
Mr H didnt accept Co-ops conclusions and referred a complaint to our service. But our 
investigator didnt think the bank should refund Mr Hs money. He felt that Mr H would likely 
have made the payments even if the bank had intervened sooner. Mr H remained unhappy, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr H fell victim to what seems to have been a fairly sophisticated 
investment scam. Hes lost a considerable amount of money, which has put him in a difficult 
financial position, and I appreciate why he feels so strongly that it should be returned to him. 
But having carefully considered everything, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for 
me to hold Co-op liable for his loss. Ill explain why. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And Ive taken that into account when deciding what is 
fair and reasonable in this case.
But the matter doesnt end there, Ive also taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. And I consider Co-op should, fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including money laundering, the financing of terrorism, and fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly so 
given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are 
generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases 
declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud.
So, I need to decide whether Co-op acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr H 
when he asked it to make a number of payments via its telephone banking systems, or 
whether it should have done more than it did.
The disputed payments and Mr Hs interactions with Co-ops staff
Its not in dispute that Mr H authorised the transfers himself. Because of this, as Ive already 
set out, Co-op had an obligation to follow his instructions. But, as Ive explained above. I 
consider that as a matter of good practice, the bank should also have been on the lookout 
for unusual and out of character transactions.
After the fraudsters convinced Mr H to invest, he initially sent £4,500 to them over a 6-week 
period (between mid-May and the end of June 2018) in three separate transactions. Based 
on the way Mr H tended to use his account, I dont think these transactions were particularly 
out of character or unusual enough to say that Co-op ought to have intervened and/or 
questioned Mr H further about why he was making them. 
I understand Mr H then made a much larger payment towards the same investment from the 
account his wife held with a different bank. A few months later Mr H received credits totalling 
£9,000 into his Co-op account  the fraudsters led him to believe those payments were 
returns on his investment. At the same time, he continued to be in regular contact with the 
fraudsters who were providing him with updates about how his investment was performing, 
and also gave him updated paperwork every time he made a payment. Its clear this was 
quite a sophisticated scam, and in view of the tactics used by the fraudsters to gain his trust, 
Ive no doubt Mr H truly believed he was taking positive steps with his money and putting it 
into a genuine investment, which was performing very well. 
Towards the end of September 2018, Mr H sent a further £20,000 to the investment. This 
was a far higher amount than hed sent in the past, but I note it was to the same beneficiary 
that hed used for the previous two, smaller payments. And nearly three months had passed 
since those earlier payments. With that in mind, Im not entirely persuaded that this payment 
ought to have prompted the bank to ask questions about the reason it was being made. But I 
do note they had the opportunity to do so given Mr H was placing the payment via a phone 
call. It also  seems likely the bank had some concerns about the risks posed by making such a large payment as the member of staff who took the payment had to seek managers 
approval before putting it through.
A further £2,000 credit was received from the investment into Mr Hs account about a 
fortnight later. At the end of October, Mr Hs daughter transferred £160,950 into his account 
and he called the bank the following day to transfer £160,000 to the same overseas bank 
account form which the £2,000 had originated. This was a substantially larger amount than 
had passed through Mr Hs account in the preceding months. And it seems Co-op 
appreciated this and the need to take steps to ensure Mr H wasnt falling victim to fraud 
because it asked him some questions in relation to the payment.
However, the questions Co-op asked didnt relate to the situation Mr H was facing. The bank 
hadnt asked why he was making the payment in order to tailor its questions to the situation 
in hand and then give appropriate warnings. Had it done so I see no reason why Mr H 
wouldnt have told them he was making an investment  he thought this was a genuine 
opportunity and Ive seen nothing which suggests the scammer had told him to give the bank 
a cover story if asked about the payment.
Having said that, I dont think its more likely than not Mr H wouldve changed his mind about 
making the £20,000 or £160,000 payments even if the bank had asked more questions or 
waned him about investment scams. I say this having taken the following into account:
Mr H says he was an experienced investor who seems to have traded in stocks, shares 
and commodities regularly in the past. This is also reflected in his Co-op account activity. 
He regularly paid money to, and received money, from genuine investment companies 
and/or trading platforms. He also made occasional payments to a specialist website 
which aims to provide solutions for investors of every kind. Our products and services  
whether free or subscription-based  are designed to help people take control of their 
investments. It seems likely Mr H spent quite a lot of time researching and making 
investment decisions.
Mr H says he was cold-called by the scammers, but undertook some research before 
deciding to invest. He says he called the FCA before sending any money to the 
investment. He hasnt told us why or what information he gained as a result of that call. 
But the FCA is the industry regulator and Mr H likely understood this given his previous 
investment experience and called it to make enquiries about the investment company. 
With this in mind I have found nothing which suggests there were any warnings on the 
FCAs website about the company Mr H thought he was investing with at the time he 
made any of the payments. And it was not until June 2018 (after Mr H had started 
investing) that the FCA published any generic warnings about the risks of investing in 
cryptocurrency. It doesnt seem that anything the FCA may have said to Mr H changed 
his mind about going ahead with the investment. 
Mr H thought he was investing in cryptocurrency and seems to have understood the risks 
involved with such investment, but was willing to take those risk given the potential return 
was far greater than he had been achieving with his other investments. He also says he 
was aware he was dealing with an unregulated company, based overseas but with a UK 
office. I think Mr H would have been satisfied he had done sufficient checks about the 
investment even if the bank had warned him about investment scams. But, even if Im 
wrong about that, I think if warnings from the bank had prompted any concerns Mr H 
would likely have contacted the scammer for reassurance. And its also likely the 
scammer would have been able to persuade him it was a genuine investment in much 
the same way as it persuaded him to send further money even after the bank did tell him 
it thought hed fallen victim to a scam. I talk more about that event below.Mr H says he was in regular contact with the scammers and tells us he received 
paperwork from them about the scam, but he hasnt shared this with us. In my 
experience, sophisticated scammers will often provide very convincing literature and, 
sometimes. access to online accounts from which the victim can track the performance 
of the investment. With this in mind Mr H has referred to having an online account with 
the investment company and being able to see the value of the investment at various 
points in time. Whatever literature was provided and whatever discussions took place 
clearly convinced Mr H  an experienced investor  that he was dealing with a legitimate 
company. And I think, in the circumstances, it might have been difficult for the bank to 
give any warnings which Mr H would not have ruled out and/or which wouldve stopped 
him from sending the money to the scammers. 
As Ive already said, by the time Mr H placed the £20,000 payment he had received £9k 
back from the investment and an additional £2,000 was paid into his account before he 
made the £160,000 transfer. This seems to have helped reassure Mr H that he was 
investing with a legitimate company and was receiving the returns that had been 
promised. 
Within a week of making the £160,000 overseas transfer, Mr H contacted Co-op asking if 
it could recall the payment, as he was concerned he may have fallen victim to a scam. 
This was because some money he was expecting to receive back from the investment 
hadnt arrived and hed been unable to get in touch with his usual contact at the 
investment company. The bank also concluded it was likely Mr H had fallen victim to a 
scam. It tried to educate him about this, warned him not to make any further payments 
and took steps to try and recover his money from the beneficiary banks. Soon after this, 
and before Co-op had received any responses from those banks, Mr H told the bank 
hed made contact again with the investment company and no longer believed it to be a 
scam. The bank disagreed and told Mr H it was definitely a scam, the credits hed been 
receiving may also be fraudulent, and he mustnt make any further payments towards the 
investment. It also told him that if he made another payment, or received further credits 
from this company, it would consider closing his account. Despite these warnings, the 
day after his conversation with the bank, Mr H transferred £8,500 from his Co-op account 
to the account his wife held with a different bank, and then made a further payment to 
the scammers from that same account. He said he did this because he still had a slight 
belief the investment was genuine, and he was desperate to do everything he could to 
get his money back, plus the returns he had been promised. I can understand Mr Hs 
actions, to an extent. But I also cant ignore that he disregarded a very clear and explicit 
warning from Co-op, and went on to make a further payment to the investment.  
Despite Mr Hs concerns to the contrary, I dont think the evidence indicates that Co-op 
was on notice that any of its other customers had been scammed by this company 
before Mr H made his payments. 
Recovering Mr Hs money
The Payment Service Regulations 2017 say a payment service provider, in this case Co-op, 
should notify receiving banks (based in the UK) about potential fraud immediately. Its 
unclear from the banks records exactly how soon after Mr H reported the scam it contacted 
the beneficiary banks, although it appears to be within a two-day timeframe. But, even if the 
bank had done everything it couldve sooner than it did, I have to take into account that a 
number of months had passed since Mr H had made the transfers to the UK beneficiaries. 
And its a common tactic of fraudsters to remove money from the receiving account as 
quickly as possible before the victim realises what has happened. That is, in fact, what happened with the second, third and fourth payments which all went to one account held 
with another bank. The bank that received the first payment says the same is true of that 
one. But Co-ops notes suggest it was actually able to recover £474.80 from that bank and 
subsequently paid this back to Mr Hs account. 
The regulations I mention above relate to bank transfers that happen to and from bank 
accounts based in the UK. The expectation to notify a receiving bank immediately doesnt 
apply if the receiving bank is based outside of the UK.  With payments to overseas banks 
Co-op should contact the receiving bank on a best endeavours basis and Im satisfied it did 
so in this case. Unfortunately, the overseas receiving bank advised that no funds remained 
to return to Mr H.
Overall, taking all the circumstances into account, I dont think Co-Op should be held 
responsible for Mr Hs losses. So it wouldnt be fair for me to tell it to refund his money.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman