DRN-3208549
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy Sainsburys Bank Plc failed to correctly set up a direct debit for her credit 
card account on multiple occasions.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
When Miss H first asked Sainsburys to set up her direct debit, it wasnt unreasonable 
for her to expect it to be done correctly, and for her payments to be taken by this 
method. So, when this didnt happen, I can understand why she was concerned and 
frustrated  particularly given the implications of making late payments towards credit 
card accounts.
When Sainsburys were told about the problem with the direct debit, I would have 
expected them to resolve the matter as quickly as possible. And to do that, Id expect 
them to set up the direct debit, waive any late payment fees, and ensure Miss Hs 
credit file didnt have any negative markers. I was glad to see they did this, but its 
disappointing that Miss H faced this problem on multiple occasions. Because of 
Sainsburys mistake, she continued to be inconvenienced and worried about her 
financial affairs.
The evidence Ive seen suggests the problem with the direct debit was resolved in 
time for her September 2021 payment. Ive also noted that Miss H hasnt had to pay 
any late payment fees, and her credit report has been amended to ensure no late 
payment markers are on it. Given this problem was ongoing from February 2021, its 
only fair Miss H is compensated for the distress and inconvenience she experienced 
due to Sainsburys mistake. While the problem wasnt resolved immediately, I am 
persuaded Sainsburys took Miss Hs complaint seriously, and attempted to do the 
right thing to resolve the problem each time it happened. Its for that reason, Im 
satisfied their total award of £180 is fair in the circumstances  and its in line with 
what I would have awarded had Sainsburys not already acknowledged their mistake.
For these reasons, although I appreciate Miss Hs frustration, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Hs complaint about Sainsburys Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman