DRN-2041169
The complaint
Mr F has complained, via a representative, that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him fee-
paying Gold and Premier packaged accounts.
Mr F says the Gold account was mis-sold so the member of staff selling it could hit a sales 
target. He says he had no need for travel insurance as he had a fear of flying. And Mr F says 
the Premier account exceeded his needs as he only needed breakdown cover and mobile 
phone insurance. He says he didnt need any of the other benefits it provided.
Mr F has also said that both accounts were recommended to him to increase the interest 
free overdraft facility.
What happened
Mr Fs account history is as follows:
Opened as a fee-free account  June 2003
Upgraded to a fee-paying Select account  January 2006
Upgraded to a fee-paying Gold account  September 2006
Upgraded to a fee-paying Premier account  July 2008
Account switched to another bank  May 2013
Account closed  August 2018
Mr F has not complained about the sale of the Select account, as he says it provided the 
benefits he needed at the time.
Lloyds considered the complaint and concluded that the Gold account had not been mis-
sold. But it did agree the Premier had been mis-sold. Lloyds concluded that the Platinum 
account wouldve been more appropriate for Mr F in the circumstances. 
To put matters right, Lloyds put Mr F into the position he wouldve been in had the Platinum 
account, rather than Premier, been sold to him. It did this by refunding him the difference in 
cost between the two accounts, less the overdraft interest savings Mr F received as a result 
of having the Premier account (compared to what he wouldve paid had he held the Platinum 
account instead). And it paid Mr F 8% simple interest on the account fees. This was 
calculated from the date each account fee was applied to his account to the date of 
settlement, less tax. Mr Fs representative did not accept Lloydss responses to the 
complaint, so referred the complaint to our service. 
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and he concluded that the Gold account had 
not been mis-sold. And he thought that what Lloyds had offered to do to put matters right 
regarding the Premier account was reasonable in the circumstances. So he didnt think that 
Lloyds had to do anything more to put matters right.
Mr Fs representative disagreed with the adjudicators findings and asked for the matter to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
I note that, in his response to the adjudicators assessment, Mr Fs representative has also 
asked that all overdraft charges be refunded. But if its the case Mr F now believes the 
overdraft charges to have been unfairly applied to his account, this will need to be 
considered as a separate complaint to this one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website. And I 
have used that to help me decide this case. I think it may also help to explain that where 
evidence is lacking and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I have to decide what I think 
was most likely to have happened, based on everything that is available.
Mr F says that the only reason the accounts were sold to him, was so that someone at 
Lloyds could hit a sales target. His representative has referred to a report by the financial 
regulator and says this is evidence that the packaged accounts were mis-sold. Im aware of 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys review into Packaged Bank Accounts and the rules it 
implemented following its review. But I should point out that Im required to consider the 
evidence that has been presented and weigh up whether Lloyds did something wrong or 
acted unfairly in the specific circumstances of this complaint.
To do that, Ive started off by considering whether Mr F was given a fair choice. 
I can see that Mr F initially opened a fee-free account with Lloyds. And he says that he freely 
chose to upgrade his account to a Select account, as he wanted the benefits the account 
provided. So he was clearly aware that fee-free accounts existed. And Mr F has not said 
anything that suggests he thought he had to have a packaged account.  So overall, Im 
satisfied that Mr F agreed to upgrade his account knowing the packages were optional and 
that he didnt have to agree to them if he didnt want them.
Gold account
Based on what Ive seen, I think that the account was recommended to Mr F. This means 
Lloyds had to make sure it was right for him.
Mr F says one of the reasons the account was recommended to him, was because itd 
increase the portion of the overdraft that was interest free.  At the time, one of the benefits of 
the Gold account was an interest-free overdraft facility, on the first £100 of any arranged 
overdraft. At the time the Select account only offered a £50 interest free overdraft benefit. 
Therefore, it looks like the Gold account did provide him with a better overdraft benefit than 
he had with the Select account.
Mr F has also said that he thought he had to upgrade his account to secure an increased 
overdraft limit. But I can see that Mr F already had a £200 overdraft limit before he agreed to 
the Gold account. And his overdraft limit did not increase around the time hed been sold the 
Gold account. As such, given the circumstances, I think its more likely Mr F agreed to the 
Gold account because it included a bigger interest free limit, rather than because he was 
misled into thinking he had to have a more expensive account, to increase his limit.
In addition to his comments about the overdraft, Mr F also says the account was mis-sold as 
he had no need for travel insurance. Conversely, Lloyds has provided evidence to show that 
Mr F had called the bank on 26 September 2006. This note said:Upgrade from Select to gold for the travel insurance. Both ypsor and kyc updated. Mr [F] will 
be popping into his local branch to pick up a gold membership pack for the travel policy as 
he is travelling today.
Mr F says he had no need for travel insurance as he was afraid to fly, and says this note has 
been fabricated. 
In our questionnaire, Mr F said he never travels. But his representative has since explained 
that he did fly to Europe in 2007 and he occasionally went on trips to Europe. The 
representative says, that apart from the trip in 2007, he drove to Europe on those occasions. 
As such, it seems that Mr F did travel abroad, albeit only very occasionally. Therefore I cant 
rule out the possibility that Mr F did have a need for travel insurance at the time the Gold 
account was sold to him. For example, I note that the call note was based on Mr F calling 
Lloyds, not the other way round, suggesting he called to request travel insurance. And 
although Mr Fs representative says the note was fabricated, Ive not seen enough evidence 
for me to conclude that was more likely than not the case. 
Mr Fs representative also says they checked with the travel telephone line. But say it had no 
record of Mr F contacting them in the whole time he held packaged accounts with Lloyds. 
However, it is my understanding that when calling the travel telephone line, Mr F wouldve 
been put through to the travel insurer - not Lloyds. So I dont think the lack of contact with 
the insurer is evidence that Mr F had not spoken to Lloyds about travelling in September 
2006.
Mr Fs representative has located a letter that had been sent to Mr F around the time the Mr 
Fs account had been changed to a Gold account. He says this letter confirms the account 
had been changed and mentions the overdraft too, but says it does not mention travel 
insurance. The representative says this verifies Mr Fs version of events. But I dont think it 
does. The letter sent to Mr F was, as I understand it, a standard letter sent to confirm the 
application had gone through and that the Gold account overdraft benefit had been applied 
to the account. Just because it did not mention travel insurance  or any other feature of the 
account - does not mean that travel insurance was not discussed when the account was sold 
to Mr F.  
Therefore, based on everything I have seen, it seems that Mr F did have a need for the 
breakdown cover and mobile phone insurance (that also came with his existing account). 
And there is evidence to suggest Mr F, at least at the time of sale, did have a need for travel 
insurance. And it seems he was able to have benefited from having a larger portion of his 
overdraft being interest free too. So, in the circumstances, I cant reasonably say that 
Lloydss recommendation was unsuitable. On the contrary, it seems that Mr F did have a 
need for a number of the insurance benefits provided by the Gold account at the time.
As well as making sure that the account was a good fit for Mr F, Lloyds also had to give him 
important information about the account, so that he understood what he was agreeing to. I 
accept its possible that Lloyds may not have given Mr F all of the important information 
about the account during the telephone cal. After all, the telephone note says he will attend 
branch to obtain a copy of the membership pack. But looking at Mr Fs circumstances, Ive 
not seen anything that makes me think he wouldve been put off from agreeing to it, had he 
been given even more information about the account.    I appreciate that Mr F may not have needed all of the benefits that the account came with. 
But, as the account was sold as a package, he could not pick and choose what it came with. 
Furthermore, if it was the case that Mr F only needed the added benefits for a short period of 
time, Ive seen nothing that wouldve prevented him from downgrading back to the Select 
account, if he wanted to do so. So, whilst he may now feel that the account has been poor 
value for money, this does not mean that the account was necessarily mis-sold.
As such, given everything I have seen, I dont think the Gold account was mis-sold.
Premier account
As Lloyds has already agreed it was mis-sold, I have not assessed what happened during 
the sale in any particular detail. But I have considered whether Lloyds offer to put matters 
right was reasonable in the circumstances, or whether Lloyds should go further with its 
redress.
I understand the basis for Lloydss offer was that, although the Premier account shouldnt 
have been sold, had things gone as they shouldve, it believes the Platinum account 
wouldve been recommended to Mr F as a more suitable account.
Looking at the Platinum account in July 2008, it cost £17 a month, and provided Worldwide 
travel insurance, enhanced (compared to the Gold account) levels of breakdown cover, 
Mobile phone insurance, as well as a £250 interest free overdraft benefit.
Mr F has explained he had no need for the home emergency cover that the Premier account 
provided. And this was not a feature of the Platinum account. But it seems one feature that 
Mr F has always needed is breakdown cover. And the Platinum account provided enhanced 
levels of breakdown cover compared to what the Gold account offered. 
I can see that Mr F did rely on the breakdown cover multiple times during the time he held 
the Premier account - including the home start feature, which was an element of cover that 
was available on the Platinum account, but not the Gold account. And I note that the 
documents from when the Premier account was sold to Mr F show one of the reasons he 
agreed to it, was because of the better levels of breakdown cover it provided.
Again, I understand that there were features of the account that Mr F may not have needed. 
But as outlined above, the selection of benefits could not be changed to better suit Mr Fs 
needs. 
So overall, I think what Lloyds has already offered to do to put matters right is not unfair. I 
think its not unreasonable to say there was a strong likelihood that Mr F wouldve agreed to 
the cheaper Platinum account, had it also been presented as an option available to him 
alongside the Premier account. I say this bearing in mind that I think Mr F agreed to these 
accounts knowing they were optional and that free and cheaper accounts existed. 
Finally, I note that Mr Fs representative has asked our service to instruct Lloyds to provide 
Mr F with an account that better meets his needs. I understand Mr F wants an account that 
only provides the specific insurance features that he now requires. 
However, that is not something I am able to do. Lloyds can only reasonably be expected to 
provide Mr F with products that currently exist within its product range. So if its the case that 
the products Lloyds currently offer do not meet Mr Fs needs, he will need to look elsewhere 
to find the right financial products that do.
My final decisionBecause of the reasons given above, I dont think the Gold account was mis-sold. And I think 
what Lloyds Bank Plc has already done to put matters right concerning the sale of the 
Premier account is reasonable. I therefore dont require Lloyds Bank Plc to do anything 
further in relation to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman