DRN-3437846
The complaint
Mr H complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited, trading as IWeb Share Dealing, (IWEB) 
gave poor service when receiving a transfer of his shareholdings from another provider.
What happened
Mr H held shareholdings with another provider (the provider) and wished to transfer them 
to IWEB. Forms were signed for this and sent to IWEB at the end of July 2020. 
In March 2021 Mr H came to us. He told us part of the transfer completed in January 2021 
but part still had paperwork outstanding after almost eight months.
Mr H said IWEB and the provider were blaming each other for the delays. He said he was 
not seeking redress for loss of investment opportunity because it wouldnt be easy to detail 
what he might have done, or when, and also to show this was not done with hindsight. But 
he said he wanted compensation for his time and for distress caused.
Mr H has said he thought more blame probably lay with the provider, as IWEB had been 
more responsive to his own enquiries than the provider had.
IWEBs final response letter in March 2021 said all the delays were caused by the provider 
and IWEB had agreed with the provider a specific process for dealing with its work due to 
the providers inability to cope. IWEB said it had made no errors.
In June 2021 we asked IWEB to send us the information we would need to consider this 
matter. We didnt receive a reply. We requested a reply a number of times, including in 
December 2021 but received no reply.
In February 2022 our investigator concluded that IWEB was not responsible for the delays. 
But our investigator thought IWEB had not done enough to clarify concerns Mr H had about 
the status of one investment he had  shares in a company I will call company B - which 
still wasnt showing on this IWEB account. In view of this our investigator thought IWEB 
should pay Mr H £100 to compensate him for trouble and upset resulting from IWEBs poor 
service. Our investigator had separately considered Mr Hs complaint about the provider.
IWEB didnt respond to the investigators findings. Mr H raised no objection to them but 
remained concerned that he still didnt have access to the company B shareholding with 
IWEB. As IWEB didnt respond to the investigators findings, the present complaint couldnt 
be resolved informally. So it has been passed to me to decide. 
Since our investigators opinion was issued, Mr H has contacted us to tell us about 
decreases in company Bs share price. He has also told us he spoke to IWEB the day after 
our investigator had discussed his findings with him. He says IWEB told him then the shares 
will be tradable once released from lock up around May time  but didnt explain why. 
Those more recent exchanges dont form part of my considerations here. If Mr H has further 
issues to raise related to these later events, he would need to raise them separately  and 
with IWEB in the first instance.
That said, Id mention in passing that Mr Hs company B shareholding was paid to him by a 
separate company (company A) as an in-specie dividend. Company B was admitted to 
trading on a stock exchange on 28 May 2021. Company As website announced in specie 
dividend shares were to be held in trust for shareholders by a nominee for a lock-in period 
of 365 days after company Bs admission to trading on a stock exchange. Company Bs 
website also refers to restrictions on the transfer of the companys shares if received in 
specie from company A  and says these restrictions expire on 28 May 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for the same reasons as those given by our 
investigator.
In the absence of anything from IWEB to suggest it did enough to explain the situation 
regarding the company B shareholding not appearing on Mr Hs account, I dont think IWEB 
did enough to explain the situation to Mr H. I think £100 is fair compensation for the trouble 
and upset this failing caused him. I say this based on the service Mr H experienced up to the 
point our investigators view was issued. Ive not considered later events.
Putting things right
Halifax Share Dealing Limited should pay Mr H £100 for the trouble and upset caused to him 
by the shortcomings Ive outlined above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint.
Halifax Share Dealing Limited should pay Mr H redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman