DRN-3390793
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) declined a claim made on his travel 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B travelled abroad in October 2019. 
He had the benefit of a travel insurance policy underwritten by IPA (the policy). He 
contacted IPA about making a claim for medical treatment he needed whilst abroad in 2021.
IPA declined to assist on the basis that the trip limit under the policy had been exceeded. Mr 
B had been abroad for over a year when contacting IPA for assistance. 
Unhappy, Mr B complained to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Mr B didnt agree so his complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh and 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
IPA has an obligation to handle claims fairly and promptly. And it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim. 
The policy says (under the section headed important information):
The duration of any trip may not exceed 90 consecutive days. Please note if your 
trip is longer than the maximum duration, benefits will not apply to any part of that 
trip. Trips must begin and end in the country of residence. Trips using one way or 
one way open tickets are not covered unless the outbound and inbound travel tickets 
have been purchased before the trip begins
Trip is defined as:
any holiday, or journey for pleasure made by you, within the territorial limits, which 
begins and ends in your country of residence, during the period of cover. Trips using 
one way or one way open tickets are not covered unless the outbound and inbound 
travel tickets have been purchased before the trip begins
IPA declined the claim on the basis that Mr B required medical treatment in 2021. Hed 
travelled from the UK in October 2019. Mr B didnt travel back to the UK in January 2020, so 
his trip exceeded the maximum duration under the policy.
I can see that Mr B had booked a round trip between the country he was staying in abroad 
and another country, for a week commencing 15 January 2020. But he didnt return back to 
the UK within 90 days of departing in October 2019.
So, I dont think IPA has unfairly concluded that the cost of the medical treatment he wanted 
to claim for was covered under the policy as the trip exceeded 90 consecutive days and he 
needed medical treatment over a year after the end of that 90 day period.
Mr B has said that the risk of travelling back to the UK in January 2020 was very high due to 
the Covid-19 pandemic. However, it was only in March 2020 that international travel became 
difficult. Up until then, although people had been diagnosed with Covid-19 across the world, 
the global impact was unknown (although there had been restrictions involving some 
countries). The World Health Organisation didnt declare Covid-19 as a pandemic until 11 
March 2020 and the Foreign Commonwealth Office didnt advise against all but essential 
international travel  including to the country Mr B was staying in - until several days later. 
So, Im not persuaded that Mr B was prevented from returning to the UK in January 2020 
(and within 90 days of starting his trip) because of Covid-19. And as stated above hed 
booked a weeks round trip to another country for mid-January 2020 from the country he was 
staying in. So, it looks like his intention was to remain abroad after the expiry of the 90 days 
duration period.  
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman