DRN-2883989
The complaint
Mrs J is unhappy with how Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) dealt with a claim under the 
home assistance part of her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs J had a home insurance policy, arranged and administered by an intermediary. She said 
shed had this policy for many years, though it was a policy she renewed each year. The 
policy provided buildings, contents, and home assistance (or home emergency) cover. The 
home assistance cover was underwritten by Amtrust, while the building and contents cover 
was underwritten by another separate insurer. 
In August 2020 Mrs J claimed under her policy for a leaking kitchen ceiling, which was 
underneath her bathroom. Amtrust sent an engineer to inspect, but Mrs J was unhappy they 
hadnt properly investigated the cause of the leak or fixed it. So she complained to Amtrust.  
The final complaint response sent on Amtrusts behalf said its engineer thought the leak was 
caused by Mrs Js bath seals leaking when the shower was used, and advised Mrs J to 
replace the bath seals.  And that when Mrs J later said the leak was still there and she hadnt 
replaced the seals, Amtrust advised her it couldnt provide further cover and Mrs J agreed to 
replace the bath seals privately. The final response said Amtrust didnt need to do anything 
further as its engineers opinion was that the bath seals caused the leak. And that home 
assistance cover was for alleviating the initial emergency, not for fixing issues caused by 
wear and tear that worsened over time.  
Unhappy with this, Mrs J brought her complaint to our service. She said her ceiling was 
leaking and Amtrust refused to find the cause. And shed not received the help she should 
have under her policy. Mrs J said shed chosen not to renew the policy because of this, but 
in later calls with our service she suggested her policy was cancelled after she complained.
After looking into things, our investigator said Amtrust fairly concluded the leak was caused 
by worn seals around the bath and this wasnt covered under the home assistance part of 
Mrs Js policy.  And that if Mrs J was unhappy about her policy ending, then shed need to 
make a separate complaint about that. 
Mrs J asked for her complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. She said the leak was still 
there. And that shed told the insurer responsible for her buildings and contents cover she 
was unhappy about the leak but it said shed need to pay a £350 policy excess. Mrs J said 
shed recently complained to that insurer and was told her policy had been cancelled. 
As Mrs J asked, her complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly like to say how sorry I am to hear of the health and other difficulties Mrs J has told 
our service about. I appreciate these must have caused her a great deal of distress and 
worry over the years. Whilst I dont wish to add to Mrs Js upset, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
The crux of Mrs Js complaint is that Amtrust hasnt properly investigated or fixed the kitchen 
ceiling leak. I should be clear here that Mrs Js home assistance cover doesnt protect her for 
every issue that might occur in her home. Instead, its purpose is to provide cover for a quick 
response in unforeseen home emergencies in the specific circumstances set out in the 
policy terms and conditions. The policys building and contents cover is underwritten by 
another separate insurer, and so Amtrust isnt responsible for any complaint Mrs J may have 
about that cover.  
I can see Mrs Js policy says that in a home assistance claim, it will decide the best course 
of action to limit loss or repair the damage and may instruct one of its contractors. Based on 
Mrs Js testimony and the evidence provided by Amtrust, Im satisfied Amtrust did this - its 
engineer inspected the ceiling leak and found what they thought to be its cause, which was 
water coming through the seals around Mrs Js bath when her shower was in use. And they 
advised Mrs J to replace her bath seals. Mrs J hasnt provided any evidence to show that the 
opinion of Amtrusts engineer was incorrect. 
The final response to Mrs Js complaint suggested the leak was caused by wear and tear of 
the bath seals. To support this, Amtrust has provided a copy of its engineers attendance 
certificate. It says the leak is coming from the bath area, the pipes are not leaking but the 
bath seals are leaking when the shower is on. And it includes photos showing what seems to 
be previous tape repairs to the bath seals as well as water staining and dampness on the 
wall below the taped bath seals. Based on this, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Amtrust to 
conclude the leak was caused by wear and tear of Mrs Js baths seals. And I can see the 
policy says it doesnt cover the replacement of parts that suffer damage or the gradual 
process of wear over time. So I think it was fair for Amtrust to conclude the home assistance 
part of Mrs Js policy didnt cover these repairs and shed need to get the bath seals 
replaced. So I dont think Amtrust needs to do anything more here.
If Mrs J believes she has a claim under her policys buildings or contents cover for this leak 
or the damage it caused then she would need to contact the insurer who underwrites that 
part of her policy, which is a separate business to Amtrust. If shes unhappy with what that 
insurer says, she can raise a complaint with it, which it appears Mrs J has already done. If 
Mrs J is unhappy with its final response to her complaint, then she can refer that new 
complaint to our service for an impartial investigation. And Mrs J can take similar action if 
she believes her home insurance policy has been cancelled unfairly. 
I realise this isnt the answer Mrs J hoped for and I can appreciate why she might herself find 
it difficult to arrange for the bath seals to be replaced or to deal with the other businesses 
regarding the other issues shes told us about. Mrs J might therefore find it helpful to contact 
a support service such as Citizens Advice.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman