DRN-1851931
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the customer service he received from Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) 
during calls he made to it in January and February 2020.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I have listened to the calls Mr T had with Lloyds and I havent heard any advisors 
being rude or unhelpful to him.
 
The purpose of some of the calls was unclear and the advisors answering the 
telephone asked questions to try to understand how they could help Mr T. And while I 
can appreciate that it must have been frustrating for Mr T to repeat himself to several 
members of staff, I think the questions he was asked were reasonable.
 
In one telephone call, the adviser terminated the call. During this telephone call she 
was asking specific questions to try to understand a technical issue Mr T was having. 
Mr T became frustrated at this as he had already given a general overview of the 
problem and began to say she was being rude. I dont think the adviser was being 
rude during this call, rather that she was trying to get specific details so she could 
ensure the problem was resolved. And I dont think she acted unreasonably in 
terminating this call when it became unproductive and was clearly causing both 
parties distress.
 
In another telephone call, Mr T was put on hold while the advisor tried to transfer him 
to another department. He was on hold for less than two minutes and the adviser 
explained that the other department wasnt open for the day. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for her to not know the opening times of other departments at Lloyds 
as she didnt work in that area.
 
Mr T doesnt believe Lloyds has taken his mental health into consideration, but I dont 
believe thats the case. Lloyds advisers are entitled to take steps to protect 
themselves from unreasonable or inappropriate behaviour and that is what I believe 
they have done during these calls.
 For these reasons, although I understand Mr Ts frustrations, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman