DRN-2677839
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) put late
payment markers on her credit file.
What happened
 Mrs B had a Barclaycard. The account was closed for new purchases and she was paying
£15 each month. In December 2016, she made two payments of £15. In January 2017, she
didnt make a payment. So, she was one month in arrears. In February, March and April
2017, £15 was paid. But the May 2017 payment was missed. So, she was then two months
in arrears. This was put right in August 2017 when the arrears were cleared. Barclaycard
advised credit reference agencies about the late payments.
Mrs B complained that she had made the January 2017 payment in December 2016. She
had paid in advance. The credit file was therefore wrong, and the markers should be
removed. She hadnt been warned about the late payments or that her credit file could be
affected. Also, the entries on her credit file varied between the credit reference agencies.
And her account was showing as active even though it was closed. She was now having
difficulty getting a mortgage.
Barclaycard said Mrs B didnt make the minimum repayments between February 2017 and
August 2017. So, the late payments were correctly reported to the credit reference agencies.
They had sent her several letters to advise her about the situation and offered to change the
statement date. She was asked to get in touch if they could help. They agreed that the
account was closed in 2009 and the balance repaid in 2019. They apologised that they
hadnt updated Mrs Bs credit file for that fact and paid £25 compensation.
Mrs B brought her complaint to the service in February 2020. Our investigator looked at what
had happened. He could see that two payments in December 2016 were made. And no
payments were made in January 2017 and May 2017  so there were arrears throughout
that time. Barclaycard told him that the statement period ran from the date of the statement
to the day after the payment due date. This wasnt in its terms and conditions. But he didnt
think that even if it was, it wouldnt have made a difference as Mrs B said she paid the
amount on about the same day each month. The payment due date can change depending
on weekends and bank holidays.
The terms and conditions said that late payment fees could be charged. And missed
payments could be reported to credit reference agencies. Statements were sent to Mrs B
which showed that she was behind. Letters were sent to let her know about the missed
payments and the effect on her credit rating. Barclaycard had apologised that the account
was still showing as open at credit reference agencies. But that wouldnt have affected Mrs B
significantly. So, the compensation of £25 for this was right.
Mrs B disagreed and asked that her complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory (as some of it is here) I
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is  whats more likely than not
to have happened in all of the circumstances here, based on the available evidence.
I can see Mrs Bs frustration  she was trying to mend her credit history and was paying off
Barclaycard at £15 per month. She was used to paying on or around the same time each
month. In December 2016, she paid £15 and then on 24 January 2017, she also paid £15,
thinking it would be the payment for the January bill. But it was credited to the account on 24
January and was included in Decembers payments. So, no payment was made in January
and she went into arrears. This situation got worse when she missed a payment in May 2017
(which is not in dispute). So, she was behind with her payments until August when she
caught up.
Mrs B says there was only one missed payment  in May 2017. The January 2017 payment
wasnt missed  it was paid early, in December 2016.
I have seen that Mrs Bs credit file was marked with payments being one month late between
February and April 2017, and then two months late between May and July 2017.
The issue here is that Barclaycard say theyve done nothing wrong they followed their
processes and terms and conditions. And I agree thats true  but in the circumstances of
Mrs Bs complaint, sometimes that doesnt always lead to a fair outcome. And Mrs B says
she paid early  it was a genuine mistake, as she was caught by the statement cycle date.
Barclaycards terms and conditions dont explain how statement cycle dates will work. They
simply say that monthly statements will be issued and will show the amount due and by
when. They also say that payments will be applied to any prior arrears before being applied
to the current payments due. So, they dont really help here.
Ive seen the December 2016 statement. It says: minimum payment due £13.71 and
payment due date 23 Jan 2017. Mrs B paid £15 on 23 December 2016 and then £15 on 24
January 2017. I can see why she thought that the £15 paid on 24 January 2017 would have
been included in the next statement cycle and it would therefore have been her January
2017 payment. Thats because the payment due date on the December 2016 statement was
shown as 23 January 2017  and she paid one day later than that.
But, on the other hand  Barclays told Mrs B that she was behind after what happened. The
statements from February 2017 showed she was in arrears because of the missed payment
in January. The statements between then and May 2017 showed she was one month in
arrears. After she missed a payment in May, the June and July 2017 statements advised her
she was two months in arrears. The statements also advised her that the terms of her 
agreement were broken, and legal action was possible. Late fees were applied in every
month also. She was sent five letters telling her she was late with her payments. So, Mrs B
shouldve been aware of her situation. And she didnt take any action. So  the decision Im
coming to has to reflect that.
So, we have a situation here where Barclaycard have followed their normal processes. But
Mrs B says she paid the January 2017 instalment thinking it would be included on that
months statement in good faith. So, I can see whats happened.
This is a finely balanced case, with valid arguments on both sides. Mrs B has consistently
argued her case. And while Barclaycard has followed their processes here, strictly following
a procedure or process can lead to an unfair outcome for a customer in the individual
circumstances of their situation. I think thats whats happened here.Im satisfied that Mrs B did make the payment on 24 January 2017 as the instalment for the
January 2017 statement. I realise that, technically, Barclaycard doesnt consider that she did
 but I think its unfair that her credit file is impacted by this situation in the circumstances
here. So, I think its fair to ask Barclaycard to change her credit file to delete the one-month
late markers for February, March, and April 2017  as they are directly linked to that 
payment. But taking into account Barclaycards arguments - the markers for May, June and
July 2017 should now be shown as one month late, as they are accurate reflections of the 
conduct of the account.
My provisional decision was to uphold this complaint. Nd - Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as
Barclaycard should change Mrs Bs credit file to delete the one-month late markers for
February, March, and April 2017. The markers for May, June and July 2017 should be
shown as one month late.
Both Mrs B and Barclays accepted my findings. 
So I now need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mrs B and Barclays have accepted my findings, I wont be departing from what I 
said in my provisional decision for the reasons I gave in it. So, my final decision is that 
Barclays should do what Ive already suggested here.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard should change Mrs Bs credit file to delete the 
one-month late markers for February, March, and April 2017. The markers for May, June 
and July 2017 should be shown as one month late.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman