DRN-4404321
The complaint
Mr W complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) passed his 
account to a collections agency and registered a default on his credit file.
What happened
Mr W opened an account with AESEL in May 2021. The account he opened was a charge 
card which meant that the full statement balance was payable each month.
Mr W experienced a period of ill health which led to excessive spending on the account. The 
account fell into arrears in August 2021 when Mr Ws direct debit was returned unpaid.
AESEL tried to contact Mr W in August and September but didnt receive a response. In 
November 2021 the account was defaulted and passed to a collection agency. AESEL write 
to Mr W advising him of this.
The collection agency set up a repayment plan with Mr W for £206 per month. Mr W made 
payments from December 2021 until April 2022, but no payments were received after this.
AESEL wrote to Mr W in July 2022 advising him that the account was going to be passed to 
another collection agency.
Mr W complained to AESEL. He was unhappy that his account had been transferred to a 
second collection agency and felt that AESEL hadnt followed Financial Conduct Authority 
guidelines on dealing with vulnerable customers. 
AESEL didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had reassigned the account to the second 
collection agency because no payment had been received from Mr W for the previous 81 
days.
Mr W was unhappy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said they hadnt seen any evidence to 
suggest that AESEL was aware of Mr Ws vulnerabilities until September 2022, and the 
events which Mr W had complained about happened prior to this. The investigator also said 
he didnt think AESEL had acted unfairly by transferring the account to a collections agency.
Mr W didnt agree. He said hed set up a debt management plan and that despite breathing 
space having been put in place, AESEL had instructed another collection agency in addition 
to the two existing ones. Mr W said that AESEL had accepted the offer of payment under the 
debt management plan and had no need to instruct a third collection agency. He felt that 
AESELs actions werent in accordance with the FCA guidance on dealing with vulnerable 
customers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws complaint to AESEL was about the transfer of his account to two collections 
agencies and his concerns that AESEL had failed to follow FCA guidance when dealing with 
a vulnerable customer.
I think its important to say what Mr Ws original complaint was about, because this was the 
complaint which AESEL investigated and in relation to which AESELs final response was 
issued.
Mr W has since raised some further complaint points in correspondence with this service in 
relation to the action taken by AESEL during breathing space. I understand that Mr W feels 
strongly about this. However, these complaint points didnt form part of Mr Ws original 
complaint and AESEL hasnt yet had the opportunity to investigate these. So, Ill only be 
addressing the points raised in Mr Ws original complaint in this decision. If Mr W wants to 
pursue a complaint about something that AESEL did or didnt do during breathing space, he 
will need to raise this as a new complaint with AESEL first.
Ive reviewed the available information about Mr Ws account. The account fell into arrears in 
August 2021. I can see from the system notes that AESEL tried to contact Mr W multiple 
times by telephone in August and September 2021 but didnt receive a response. I can also 
see that AESEL sent notices to Mr W at this time, advising him that the account was overdue 
and that charges were incurred.
AESEL has said that that if Mr W had responded to its attempts to contact him, it mightve 
been able to set up a payment plan much sooner. However, because of the lack of response 
from Mr W, the account was defaulted and passed to a collection agency.
I understand that Mr W doesnt think that the account shouldve been passed to a collection 
agency. However, because the account was more than three months overdue, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for AESEL to pass the account to a collections agency. Im satisfied that 
AESEL had made reasonable attempts to contact Mr W before it defaulted the account and 
passed it to collections.
Mr W has said that AESEL was aware that he was a vulnerable customer and that it failed to 
follow relevant FCA guidance in this respect. However, Im not persuaded that AESEL was 
aware of Mr Ws circumstances in 2021. Based on what Ive seen, AESEL wasnt made 
aware of Mr Ws vulnerabilities until September 2022.
Even if AESEL had been aware of Mr Ws vulnerabilities in 2021, I dont think AESEL acted 
unreasonably by transferring the account to a collections agency. I say this because the 
collections agency to which the account was transferred in November 2021, and with whom 
Mr W set up the repayment plan at £206 per month, was a collections agency who AESEL 
use for accounts which are part of a financial hardship programme and who are trained to 
assist vulnerable customers.
I appreciate that Mr W wasnt happy when his account was transferred to a second 
collections agency. I can see that this happened when Mr W stopped making payments of 
£206 under the repayment plan hed agreed with the first collections agency. Given that Mr 
Ws payments had stopped, I dont think it was unreasonable for AESEL to pass the account 
to a different collections agency. Further, and as the investigator explained, this service cant 
tell a business to change its collections process. So, Im unable to say that AESEL was 
wrong to use more than one collections agency.
I appreciate that the transfer of the account to a collections agency has caused Mr W distress. However, having looked at the history of the account and taking into consideration 
AESELs attempts to contact Mr W, Im unable to say that AESEL acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when it defaulted the account and transferred the account to a collections 
agency.
For the reasons Ive given, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman