DRN-1273057
The complaint
This is a complaint that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold Mr T payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2000.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
The sale of the PPI took place about 20 years ago and, not surprisingly, none of the original 
documents from the time are now available. Also I wouldnt expect someone to recall in 
detail everything that happened so long ago, so it can be difficult to know whether I can rely 
fully on everything they remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most likely to have happened, based on what evidence 
there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest outcome can be difficult.
Mr T has said Nationwide stated the PPI was mandatory. If it did say that, it would have 
been wrong, because it wasnt. However it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened 
unless there was reasonable supporting evidence of it. Where someone has said another 
person or organisation has done something wrong, fairness requires that the person making 
the allegation should present evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to 
require someone to prove they didnt do something, especially when it was such a long time 
ago. I realise this puts Mr T in a difficult position in proving what he sincerely believes to be 
true. 
Also, from what we know of Nationwides processes at the time, the PPI is likely to have 
been presented as a choice in the documents at the time  though I realise this isnt the 
same as what the Nationwide representative may have said at the time.
But I think its more likely than not that the PPI was offered as a choice at least in the 
documents, even if it was also presented at least as a very good idea to take. And, in any case, without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without Mr Ts informed 
consent. 
From what we know of Nationwides processes at this time, I dont think it recommended the 
PPI, in the sense of saying it was particularly suited to Mr Ts individual needs. This means it 
didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his circumstances. It would have been for Mr T to decide 
whether it was suitable.  But even if it had made a recommendation, I think it would probably 
have been an appropriate one in his circumstances at the time. Finding yourself unable to 
pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at the 
same time as Mr T received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have 
paid unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the 
time when he would need to fall back on any savings or other means he may have had for 
paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put Mr T in a more secure 
position, if hed eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. And Ive 
not been told anything to suggest he couldnt afford the PPI when he took it out.
Its hard to know how well Nationwide explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I 
dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have affected 
whether Mr T took the PPI. I say this because, in his circumstances, its unlikely this would 
have made the PPI seem less useful.
Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr T would have been affected by any of these. And hed be paying for it monthly, 
so he could cancel it at any time without further cost if his situation changed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman