DRN-4092704
The complaint
Mrs and Mr Hs complaint is about a claim Mr H made on their Aviva Insurance Limited legal 
expenses insurance policy.
Whilst the complaint is brought by Mrs and Mr H as joint policyholders, Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by Mr H for ease of reference.
In this decision, all references to Aviva include their claims handlers.
What happened
Mr H made a claim on his Aviva Insurance Limited legal expenses insurance policy for cover 
to help him deal with matters arising out of an investigation by his professional body. 
The history of the claim is well known to both parties, so I dont intend to repeat it here. The 
matters this Service is considering in this complaint relate to whether Aviva were entitled to 
decline Mr Hs costs associated with negotiating a settlement offered by his professional 
body together with the cost of a medical report and if Aviva should cover his legal fees in 
relation to the claim hes made more generally.
Our investigator considered Mr Hs complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. She 
said that Aviva was entitled to turn down cover for pursuing a claim against Mr Hs 
professional body based on the opinion of a Barrister who said it didnt enjoy reasonable 
prospects of success. She also said whilst the costs associated with negotiating a settlement 
were generally covered under the policy, those costs didnt extend to funding an experts 
report.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why. When reaching 
my conclusions, I can assure Mr H Ive considered all his submissions as well as the 
information both parties have provided to this Service. Whilst I dont intend to address all of 
those individually that doesnt mean I havent taken account of them. Rather my approach 
reflects the informal nature of this Service. 
The starting point is the policy terms. Its a requirement of virtually all legal expenses
insurance policies that any intended claim has a reasonable prospect of succeeding. Mr Hs
policy is no exception. That means his claims needed to be more likely than not to succeed 
in order for Aviva to cover them or help him negotiate settlement of them. 
We dont think this is unfair. Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer
wouldnt want to bear the cost if advised it is unlikely to succeed. We wouldnt expect a legal
expenses insurer to fund claims in these circumstances either.
Where an insurer has declined funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate the merits of
the underlying claim. Instead, and as the investigator explained, we look at whether the
insurer has acted fairly. So long as they have got advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we
wont generally question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong
or based on factual mistakes. Aviva did this. They obtained a Barristers opinion which set 
out that Mr Hs claims didnt have reasonable prospects of being successful. I appreciate 
that Mr H has since obtained his own advice but there is nothing in it that persuasively sets 
out why the Barrister initially instructed was wrong and nor does it offer a considered opinion 
on the specific merits of the claims being higher than previously advised. 
Im satisfied that the Barrister was experienced in the area of law Mr H was asking for help
with and theres nothing to suggest that opinion was obviously wrong or based on factual 
mistakes. Because of this I think Aviva were entitled to rely on it when declining cover both 
for negotiating settlement on Mr Hs behalf and pursuing his claims.
Overall, I know Mr H doesnt agree with the advice given to him and feels that hes been 
advised he has a strong and winnable case against the other party by a more senior 
Barrister. Whilst that may be the case, there is nothing in the form of his Barristers opinion 
that supports this in a considered form on the question of merits. If hes able to obtain this 
type of opinion, then Id expect Aviva to reconsider things but as matters stand, I dont think 
they presently need to do anything more.
Mr H has also complained that Aviva have refused to fund a medical report for him. In this 
case Mr H hasnt been able to demonstrate his claim has reasonable prospects of success 
so he wouldnt be entitled to any further funding. But even if he had been able to show this, 
Im not persuaded that the cost of a medical report would be covered in any event. I say so 
because the dispute itself could only fit within the Employment Disputes cover which extends 
to Checking and advising on the terms of settlement. I appreciate Mr H feels that his claims 
amount to a breach of (his) legal rights under employment law but I dont agree that the 
claims hes made fall under that heading. Thats because the dispute is with his professional 
body rather than his employer so whilst his employment rights might be affected, I dont 
agree that that is the specific issue being determined in the claims. When reaching this 
conclusion Im also mindful of the advice Mr H sought from a Barrister which he then 
confirmed to Aviva was that his employment rights at that time had not been affected
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Hs complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 May 2023. 
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman