DRN-3154276
The complaint
Mr M complains HSBC UK Bank Plc irresponsibly approved him for two loans.
What happened
 Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point that has been made.
Below is intended to be a summary of events leading to the complaint and isnt a full timeline 
of every event or point made.
In March 2017 Mr M took out two personal loans with HSBC for £5,000 in a 24-hour period.
Mr M said at this time he was suffering from a compulsive gambling disorder. He applied for 
the loans at what hes described as his worst period of suffering from the disorder. 
He said he was also substantially overdrawn in his HSBC current account at the time of the 
applications.
Mr M says HSBC acted irresponsibly in approving the loans and allowing him to go so 
excessively overdrawn. He raised a complaint with HSBC but wasnt satisfied with their 
response, so he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt think HSBC had carried out proportionate checks and had it done so, 
wouldnt have agreed to lend to Mr M. 
He said at the time of the loan applications, Mr Ms unarranged overdraft limit had reached 
around £5,000, which was around twice his monthly salary. And had HSBC checked how he 
was running his account; it would have highlighted a cause for concern.
He felt Mr Ms complaint should be upheld and our service should also consider the use of 
Mr M's current account - as this was a key factor in considering what HSBC ought to have 
known about his finances at the time of application.
To put things right our investigator recommended:
Refund interest 
charged on both loans including 8% statutory interest
Refund any interest and charges accrued on Mr Ms current account relating to his 
unarranged overdraft from January 2017 until when the account was closed
Remove any adverse information relating to the loans from his credit file and return it 
to reflect as if the loans hadnt been granted
HSBC agreed to our investigators recommendations to refund the interest and charges on 
the overdraft, and interest for the loans, but hasnt confirmed whether it agreed with the 
recommendation to remove adverse information from the credit file.
Mr M said while he welcomed our investigators recommendations, he felt they didnt go far 
enough. Mr M has provided further comments describing how his life was severely impacted 
following taking the loans. Mr M feels this could have been avoided if the loans had not been 
approved. Mr M has also commented he has seen other complaints where different 
directions have been given, by our service, to financial businesses - which he feels are 
similar circumstances.
The complaint then passed to me.
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision on 25 October 2021. In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr M has strong views about what has happened, and Im sorry to hear about
the things hes described in his submissions. I want to assure him Ive read and carefully
considered everything both he and HSBC have said.
As the use of Mr Ms current account is a key factor in considering what HSBC should have
been reasonably aware of at the time of Mr Ms loan applications, Ive also included this in
my provisional findings.
Im intending to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why
The overdraft
While I appreciate HSBCs comment it sometimes allows payments to merchants to clear,
resulting in an account entering an unarranged overdraft, I dont think it was reasonable for it
to have allowed it to do so in these circumstances - and to levels that it did.
HSBC would have been reasonably been aware the transactions were for gambling
merchants. And I can see from the account statements, the account had been in an
unarranged overdraft throughout January 2017.
After recovering for short period, the account entered into a larger unarranged overdraft
again in February 2017 and remained in this position until the loans were taken. The account
continued to enter unarranged overdrafts following the loan applications.
So, I think HSBC had enough information that would cause concern about how the account
was being managed. The account had been in an unarranged position for some time and
more than once prior to the loans being taken and continued to do so after. So I think this
shouldve made HSBC reasonably aware of an issue and prompted it to contact Mr M to
discuss bringing the account back into a manageable position. But I cant see it did.
To put things right, Im intending to direct HSBC to remove any interest and charges applied
to the account in relation to the unarranged overdraft from January 2017 onwards.
The loans
When approving the loans, HSBC said it asked Mr M about his income and expenditure and
referred to credit reference agencies. But I think it needed to carry out further checks.
As Mr M held his current account with HSBC, this means HSBC had access to information
regarding how it was managed.
Had it considered this, I think it wouldve seen Mr M had entered an unarranged limit that
was around double his monthly salary and two loans with monthly repayments of around£319 wouldve not been sustainable.
Additionally, Mr Ms account had consistently been in this position for some time prior to this
and most of the transactions related to gambling. This would have highlighted a potential
issue with Mr Ms spending, which in turn could relate to compulsive gambling. As Ive said
above, I dont think HSBC did enough to act on the information it had regarding the
overdraft, and I think had it done further checks, it wouldve seen the loan repayments were
not sustainable and it wouldnt have approved the loans.
With this mind, I think HSBC should put Mr M as far as possible back in the position he was
in prior to taking the loans, but with any capital remaining outstanding - as he has spent
these funds and they should be repaid. So Im intending to say that HSBC should refund any
interest and charges relating to the loans and remove any adverse information from his
credit file relating to them.
Compensation
While gambling issues appear to have begun to present themselves prior to the loan
applications, Mr Ms HSBC current account had already been in an unarranged overdraft for
a significant amount of time.
From looking at how the unarranged overdraft had increased in February 2017, HSBC
approving the two loans, for significant amounts, in a short space of time, would have
significantly added to, and exacerbated, the impact the issues were having on Mr M.
Mr M has provided detailed comments about the emotional and psychological impact
repaying the loans had on him. Mr M has also described the period in which he took these
loans as the worst period of his gambling disorder. Although Mr M was meeting his loan
payments, I can see from his current account statements that following the loan application
his finances continued to remain in a similar condition throughout 2017. So although the
payments were being made, I do think this would have been particularly stressful for Mr M.
Im intending to direct HSBC to refund interest and charges relating to the loans and
overdraft, and I think this goes some way towards putting things. I also think HSBC should
recognise the distress Mr M has been caused and pay compensation for the distress its
actions have caused Mr M.
So, In addition to my other intended directions, I think HSBC should pay Mr M £250
compensation.
Mr M has referenced previous decisions made by other ombudsmen, which he says involve
similar facts. But, as Mr M has himself commented we consider each case on its own
individual facts, taking into account what we think is fair and reasonable in the
circumstances. And we arent bound by our previous decisions.
Putting things right
To put things right, Im intending to direct HSBC to:
Refund interest and charges for both loans. HSBC should also apply 8% statutory
interest to this figure
Refund any interest and charges incurred by Mr M from when he entered the 
unarranged overdraft in January 2017 until the date the account closed
Remove any adverse information relating to the loans from Mr Ms credit filePay Mr M £250 compensation
Responses to my provisional decision
HSBC said it believed it had made the lending decision in full compliance with regulatory 
guidelines at time. It also said it believed Mr M to have been in an arranged overdraft as of 
January 2017. However, it said it acknowledged Mr Ms situation and the distress caused 
and said it would be willing to accept my intended directions as a gesture of goodwill, without 
an admission of liability.
Mr M didnt agree with my provisional findings. He said the compensation set out in my 
provisional findings did not fairly recognise the distress he had been caused by HSBC. 
He reiterated his points about the impact of his gambling disorder. And provided further 
detail for me to consider regarding his emotional and psychological condition both before 
and after HSBC approved the loans.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has provided a detailed submission in response to my provisional decision. I want to 
assure him Ive considered everything he has said  in addition to reviewing everything 
already available to me on file. However, it doesnt change my decision  or my reasoning. 
I appreciate the impact the gambling disorder has had on Mr M. As Ive said, HSBCs actions 
may have exacerbated the impact the gambling issues were having on Mr M. But while its 
actions may have contributed to the distress Mr M experienced; Im not persuaded HSBC 
should be held solely responsible for issues Mr M experienced at that time. So for the 
reasons Ive set out above, my direction that HSBC pay Mr M £250 compensation remains 
the same.
Putting things right
To put things right, I direct HSBC to:
Refund interest and charges for both loans. HSBC should also apply 8% statutory 
interest to this figure
Refund any interest and charges incurred on Mr Ms overdraft from January 2017 
until the date the account closed
Remove any adverse information relating to the loans from Mr Ms credit file
Pay Mr M £250 compensation
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
To put things right, I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to do as Ive set out above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 Michael Baronti
Ombudsman