DRN-4460060
The complaint
This complaint is about two buy-to-let mortgages Mrs B holds with Bank of Scotland Plc 
(BOS). Mrs B says BOS provided the mortgages in the knowledge that the properties were 
worth less than the amount being borrowed, and failed to carry out appropriate due diligence 
before offering her the mortgages.
To settle the complaint Mrs B wants BOS to write off the mortgage debts and pay her 
compensation for the distress she has been caused.
Mrs B has instructed solicitors to act for her, but for clarity I will refer to Mrs B throughout as 
if all submissions are made by her.
What happened
I do not need to set out the full background to the complaint. This is because the history of 
the matter is set out in the correspondence between the parties and our service, so there is 
no need for me to repeat the details here. In addition, our decisions are published, so its 
important I dont include any information that might lead to Mrs B being identified. So for 
these reasons, I will instead concentrate on giving a brief summary of the complaint, 
followed by the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because 
Ive ignored it; rather, itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint.
This complaint is rather simpler than has been presented. In 2007 Mrs B applied for two BTL 
mortgages on new-build flats (which I will refer to as 6a and 8a) with BOS, after discussing 
her requirements with a third-party broker. The mortgage offer shows that no advice or 
recommendation was given to Mrs B and that it was up to her to decide whether to accept 
the mortgage offers. 
The mortgage applications were submitted via a packager, which meant that BOS had no 
direct contact with the broker. 
Mrs B told BOS on the application form for 6a that the purchase price was £164,995 and that 
she needed a mortgage of £140,946, on an interest-only basis. BOS was told that the 
deposit was being paid by Mrs B from her savings. For 8a, the purchase price was £116,000 
and Mrs B wanted a mortgage of £100,572, again with the deposit coming from her savings. 
BOS was later told by Mrs B that this was, in fact, untrue and that the deposits had been 
gifted by the developer.
An independent third party surveyor was instructed to provide a valuation for BOS, following 
which the bank issued the mortgage offers and Mrs B completed on her purchases.
When the property market crashed in 2008 Mrs B discovered that the flats shed bought 
were worth less than shed expected and she wasnt able to rent them out for as much as 
shed been led to believe by the developer. Mrs B hasnt been able to sell the flats because 
they are in negative equity.
Mrs B holds BOS responsible for this situation. She complained to the bank, saying that if it 
had carried out its due diligence, it would never have offered her the mortgages. BOS didnt 
uphold the complaint, so Mrs B brought it to our service.
An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. She was satisfied that BOS was entitled to rely on the opinion of the surveyor and 
that the valuations had been carried out for mortgage purposes only. The investigator was 
also satisfied that it was clear the mortgages were interest-only, and that it was reasonable 
for BOS to rely on a sale of the properties as the intended repayment strategy.
Overall, the investigator didnt think BOS had acted irresponsibly in offering the mortgages to 
Mrs B.
In relation to Mrs Bs other concerns about what had happened after the mortgages were 
taken out, the investigator was satisfied that BOS wasnt responsible for, or under any 
obligation in relation to, taking action against surveyors or solicitors who had acted in the 
transaction. The investigator also didnt think BOS was under any obligation to freeze 
interest or allow negative equity sales of the properties.
The investigator also noted that Mrs B had raised new complaints during the course of the 
investigation. Mrs B wasnt happy about how her complaint had been handled, and the 
investigator explained that this wasnt something we were able to look into. Mrs B also said 
that she had found a buyer for one of her properties and was unhappy that BOS wouldnt 
agree to this, because the shortfall exceeded its policy. The investigator said that Mrs B 
would first need to raise this with BOS as a new complaint.
Mrs B didnt accept the investigators findings, and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She repeated all the points shes previously made about why she considers the 
developer, the solicitors, the brokers, the surveyors and BOS are responsible for the 
situation she now finds herself in.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will begin by explaining that I wont be looking at Mrs Bs concerns about how BOS has 
dealt with her complaint. We can only consider complaints that are about regulated activities, 
or that are ancillary to regulated activities (for example, account administration or debt 
collection). Whilst the Financial Conduct Authority requires businesses to have a complaints 
procedure, the handling of complaints doesnt fall within the scope of either a regulated 
activity or an ancillary activity. In the context of this complaint  about irresponsible lending 
and about BOSs forbearance action  a complaint about complaint-handling doesnt come 
within the ambit of an activity thats ancillary to a regulated activity. I therefore cant comment 
on how BOS has dealt with the complaint.
And, as the investigator explained, any new issues that have arisen since the complaint was 
brought to us will need to be raised first with BOS. If after 8 weeks the bank hasnt issued a 
final response letter, or if it has and Mrs B isnt happy with it, she can bring a fresh complaint 
to us about those new issues. But I wont be able to consider them here.
I must also explain that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent of both 
consumers and the businesses they are complaining about. This means that we dont act for 
consumers, nor do we take instructions either from consumers or businesses, or allow either 
party to direct the course of our investigations; were we to do so, it would compromise our independence and impartiality. Its up to us to determine what evidence we need in order to 
investigate a complaint. So although Ive noted the questions which Mrs B would like 
answered, its not my role to put those questions to BOS or act as a representative or 
go-between on this case.
I also confirm that this decision relates only to Mrs Bs complaint against BOS. Any action 
BOS (or indeed any other mortgage lenders) may, or may not, have taken in relation to other 
similar mortgages is of no relevance to this complaint.
Mis-sale complaint: I confirm Ive read everything Mrs B has sent us, and I have no doubt 
from what shes said that this has been a very stressful time for her. I dont underestimate 
her strength of feeling about what happened. I note Mrs B believes she has been a victim of 
a scam perpetrated on her by the developer, the mortgage broker and the surveyors  and 
that BOS was negligent in not spotting this and protecting her interests.
These were unregulated mortgages, and so the regulatory protections offered to residential 
mortgage customers do not apply here. Mrs B was taking out the mortgages as a 
commercial investment.
Mrs B was responsible for ensuring that the information she provided to BOS on the 
mortgage applications was true and accurate. BOS was told that Mrs B was providing the 
deposits for the properties from her savings. This wasnt true, the deposits were gifted by 
the developer, and Mrs B knew this. However, BOS wasnt told this and didnt know. The 
bank was entitled to assume that the information on the applications forms was accurate. Im 
satisfied that if the true picture had been disclosed to BOS, its decision to lend might well 
have been different. But BOS could not have known that the applications contained false 
information.
BOS was required to appoint a suitably-qualified valuer to inspect the properties. The 
surveyor instructed was a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. The 
valuer was employed by a third-party firm, independent from BOS, and over which this 
service has no jurisdiction. Ive no power to consider whether the valuation was flawed in 
any way. My remit is limited to the actions of BOS. The valuation was solely for BOSs 
benefit; its purpose was to enable BOS to decide whether the properties Mrs B was buying 
were suitable security for the money shed asked to borrow. BOS was entitled to rely on the 
valuations when it decided to provide the mortgages.
Because this was a BTL mortgage I think its also important to clarify what the courts have 
said about this type of purchase where mortgage valuations are in dispute.
In the case of Scullion v Bank of Scotland [2011] EWCA Civ 693 the Court of Appeal 
provided a clear demarcation between residential and investment purchasers. The issue in 
question in Scullion was whether a valuer providing a report to a mortgage lender for a BTL 
mortgage owed a duty of care towards the borrower and was liable to the borrower for a 
negligent valuation.
The Court of Appeal was unanimous in deciding that a surveyor who provides a valuation 
report for a BTL lender does not owe the borrower a duty of care. This is because the courts 
consider the purchase of BTL investment property to be a commercial venture. 
Indeed, I note that in a letter to BOS dated 12 January 2023, Mrs Bs solicitors acknowledge 
this to be the position. They have also confirmed that Mrs Bs applications for compensation 
made to the Solicitors Regulation Authority Compensation Fund (SRA) were also 
unsuccessful.Although I can depart from the approach followed by the courts it if I think its fair and 
reasonable, I dont intend to do so here. Thats because, as a commercial borrower 
purchasing two BTL properties, Im satisfied that it was up to Mrs B to have carried out her 
own due diligence, have her own survey done on the property and satisfy herself as to the 
rental income shed be able to generate from her investments.
There was no obligation on BOSs part to provide Mrs B with a copy of the valuation. Nor 
was there any duty on BOSs part to ensure the properties were suitable BTL investments 
for Mrs B; as a commercial borrower and a BTL investor, that responsibility was Mrs Bs, and 
hers alone. 
In the circumstances, Im unable to find that BOS acted irresponsibly when it offered the 
mortgages to Mrs B. The bank was entitled to rely on both the accuracy of the information 
provided on the application forms, and on the professional opinion of third parties. This 
means Im unable to find that the mortgages were mis-sold.
Complaint that BOS failed to take action: Im not persuaded BOS was under any 
obligation to take action against solicitors, brokers or surveyors on behalf of Mrs B. This is a 
commercial decision BOS is entitled to make. BOS doesnt act for, or represent, Mrs Bs 
interests and it is up to her to take her own action, if she considers it appropriate to do so. As 
I noted above, Mrs Bs solicitors have confirmed that Mrs B has unsuccessfully tried to claim 
compensation from the SRA, the brokers are no longer trading and that Mrs B has been 
advised that she has no claim against the surveyor. But that doesnt mean that BOS is 
required to make its own claims if the bank doesnt wish (or is advised not) to do so.
Complaint that BOS has refused to offer forbearance: Although mortgage lenders are 
required to offer forbearance to residential mortgage customers in line with regulatory 
obligations, this doesnt apply in the case of unregulated commercial mortgage borrowers. 
However, BOS is required to treat Mrs B fairly and reasonably. BOS has offered to look at 
Mrs Bs circumstances to see what it can do to assist her. 
If Mrs B wants to sell the properties, BOS has a process for this, called the Negative Equity 
process. BOS has to agree to any offer made. Once there is an accepted offer and the 
property is sold, the money is used to clear part of the mortgage, the legal charge is 
released and the remaining debt becomes unsecured. Mrs B would then need to provide 
BOS with proposals on how she intends to repay this unsecured debt. BOS has confirmed 
that no interest is charged on a shortfall debt. However, this would impact Mrs Bs credit file, 
with any shortfall showing as a default, with the mortgage only partly-settled.  
BOS has also explained that if Mrs B doesnt want to sell at the moment, she can complete a 
mortgage review to see if there is a better interest rate available to her. This would, of 
course, tie her into a fixed-rate interest rate product, so there would be an early repayment 
charge if the properties are sold within the fixed-rate period.
Conclusion: Im satisfied that BOS did not act irresponsibly in offering the mortgages to 
Mrs B, based on the information provided on the application forms and by the surveyors and 
solicitors.
Im also satisfied that BOS isnt under any obligation to take action against third parties on 
behalf of Mrs B. 
Finally, Im satisfied that BOS has a process in place to assist BTL borrowers who are in 
difficulty. It is up to Mrs B to engage with BOS to discuss her circumstances and put forward 
any proposals if she wants to sell the properties at a shortfall.I know this isnt the outcome Mrs B was hoping for. I do not doubt for a moment that she 
entered into these purchases in the expectation that they would provide her with a return on 
her investment. Sadly, it transpired that she was misled by the developer, and the 
repercussions of this have been devastating for her. I have considerable sympathy for the 
situation she is now in. But I have to put aside my natural feelings of empathy and decide the 
case on the basis of the evidence.
However, equally, I cannot ignore that BOS was also misled. The bank was provided with 
false information about the source of the deposits, and about the rental income and 
valuations. Im satisfied that it was incumbent on Mrs B to ensure the accuracy of the 
information provided to BOS. As I have stated above, BOS was reasonably entitled to 
assume this information was true and accurate. In addition, Mrs B didnt carry out her own 
due diligence, which, if she had done so, might have led her to conclude that this might not 
have been a sound investment for her after all. I cant hold BOS responsible for that.
Overall, after taking into consideration all the circumstances of this complaint, Im unable to 
find that BOS has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
discussion about it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman