DRN-3711894
The complaint
Mr P complains about the amount AWP P&C SA paid following a claim he made on his 
motor warranty.
Reference to AWP includes its agents.
What happened
Mr P holds a motor warranty with AWP. After his car broke down, it was recovered and 
diagnosed. The cost of the repair was £32,299.99. But AWP said it was limiting settlement to 
£29,799.99.
It said it the policy limited any settlement to the purchase price of the vehicle. But it said as 
Mr P couldnt evidence how much he purchased the car for it was limiting the settlement to 
the amount the repairer valued the car at.
Mr P wasnt happy with this and complained but AWP didnt change its stance. So, Mr P 
brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld. He 
thought Mr P has shown that he purchased his car for £35,000. So he thought AWP should 
pay the difference between what it originally offered and the full cost of the repair. This 
equated to £2,500.
Mr P agreed with our investigators view. AWP didnt respond. So, the case has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill explain why:
Its accepted that the cost of the repair was £32,299.99.
Its also widely accepted that the policy limits cover to the purchase price of the car. It 
is this purchase price thats in dispute.
Im persuaded Mr P has evidenced he paid £35,000 for the car. Ive seen his bank 
statement which shows transactions totalling this amount being sent to the private 
seller. Our investigator put this to AWP, but AWP didnt respond, so Ive no good 
reason to understand why AWP doesnt accept this as valid proof of purchase.
Based on this, the limit of the policy is more than the cost of this repair, so AWP need 
to cover the full repair.
As I understand it, the repair has been paid for in full. So, AWP need to pay Mr P the 
difference between its original contribution and the full cost of the repair. That 
equates to £2,500. As Mr P has been without this money since he paid it to the 
repairer, AWP should include 8% simple interest on any payment it makes.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Mr Ps complaint. To put things right I require AWP 
P&C SA to:
Pay Mr P £2,500  this represents the difference between AWPs initial contribution 
to the repair and the full price of the repair. AWP should add 8% interest to this 
payment. Interest should be calculated from the date Mr P paid the repairer, to the 
date AWP pays him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman