DRN-4375239
The complaint
Mr C complains about the apology and explanation offered to him by The Co-operative Bank 
Plc (Co-op) after he complained about a number of customer service failings. 
What happened
Mr C was planning a trip abroad and so he called his bank, Co-op, to let them know. Co-op 
told Mr C that they would make a note of his travel plans on their system. However, when Mr 
C tried to use his card in a hotel whilst he was away, a transaction was declined. 
Mr C then contacted Co-op to find out what had happened and to make a complaint. There 
was some back and forth between Mr C and Co-op over the following days, and Mr C was 
promised call backs which did not happen. Unhappy with Co-ops approach to his complaint, 
Mr C brought his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into things and wrote to Co-op to ask if it would be willing to 
pay Mr C £60 to resolve his complaint and move forward. Co-op responded to say that it 
didnt think it had done anything wrong in blocking the transaction Mr C had attempted to 
make whilst abroad, the transaction had been flagged as a security risk - not because Co-op 
had not made a note of Mr Cs travel plans. That being said, Co-op recognised that Mr C had 
spent a long time on the telephone with them and he had been promised call backs which he 
did not receive. So, it agreed to pay Mr C £60 by way of an apology. 
Mr C didnt think the compensation was high enough and he said hed like a written apology 
and a better explanation as to what went wrong. He also wanted to know why Co-ops call 
waiting times were so long.
Our investigator spoke to Co-op again and it then sent Mr C a letter of apology and 
confirmed the £60 in compensation had been paid into Mr Cs account. However, Mr C 
maintained that he wanted a more detailed explanation as to Co-ops customer service 
failings.  
As an agreement has not been reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
Having considered the submissions from both Mr C and Co-op, I agree with the outcome the 
investigator reached for the same reasons. Ill explain why in more detail below. 
It is not in dispute here that Co-ops customer service levels fell below what was expected of 
it  Co-op have admitted this and offered compensation. So, I dont need to make a finding 
on what happened here and who caused it. But I do need to make a finding on whether the 
compensation offered is fair in all the circumstances of the complaint. 
Co-op have said that they did make a note of Mr Cs travel plans when he initially called and 
Ive seen screenshots of Co-ops internal system that show me this is correct. Ive also seen 
evidence that shows me that one card transaction was declined during the period that Mr C 
was abroad and this was because the transaction was identified as a security risk, not 
because Co-op hadnt updated its system. Co-op has an obligation to protect its customers 
accounts from fraud if it identifies a security risk, and so I dont think it did anything wrong in 
blocking the transaction in question when a risk was identified. It took this action to protect 
Mr Cs account. 
Having said the above, I do understand that having made his initial complaint, Mr C was 
promised call backs that were not received. I can also understand how frustrating this must 
have been for Mr C  especially given that this meant he had to call Co-op back himself and 
the waiting times he experienced were so long. But Co-op has already offered Mr C £60 as 
an apology for the inconvenience caused to him and for not calling him back when they said 
they would. And I can see that Co-op has also put this apology in writing as Mr C requested 
also. 
So, whilst I understand that Mr C would like a detailed explanation as to exactly what went 
wrong here, Im not persuaded that this is now warranted. For whatever reason, its clear 
that call backs werent arranged as they shouldve been. Co-op have said this was a mistake 
and it shouldnt have happened. And it has put forward an offer of compensation and 
apology to put things right. Its also not unusual to experience a certain level of frustration 
and minor annoyance when dealing with financial businesses and call wait times can be long 
if demand for a particular service is high. So, whilst I understand that this would have 
undoubtably been frustrating for Mr C, I dont think Co-op needs to do anything further here. 
Im satisfied that its written apology and its offer of £60 compensation is fair and reasonable 
when considering the trouble and upset caused to Mr C. 
My final decision
The Co-operative Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay Mr C £60 to settle this 
complaint and I understand this has now been paid into his account. 
As the compensation under discussion here has already been paid, I dont think The Co-
operative Bank Plc needs to do anything else to settle this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Emly Hanley HayesOmbudsman