DRN-3686909
The complaint
Ms D complained about HDI Global SE. She isnt happy that it cancelled her policy and 
turned down a claim under her Public House and Wine Bar Package Insurance policy.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as HDI Global are 
responsible for it, Ive just referred to HDI Global in this decision.
What happened
Ms D made a claim under her Public House and Wine Bar Package policy in April 2021 after 
a fire at her property. But when HDI Global started to look into the matter it wouldnt pay the 
claim and cancelled the policy back to September 2020. 
It transpired that there was an error in the business trading name. The policy was originally 
taken out with Ms D as a sole trader, but the business had moved to a limited company 
(Company A) and so should have been insured as such from around 2016. However, HDI 
Global have acknowledged that it would have provided cover for Company A had it have 
known. The limited company (A) went into liquidation in September 2020 and so HDI Global 
wouldve cancelled cover around that time because of the liquidation. And it wouldnt have 
allowed Ms Ds new company (Company B) to take out insurance with it because she was a 
director of the former business (Company A) at the time of liquidation. So, it wouldnt provide 
cover from that point in time as Ms D was a director when the first company (A) went into 
liquidation. 
In effect, HDI Global cancelled the policy in September 2020 because Company A went into 
liquidation. And it wouldnt accept the risk Company B posed, in line with its underwriting 
criteria, because Ms D was a director of both companies.
So, HDI Global cancelled the policy from the date it should have been made aware of this 
and turned down the claim as it wouldnt have provided cover from that point in time. So, Ms 
D complained to HDI Global and then this Service about this as she didnt think this was fair.
Our investigator looked into things for Ms D but didnt uphold her complaint. Although he 
sympathised with the position Ms D found herself in following the fire he didnt think that HDI 
Global had acted unreasonably. He was satisfied that Ms D should have taken out her 
insurance policy under the correct business entity name and that she should have told HDI 
Global about going into liquidation in September 2020. And had these steps have been 
correctly taken HDI Global wouldnt have provided cover. So he thought HDI Global had 
acted reasonably in cancelling the policy from that point in time and turning down the claim. 
As Ms D didnt agree the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and despite my natural sympathy for the extremely difficult position Ms D 
has found herself in following a fire at her property, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
I think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information provided 
by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been said in 
this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux 
of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless 
its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
I can understand why Ms D isnt happy about the cancellation of her policy and the 
consequences of all of this, which have been severe. But I have to be fair to both sides when 
I look at complaints. And when Ms D took out her insurance policies she should have taken 
out the policy under the correct business entity name which all sides accept. And while I 
accept that her accountant may have dealt with her accounts poorly, which led to the 
insolvency, she should have told HDI Global about this in line with the policy terms and 
conditions.  
Ms D took out her policy in May 2020 and at that point in time she should have taken out the 
policy in Company As name. Winding up procedures commenced in September 2020 and 
HDI Global said that it would have cancelled the policy at this time once a liquidator was 
appointed in line with the policy terms and conditions. And it highlights that it wouldnt have 
provided cover for Ms Ds new company (Company B) at this stage as she had been a 
director of a liquidated Company within the last three years which its underwriters wouldnt 
accept. Ive seen evidence of HDI Globals underwriting criteria which supports its position.
The law relevant to this activity is The Insurance Act 2015 (The Act) and Ive considered 
this as part of my consideration of the case. The Act says a commercial policyholder has a 
duty to make a fair presentation of the risk. This means its for the policyholder to provide 
relevant information to the insurer, whether its been requested or not. 
This should include everything Ms D knew, or ought to know, that would influence the 
judgment of an insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms; or enough 
information to put an insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries about 
potentially material circumstances.
I know Ms D doesnt dispute that the name was incorrect but believes this was a simple error 
on her part. But as a commercial consumer there is a greater onus on her to ensure she told 
her insurer about relevant information whether its requested or not  so she shouldve 
reviewed the information and told HDI Global about any changes or incorrect information. 
And the policy wasnt cancelled for this reason in any event, it was cancelled because the 
company had gone into liquidation.
I do accept that the circumstances leading to the liquidation for Company A may have been 
out of Ms Ds control. But that doesnt remove the duty to tell her insurer relevant 
information, especially as the director of the limited company. The policy says under 
Keeping the Insurer Informed that Ms D should have notified the insurer without delay if 
the Insured becomes aware that information the Insured has given the Insurer is inaccurate 
or within fourteen (14) days of the Insured becoming aware about any changes in the 
information the Insured has provided to the Insurer which happens before or during the 
period of insurance. In response the insurer will tell Ms D how all of this would affect her insurance, For example, 
the Insurer may amend the terms of the Insureds insurance or require the Insured to pay 
more for the Insureds insurance or cancel the Insureds insurance in accordance with the 
Cancellation section. And goes on to highlight that If the Insured fail to notify the Insurer 
that information the Insured has provided is inaccurate, or the Insured fail to notify the 
Insurer of any changes, this insurance may become invalid and the Insurer may not pay the 
Insureds claim, or any payment could be reduced.
So, I think HDI Global has acted in line with the policy here. Plus, the documentation is clear 
that This Policy shall cease to be in force from the date of the alteration if..the Business 
is wound up or carried on by a liquidator or receiver or permanently discontinued.. And so, 
the documentation is clear that the policy would cease to be in force from the date Company 
A went into liquidation.
As our investigator has highlighted, such policy terms and conditions arent uncommon and 
are in line with what I would generally expect to see in policies like Ms Ds. I would expect 
HDI Global to be updated about the liquidation and to decide if it was a risk it was willing to 
insure. And, unfortunately for Ms D, its underwriting criteria is clear that it wouldnt have 
covered Company A or B after September 2020 because of the insolvency. 
As a commercial customer there was a greater onus on Ms D, Company A and B to ensure 
the risk presented was a fair representation and Im afraid it wasnt. So, whilst I sympathise 
with Ms D, who has been left in an extremely difficult position, Im satisfied that HDI Global 
has acted reasonably here and in line with what The Act allows.  
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman