DRN-3055890
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Accord Mortgages Limited didnt treat them fairly when they 
wanted to port their mortgage. They ask that the early repayment charge (ERC) is refunded.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W had a mortgage with Accord with a fixed interest rate product. As they 
intended to move house they checked that the product was portable. Mr and Mrs W say 
before looking for a property they asked Accord what value of property they could buy and 
port the product. They were given incorrect information about this.
The purchase price of the property Mr and Mrs W wanted to buy was less than the value of 
their previous property. Accord said it wouldnt lend them the same amount. This was due to 
the change in loan to value and concerns about the mortgage being affordable. This meant 
Mr and Mrs W had to pay an ERC on part of the mortgage they repaid. They say by the time 
they knew this they didnt want to pull out of their sale and purchase.
Mr and Mrs W accept that their circumstances changed and Accord has to lend responsibly. 
But they say they did everything they could to avoid paying the ERC. As Accord gave them 
incorrect information they say its fair for it to ask them to pay the ERC.
Our investigator said it was reasonable for Accord to decline to lend the amount Mr and 
Mrs W wanted to borrow. And it applied the ERC in accordance with the product terms. Our 
investigator said Accord didnt explain clearly how the ERC would apply and should pay 
compensation of £100 for this, which Accord agreed to do. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree, and so their complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to decide. This is the final step in our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W intended to move house. So they chose a portable product. And before 
looking for a property they checked with Accord the minimum value of the property theyd 
need to buy to port their mortgage and avoid paying an ERC. They say they could have 
bought the new property without a mortgage but wanted to retain some funds from their sale 
to invest in property.
Mrs W called Accord in May 2020 to ask about porting. She asked if the sale and purchase 
had to be simultaneous and about the value of the property they could buy. She was told 
Accord can lend up to 90% loan to value. Mrs W was told lending was subject to affordability 
checks. 
Mr and Mrs W found a property and met with Accords mortgage adviser in late June to 
make a porting application. They were told they couldnt port all of their mortgage loan 
(about £165,000) to the new property as this would result in a loan to value of 78%. Their 
existing fixed interest rate product was for mortgages of up to 65% loan to value.
Accord considered whether it could port all of the mortgage loan, despite the increased loan 
to value, as it had told Mrs W this was possible in May 2020. Accord assessed this amount 
of borrowing as unaffordable for Mr and Mrs W. It said it couldnt extend the mortgage term 
to make payments more affordable as it would extend past their expected retirement and 
they didnt have enough pension income. 
Accord said this wasnt a like for like porting application due to the change in the LTV and in 
Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances. Mr and Mrs Ws business was badly affected by the Covid-
19 pandemic and related government restrictions. In mid-2020 they werent sure when their 
business would recover. 
Accord offered a loan of about £110,000) under the transitional arrangements (these are 
rules on mortgage regulation which allow lenders to offer or vary mortgages despite 
concerns about affordability in certain circumstances if its in the customers best interests). It 
said porting part of the mortgage was in Mr and Mrs Ws best interests as they reduced their 
borrowing overall and after moving to a cheaper property would have use of the equity from 
their sale.
Mr and Mrs W went ahead with the sale and purchase on this basis. But they had to pay an 
ERC of about £1,400. Mr and Mrs W say Accord should refund this because of the incorrect 
information it gave them. When considering whether this would be fair, Ive taken the 
following into account:
The product offer set out the ERC and when it would apply. The amount of the ERC 
reduced after 31 August 2020 (from 2.5% to 1.5%). The product offer says porting is 
subject to meeting lending criteria.
Mrs W was given incorrect information about porting in May 2020. However, she was 
also told porting was subject to an affordability assessment, so she was made aware that 
porting wasnt a certainty.
The change in the loan to value wasnt the only reason that Accord didnt offer to port the 
full amount. It was also concerned about the mortgage being affordable for Mr and 
Mrs W. 
Mrs W says they had the equity from the sale available to repay the mortgage, so 
affordability wasnt an issue. Accord couldnt be certain that the equity from Mr and 
Mrs Ws sale would be available to repay the mortgage. For instance, Mr and Mrs W said 
they wanted to use the funds to invest in property.
Mrs W says they will be out of furlough from September 2021 as business is picking up. 
This is good news. But I dont think its fair to say that Accord could have known this in 
mid-2020. 
Mr and Mrs W were told in late June 2020 that they might not be able port all of their 
existing mortgage loan. In mid-July 2020 they were told the amount they could borrow for 
their purchase and that an ERC would be applied and went ahead on that basis. Their 
sale and purchase completed in late August 2020. 
Mrs W says they did everything they could to avoid paying the ERC. But Mr and Mrs W 
wanted to move house and free up equity for investment  which would mean moving to 
a lower value property. Theyd have been in the same position (not able to port the full 
amount) if theyd been given correct information in May 2020. If they wanted to reduce their ERC they could have waited until early September 2020 to complete, when the 
ERC reduced. 
Mrs W says their product wasnt ported and they were put on a higher interest rate. The 
mortgage offer issued on 14 August 2020 has a fixed interest rate of 1.88% until 31 
August 2021, which is the same as the product they took out in 2019. And Accord 
refunded part of the ERC. So I think the product was ported.
Mr and Mrs W were upset when they were told they couldnt port all of their mortgage and 
would have to pay an ERC. Theyve said they planned to try to avoid this. It would have 
been better if Accord had given them correct information in May and I think its right that it 
pays them compensate for the upset caused by not doing so. Ive also taken into account 
that Accord did tell Mrs W in May that porting was subject to affordability checks, and they 
were given correct information about porting and the ERC by mid-July. I think £100 for the 
upset and disappointment caused by the incorrect information is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Accord to refund the ERC. The ERC was 
correctly applied in accordance with the terms of the product Mr and Mrs W took out in 2019. 
While they were given incorrect information about porting in May 2020 they were given 
correct information by mid-July 2020. They decided to go ahead with their sale and purchase 
knowing theyd have to pay an ERC.
My final decision
My decision is that Accord Mortgages Limited should pay £100 to Mr and Mrs W, as it has 
agreed to do.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman