DRN-3873250
The complaint
Mr R complains that he lost money when he transferred funds between two accounts he held 
with Revolut Ltd.
What happened
Mr R attempted to transfer £20,000 from his Revolut current account to his Revolut savings 
vault on 22 May 2022. He believes the money was credited into the vault account but wasnt 
sent back to his current account when he closed the vault account.
Mr R contacted Revolut when he realised the transaction was pending for longer than 
expected. Revolut explained there was a technical issue and that even though the transfer 
remained pending, the funds were not lost. When Mr R later complained that hed lost the 
money, Revolut told him the funds had reverted to his current account. It acknowledged Mr 
Rs negative experience and apologised for the inconvenience, paying him £75 
compensation.
Mr R wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service, producing statements for both his 
current account and his vault account. He said that, earlier in the month, funds totalling 
£9,000 were also debited from his current account but they didnt show up on the statement 
for his vault account either.
Revolut doesnt accept Mr R has lost money. It accepts that while the payment was pending, 
Mr R didnt have access to the funds, but it maintains this was due to a technical error which 
meant the £20,000 showed up incorrectly in his savings vault. It has explained the error was 
resolved on 23 May 2022, and the money was reverted back to the current account. Mr R 
made twelve withdrawal attempts from the vault account between 22 and 24 May 2022, all of 
which were rejected because the money hadnt really been credited to the vault account.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that the 
£20,000 had reverted to the current account on 23 May 2022 and that a technical error 
meant Mr Rs vault account had shown an incorrect balance until the issue was resolved. 
Mr R wasnt satisfied and has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman, 
arguing that Revolut hadnt provided a copy of the vault account statement, and that there 
are discrepancies on the current account statement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr R feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why. 
Since our investigator issued his view, Ive had sight of all of the available evidence. Mr R 
has said that in addition to the £20,000, there were other transfers from his current account 
that didnt show up in his vault account. Unfortunately, Im unable to consider those 
transactions because Mr R didnt raise them with Revolut as part of this complaint.
Revolut has said from the outset that a technical error meant that, even though the 
transaction failed, the money showed up in Mr Rs vault account. It has said that the error 
meant the transfer showed as pending even though the money was never actually credited 
to the vault account. Instead, it was reverted into the current account.
Having considered the evidence, I dont accept that Mr R has lost any money. There is no 
record on the current account statement of £20,000 having left Mr Rs current account on or 
around 22 May 2022. This supports Revoluts explanation that the transfer was 
unsuccessful, as does the fact the balance didnt decrease. Further, there is no record of 
£20,000 ever having been credited into the vault account which, again, supports Revoluts 
explanation that the transaction was unsuccessful.
Compensation
Revolut has paid Mr R £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience that resulted 
from its failings and Im satisfied that is an appropriate amount and reflects the impact its 
failings had on him.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman