DRN-4008795
The complaint
Mr H and Mr H complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund disputed 
payments from their account.
What happened
One of the accountholders, Ill refer to as Mr H, went abroad. And when he came back says 
he noticed a number of card payments on the account that he didnt recognise. He is 
unhappy that Halifax wont refund them.
Halifax said that the Mr H involved here had explained that no one knew his PIN. And that as 
a result it was holding him responsible for these payments as they had been confirmed with 
the PIN.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that there were five 
payments in dispute that came to over £2,300 and there were related fees. The first was on 
25 May 2022 and the last on 4 June 2022. All the payments had required the chip on Mr Hs 
card to be read and the correct PIN to be entered. Mr H said he had never used the card 
when abroad or written the PIN down. The card was kept at his brothers address and his 
sister-in-law and nephew were also there. Mr H had said he was in possession of the card 
after the disputed payments. Our investigator said that it was highly unlikely that an unknown 
third party could have taken and replaced his card. The payments also took place over a 
period of time which would be unusual for a fraudster given the risk of detection. There was 
no way anyone known to him could have found out his PIN based on what Mr H had said. 
Our investigator also noted that Mr H had in contrast told Halifax that only his brother was in 
the property.
Mr H didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. He said hed seen a TV 
programme showing how a phone SIM card could be used to get access to a PIN. He said 
he took two phones with him on holiday and only used one of them. He maintained that he 
didnt authorise these payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised 
Mr H wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
- Did Mr H authorise the payments on the account including by allowing someone else to 
use the card?
Ive seen the audit logs from Halifax about the use of the card. Im satisfied that the disputed 
payments were made when the chip on the genuine card was read, and the PIN entered 
and so were authenticated. The issue is whether Mr H consented to them.
I note that payments started some 12 days after Mr H says he arrived abroad. And 
continued on the day after he says he left and by which time almost all of the money in the 
account had been taken.
He says he never input his PIN while abroad and had taken his own cash for the trip. He 
hasnt written his PIN down either. He has more recently said that his SIM might have been 
accessed. I dont have anything to support this, and Im not convinced on the evidence that 
even if this had happened his PIN would have been discovered from a banking app.
He says he hadnt allowed anyone to use the card and PIN. So, Id need to think that a third 
party was somehow able to get the card without him knowing and find out the PIN. And 
also, that this person wouldnt have taken out as much money as quickly as possible. Mr H 
had referred to checking his wallet with the card at times which he left at the property. And 
seemed to think he had the card before he left for the airport. In any event a fraudster 
wouldnt be able to anticipate when Mr H might check or want to use his card and be in a 
position to replace it each time. 
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. For 
the reasons Ive given I dont think it most likely that these payments were made without 
Mr Hs consent. They could have involved him allowing someone else to make them. I can 
appreciate that Mr H will be very disappointed by my assessment.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman