DRN-3548991
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with how Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) responded to his 
claim for money back in relation to a booking made using his credit card.
What happened
Mr G says he purchased accommodation using a booking platform (the agent) using his 
Creation credit card. He says that due to the Covid-19 pandemic the accommodation was 
cancelled by the provider and the agent has issued a refund. However, the refund was only 
for the amount paid on the credit card rather than the full price charged, the balance of which 
was paid for by vouchers.
Mr G says he complained to Creation about it in April 2020 but he is unhappy that it refused 
to refund him for the amount lost in vouchers. It says he doesnt have a valid claim under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) because the credit card payment 
went to the agent and not the supplier of the accommodation.
Mr G is also unhappy with the overall service he received from Creation, for example he has 
repeatedly had to chase for an answer and the responses have been unclear and unhelpful. 
He is also unhappy he was passed between the retailer who brands the card and Creation.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. In summary, he thought that the agents terms and 
conditions entitled Mr G to a full refund (including any vouchers used) so with Section 75 in 
mind Creation should provide him the £250 worth of vouchers he is claiming or the cash 
equivalent. He also said it should pay Mr G £50 compensation for the level of customer 
service he received.
Creation did not agree. It questions why the agent wouldnt have automatically refunded Mr 
G the cost of the vouchers in accordance with its terms if Mr Gs booking was cancelled by 
the supplier of the accommodation as he claims.
On 20 May 2022 I issued a provisional decision on this case. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I am considering whether Creation has acted fairly and reasonably in the 
way it handled Mr Gs request for help in getting money back. Usually for a transaction 
such as this a finance provider is able to consider raising a chargeback and assessing 
the claim under Section 75.
Chargeback only allows a customer to recover the money paid on their card. Mr G has 
had that money back but seeks a further refund for claimed losses in respect of 
vouchers he says went towards the balance of the transactions. So I turn to whether 
Creation should fairly pay Mr G for the amount he is claiming with its obligations under 
Section 75 in mind.
Section 75 can allow Mr G to hold Creation responsible for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by a supplier in respect of goods or services purchased using the 
credit afforded here. However, there are certain criteria that have to be met for Section 
75 to apply to a particular transaction. These criteria relate to the cost of the goods or 
services, the parties to the transaction, or the way the payment was made.
Unfortunately, I have very limited information about what happened here beyond what 
Mr G has told us. While I have taken this into account there is no official booking 
information provided that allows me to confirm the relevant parties to the contract, the 
services paid for and their price (alongside the relevant payment methods used). 
Therefore, I am unable to fairly conclude that Mr G has a valid Section 75 claim 
against Creation.
Furthermore, even if I were to accept that Mr G has a valid Section 75 claim I dont have 
enough information to persuade me the agent has failed to fulfil its obligations. From 
what Mr G says and the agents terms and conditions it appears he is entitled to a full 
refund (and received a refund on his card) so it isnt clear to me why he wouldnt have 
received everything due. Mr G has not been able to provide me with copies of 
interactions with the agent to confirm that it hasnt refunded him in accordance with its 
terms and why that may be the case. It is also unclear what the nature of Mr Gs actual 
loss is here. I have limited information about the voucher credit he is claiming. So it is 
difficult to conclude that the agent has breached its contract and caused a subsequent 
financial loss to Mr G in any event.
Creation has not been able to provide further information to date. And while Mr G has 
indicated he sent Creation more information it currently isnt clear what it received or 
that its actions have led to Mr G not reasonably having access to the information 
himself.
I have asked Mr G some questions to clarify things, and also requested some further 
evidence from him such as a booking confirmation and information from the agent about 
the status of any voucher refunds. Mr G has indicated that due to the passage of time 
he doesnt have all the relevant documentation. However, this doesnt fully account for 
why he has been unable to fully answer my questions or reasonably access electronic 
records such as emails or those held through the online account with the agent.
All things considered and based on the information I do have at the moment, with 
Section 75 in mind I cant fairly say Creation should refund Mr G for the £250 of 
vouchers he is claiming.
I have gone on to consider the customer service concerns Mr G has mentioned. Mr G is 
unhappy that he got passed from the retailer which brands the cards to Creation. I am 
unable to consider the actions of the retailer here as it is not the regulated financial 
business this complaint is set up against. So I have turned to what Creation has done.
From what I can see Creation explained why it was not refunding Mr G relatively 
promptly after his initial claim was raised. I can see an email it sent him in May 2020 
about this. It seems to sufficiently explain its reasons behind the decision. So on the 
face of it the customer service in that regard looks reasonable.
Mr G says he was passed around and that he had to chase things up with Creation 
who were not always clear with him. This would no doubt be frustrating. However, 
one thing to note is that around this time there were unprecedented challenges for 
businesses like Creation as a result of the global pandemic. This would reasonably explain why the communication would not always have been as timely or as tailored 
as it should be. Although Creation would be expected to assist Mr G through these 
challenges as best it can, from what I have seen I am not persuaded it acted in such 
a way as to warrant a payment of compensation here.
I asked the parties for a response.
Creation did not add anything further.
Mr G responded with further evidence including scanned receipts. After reviewing 
these I wrote to Mr G to say, in summary:
I didnt think Section 75 applied due to the relevant financial limits;
in any event it wasnt clear that the agent had breached its contract with the 
account holder; and
it was not clear there was a financial loss as it appears that Mr Gs claim is for 
the value of a likely expired coupon code. 
Mr G responded to say, in summary:
he belives that Section 75 does apply, and understands that as long as the 
overall cost is over £100 the amount paid by credit card is not relevant;
he believes that consumer law requires the credit card company to provide a 
full refund (including vouchers) where the contract has been cancelled without 
the service being provided; and
Creations reasoning for not providing a full refund was nonsensical and 
unhelpful and cannot be excused by the pressures surrounding the pandemic.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order for Section 75 to apply there has to be certain criteria met which is laid down in the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. One of those is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier agreement. I 
have already explained to Mr G that I consider there to be a valid debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement here. However, this is between him, Creation and the agent which received the 
credit card payment. There is not a valid debtor-creditor-supplier agreement for any 
potential Section 75 claim to cover the actions of the third-party supplier of the 
accommodation only in so far as the agent makes itself contractually liable for this.
In order for Section 75 to apply Mr Gs claim should also relate to goods or services with a 
cash price of more than £100 and not more than £30,000. 
Although Mr G has made the point that the total cost of the accommodation he booked was 
over £100, as I have explained above any potential Section 75 claim is only in respect of the 
contract he has with the agent. 
In this case the agents terms and conditions make it clear that it does not contract with Mr G 
for accommodation. It acts as an intermediary and provides its own buyer services to him for 
a separately itemised fee. So I consider the relevant cash price in respect of any Section 75 
claim against the agent is the fee which it charged for its own service.
The receipts show the agent charged Mr G a fee for its own service of less than £100 for 
each booking. Unfortunately, this presents a problem so far as any claim in relation to the agent potentially breaching its own terms in not providing a full refund. Section 75 likely does 
not apply here, and Creation is not responsible for any like claim of this kind.
However, whether the financial limits required for a valid Section 75 claim are met does not 
make a difference here in any event. For the claim to succeed I need to be satisfied that the 
agent has failed to act according to its buyer protection policies - causing Mr G a financial 
loss. Based on the limited evidence I have been presented with I am still not persuaded the 
agent has breached its contract with Mr G and caused a financial loss as a result. I will 
explain further.
The receipts provided by Mr G show the other payment method was coupon from what I 
can see from the agents descriptions of its various methods to pay these are unique 
discount codes that can be used once and have an expiry date. They can apparently be 
reinstated by the agent if they are still valid and a third-party cancels accommodation. 
However, there is limited information to show that at the time of issuing the credit card refund 
the agent had not reinstated unexpired coupon codes onto the account and why that might 
be the case. Because the agent issued a full cash refund to the card it is unclear why it 
wouldnt have also agreed to process other transactions if Mr G was eligible. And as I have 
already said in my provisional decision I think Mr G would reasonably have access to this 
information through the account with the agent.
So there is overall a lack of persuasive evidence to show the agent didnt do what it said it 
was going to do in its policies. But even if this were not the case, I am not persuaded there is 
a clear financial loss here that Creation should fairly be responsible for paying.  I know Mr G 
has referred to the requirement to refund vouchers but I dont think a coupon here is the 
same thing. The coupon appears to be a temporary/seasonal promotional discount code a 
customer can use once to save on a booking at the time. This is unlike a gift voucher, or 
similar persistent credit balance. It also appears that whether the coupon was reinstated or 
not there would have been limited opportunity to use it before expiry in any event.  So I am 
not persuaded this could fairly be seen as a consequential loss which Creation should be 
compensating Mr G for in any event.
In conclusion, I am not persuaded that Section 75 applies here. But in any event I consider 
there a lack of persuasive evidence to show the agent breached its contract with Mr G 
causing him a financial loss. All things considered (and with Section 75 in mind) I do not 
think it fair and reasonable to direct Creation to refund Mr G for the amount he is claiming.
I have also considered again what Mr G has said about Creations customer service. While I 
accept he was disappointed with Creations response and the reasons given for its refusal to 
refund him I dont think this in itself is a reason to make an award of compensation. Overall, I 
consider the reasons given in my provisional decision for not awarding compensation remain 
fair and reasonable.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman