DRN-3688444
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the way Avantia Insurance Limited sold and renewed their 
home insurance policy.
Mr S has primarily dealt with the claim and complaint, so Ill refer to him only.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr S took out home insurance through Avantia in 2014. It was initially underwritten by 
an insurer, X. The policy renewed yearly with that same arrangement until 2019, 
when the underwriter changed to L. It returned to X in 2020.
Prior to the next renewal, Mr S got in touch with X to make a claim. X accepted the 
claim but sought to reduce the settlement on the basis Mr S had underinsured the 
outbuildings.
 
Mr S didnt think this was fair. He said Avantia hadnt informed him what the cover for 
outbuildings included. He would have increased his cover if he had been.
A separate complaint has been considered against X. In brief, its been upheld on the 
basis it would be unfair to reduce the claim settlement.
This complaint is solely about the acts and omissions of Avantia in its role as broker 
when it arranged the policy each year. As it has arranged the policy for more than 
one insurer, it seems to have been acting independently.
I recently issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurer sells a policy directly to the consumer, its responsible for gathering 
information from the consumer that it considers relevant  such as the rebuild cost for 
outbuildings.
When a broker sells or renews a policy, its responsible for gathering that information 
from the consumer and passing it to the insurer. Its required to provide information 
thats clear, fair and not misleading. That includes asking clear and relevant 
questions and explaining and sufficiently highlighting to Mr S steps he must take in 
order to provide the right information to the insurer.
Whilst the policy was first arranged by Avantia in 2014, the most relevant information 
here is the renewal prior to the claim  in 2020. The 2020 policy documents says its 
important for Mr S to review and update certain information  the cover chosen and 
the information used to provide a quotation.
Relevant to this complaint, the documents say:
Outbuildings cover: £7,500
See Section 1 in your policy booklet
There are no other statements or any questions about the outbuildings cover. There 
is no further explanation about what the word outbuildings means or what Mr S 
should think about when deciding if £7,500 is a reasonable amount.
X has explained that it wanted to know how much it would cost to completely rebuild 
all Mr S outbuildings. Within the separate policy booklet, this word is defined so its 
full meaning is explained. It says it includes, amongst other things, detached 
garages, sheds, fences, driveways and patios.
I dont think Avantia conveyed to Mr S what X wanted to know. It didnt mention the 
full meaning of the word outbuildings and nor did it set out that the full rebuild cost of 
these things was needed. It effectively left it open to Mr S to interpret what 
outbuildings meant and to set a figure he was happy to insure them for.
Avantia says that Mr S was directed to the full policy booklet during the renewal. So 
he ought to have been aware what was meant by the word outbuildings.
I agree its important for policyholders to read the full document, as this forms the 
contract of insurance. But I dont think directing policyholders to read the document 
amounts to asking a clear question or highlighting key information, in line with a 
brokers duties.
Had Mr S followed the statement I quoted above, he would have gone to Section 1  
which is the buildings cover and doesnt include the definition for outbuildings. 
Instead, he would have to seek out the definitions section to find it. I dont think thats 
a reasonable expectation to place on a consumer. And Im not satisfied it fulfils 
Avantias requirement set out above.
I take into account that even if Mr S had been aware of the full definition of 
outbuildings, X also wanted to know how much it would cost to rebuild them in full. 
Avantias policy documents asked Mr S for a sum insured  and didnt explain what 
this phrase meant. Its not a phrase with one single, commonly understood meaning. 
Without any further explanation, I think most people would consider it to mean the 
amount Im choosing to insure something for or similar. So again, I dont think 
Avantia fulfilled its requirement.
Overall, having considered the way Avantia arranged the policy, Im not satisfied it 
provided clear information and took sufficient steps to ensure Mr S provided the right 
information. As a result, when the claim was made with X, it thought Mr S had 
provided the wrong information. 
Whilst Ive found X ultimately reached an unfair position, it was entitled to consider 
the information Mr S had provided and explore what impact that might have. Had 
Avantia treated Mr S fairly at the renewal, I think its unlikely the same kind of 
problems would have arisen. That means Avantia contributed to the claim problems 
and delays as a result of the way it arranged the policy.In these circumstances, Im satisfied it would be fair for Avantia to pay compensation 
to recognise the distress and inconvenience it contributed to. Im satisfied £250 is a 
reasonable and proportionate figure in the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S accepted my provisional decision.
Avantia didnt. It made several points, which Ill summarise and respond to in turn:
Mr S was sent the policy documents when the policy was first sold in 2014 and at 
each renewal since. The sale was non-advised and the onus was on Mr S to read the 
policy documents and ensure the cover was appropriate for him.
In 2016, Mr S called to change his address. He was asked if £7,500 was enough for 
his outbuildings and he confirmed it was.
The definition of outbuildings had remained unchanged during the underwriter 
changes and wasnt a new term added in 2020. Its set out on page five of the policy, 
its not hidden, and the policy contains further guidance about it.
The renewal in 2020 was automatic and Mr S didnt call Avantia at that time.
It had received answers to other cases with similar circumstances which reached 
different outcomes. 
We consider each case on its own merits. My consideration here is limited to Mr S case and 
its particular circumstances. So I cant comment on the outcomes reached in other cases.
To recap, when arranging a policy, a broker such as Avantia is required to provide 
information thats clear, fair and not misleading. That includes asking clear and relevant 
questions and explaining and sufficiently highlighting to Mr S steps he must take in order to 
provide the right information to the insurer.
Each renewal is a new contract of insurance and arranging that renewal amounts to selling a 
new policy. So its important that a broker fulfils these requirements at each renewal, as well 
as the initial sale.
I focused on the renewal in 2020 because that was the one prior to the claim. If Avantia had 
fulfilled its requirements at that time, whether it had done so at earlier renewals may not 
have been as relevant to Mr S complaint. But Ive taken into account everything else Avantia 
says is relevant from earlier renewals.
Many of the points Avantia made arent in dispute. Theres no suggestion it failed to send the 
policy documents. Or that the definition of outbuildings changed. And I agreed in my 
provisional decision that its important for policyholders to read their policy documents. I 
accept the sale was non-advised and renewals were automatic. But none of these points 
make a difference to the outcome  and they fail to take into account the things that do.
In 2020, X wanted to know how much it would cost to completely rebuild all Mr S 
outbuildings. The key question for me is whether Avantia fulfilled its requirements, set out 
above, when it arranged the policy for Mr S.
I explained in my provisional decision why I didnt think merely stating the sum insured for 
outbuildings at the 2020 renewal amounted to fulfilling the requirements. The definition of outbuildings didnt feature within the renewal documents and the phrase sum insured 
wasnt explained.
Avantia hasnt disputed either of those things. It seems to argue that because the renewals 
were non-advised, automatic, and some of the information Mr S needed to know could be 
found elsewhere, Avantia fulfilled its requirements.
Its a disappointing response and I dont find it at all persuasive. It doesnt materially change 
the information available to me when I made my provisional decision. I wont repeat my 
reasoning as its set out above. But, in summary, even in a non-advised and automatic 
renewal, the requirement on Avantia here was to ask clear and relevant questions, explain 
and sufficiently highlight to Mr S the information he must provide to meet Xs requirements in 
relation to the outbuildings sum insured.
Avantia failed to do that. It merely stated the sum insured for outbuildings in the renewal 
documents, without any explanation or guidance in the document, and expected Mr S to 
understand what that meant. In my view, that falls a long way short of meeting the 
requirements set out for a broker when arranging a policy.
Avantia says it asked Mr S in 2016 if £7,500 was enough for his outbuildings. I havent seen 
any evidence to show how this question was put to Mr S and whether any other guidance or 
information was added. So, on the face of it, the question appears to be equivalent to the 
renewal documents. It doesnt explain what is meant by outbuildings and doesnt highlight 
that the figure must represent the cost of rebuilding them. So it doesnt change anything.
Overall, I remain satisfied Avantia treated Mr S unfairly. Neither party has questioned my 
proposal to award Mr S £250 to compensate him for the way he was treated. So I wont 
change or comment on it any further.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Avantia Insurance Limited to pay £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman