DRN-3994816
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about Sainsburys Bank Plcs handling of their personal loan 
account.
All references to Sainsburys Bank also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What I cant consider
In response to our investigator, Mr and Mrs S have reiterated that Sainsburys Bank have 
ignored their complaint  and have failed to send them a final response to their complaint.
The extent of our powers, as set by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, is set out 
in the dispute resolution section of the regulators handbook of rules and guidelines. This is 
commonly referred to as DISP and the handbook can be found online.
There are several factors that determine whether we can consider a complaint, ranging from 
where the activity took place (our territorial jurisdiction) to whether the activity complained 
about is something we can investigate.
Regulated activities are a specified list of activities that the Financial Conduct Authority 
regulate and authorise financial businesses to carry out.  I wont repeat the full list here as it 
contains many activities. But having considered that list it doesnt include complaint 
handling. As the activity isnt one the regulator authorises and it isnt an otherwise covered 
activity under the rules, I cant consider this aspect in my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Sainsburys Bank have provided details of internal records which show Mr S updated 
his address details online. However, it doesnt show Mrs Ss details were updated at 
the same time.
I appreciate it wouldve been concerning for Mr and Mrs S to discover letters and 
statements had been sent to their old address. But when address details are 
updated, it needs to be done for each individual. This isnt unusual and its set out in 
the terms of the agreement. So, I dont think Sainsburys Bank have acted 
unreasonably here.
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs S said they cant get through to Sainsburys Bank by 
phone. But if they are struggling to contact Sainsburys Bank in this way it has 
suggested they also have the option to register Mrs S for online banking, if she hasnt 
already, and change the address that way. I do not think this is unreasonable.
So, for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman