DRN-3593046
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with National Savings & Investments response after it repeatedly 
requested he repay money it credited to his bank account in error, when he had already 
returned it.
What happened
NS&I mistakenly paid £1,265.62 into Mr Hs current account in August 2020. He returned the 
money in September 2020, but NS&I wrote to him in November 2021 asking for the money 
to be repaid and placing a block on his account. Mr H therefore complained, NS&I sent £50 
compensation. Through December 2021 Mr H worked with his bank to provide details of the 
transfer to NS&I. It awarded a further £25 to recognise his assistance. In January, February 
and March 2022 NS&I contacted Mr H again asking for the money as its recovery team had 
not been told the issue was resolved, nor had the block been removed. 
In April 2022 Mr H discovered the block on his account hadnt been lifted as he hadnt been 
receiving his prize payments. He raised a further complaint with NS&I. They accepted the 
block was added in error, removed it and paid £75 compensation.
Mr H says this series of errors and incompetence has created significant stress and work for 
him. He wants an apology and for NS&I to confirm it has the money and will no longer 
contact him about it.
Our investigator upheld Mr Hs complaint and said NS&I should pay an additional £100 
compensation. She said NS&I had acknowledged it had made a number of errors, and 
apologised. She felt a total payment of £250 fairly recognised the impact of its different 
failings on Mr H.
NS&I agreed to pay the additional £100.
Mr H disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. He says £250 
does not fairly reflect the worry caused and the time he had to spend on this. He expects 
£500 for his time and an additional payment to acknowledge the distress he suffered. Also, 
he suggests that NS&Is original error may potentially be a data protection breach, or equally 
the bank account details were mistyped and his account wasnt accessed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all of Mr Hs points and submissions carefully but in keeping with our role 
as an informal dispute resolution service, and as our rules allow, I will focus here on the 
issues material to his complaint. 
I am upholding Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
It is not in dispute that NS&I made a number of errors (to summarise, the original incorrect 
payment to Mr Hs bank account; not recognising that he had repaid that money and 
repeatedly chasing repayment; and blocking his account) that detrimentally impacted Mr H. 
NS&I has accepted this, apologised and paid £150 in total. What remains in dispute is what 
more NS&I needs to do to put thigs right.
I find the investigators recommendation to increase the award to £250 to be appropriate. To 
reach this decision I have considered the inconvenience Mr H experienced - he had to liaise 
with his bank to provide transfer reference details  NS&I needed, he had to flag that the 
block hadnt been removed and even after being told the issue was resolved he received 
chasing letters which required his attention. Whilst we consider inconvenience we dont 
make direct awards for time on say a per hour basis. 
I have also thought about the frustration and stress Mr H experienced, and over what period 
of time. I note the initial error happened in August 2020 and wasnt fully resolved until 
May/June 2022. However, for a large part of this elapsed time the issue lay dormant  until 
the letter in November 2021. And equally.as Mr H had retuned the money in September 
2020 I think he would have had some confidence that he did not owe the money. I do not 
say this to make light of the business errors or to underestimate the stress the repeated 
letters chasing payment would have caused. Mr H also said he has taken considerable time 
and effort to prepare this complaint, and whilst I dont doubt that, we cannot consider that in 
any award made.
To resolve his complaint Mr H also asked us to secure confirmation from NS&I that he has 
repaid the money and that it will no longer contact him about it. I understand he received a 
letter on 17 June 2022 that meets this requirement.   
More recently Mr H said there was a possibility that NS&Is original error may potentially be a 
data protection breach.  If Mr H wishes to report the issue as a data breach he should
contact the Information Commissioners Office (www.ico.org.uk).
Putting things right
NS&I must pay Mr H an additional £100 compensation.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Hs complaint. National Savings & Investments must put things right as 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman