DRN-1955210
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard won't refund a series of 
credit card payments made from his account to an online gambling firm. He says he neither 
made nor authorised those payments.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
brief summary here. 
Mr M disputes several payments totalling £1,500 made to an online gambling firm. The 
transactions occurred in the early hours of one morning in February 2020. 
Mr M contacted Barclaycard to inform it that he hadn't made any of the payments and to 
seek a refund. Barclaycard looked into what Mr M had told it had happened but concluded 
that Mr M must have made the payments himself. It noted that the correct card details had 
been used and evidence provided by the merchant confirmed Mr Ms genuine details had 
been used to create a gambling account. It also added that the IP address used to register 
and make payments on the gambling account, was the same IP address Mr M regularly 
used to access his account online. Barclaycard also said Mr M had used a similar merchant 
a few days earlier  which Mr M had confirmed as genuine. On this basis it concluded that 
the disputed transactions had been carried out by Mr M himself. 
As Barclaycard didn't agree to a refund Mr M referred the matter to this service, where one 
of our investigators considered it. He too concluded that it was more likely than not that Mr M 
had been responsible for the transactions he was disputing and didn't recommend that 
Barclaycard refund them. Mr M didn't accept the investigator's view and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, however, I've reached 
the same overall conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. I appreciate 
this will come as a disappointment to Mr M but please let me explain why.
The regulation that is relevant when considering Mr Ms complaint in relation to the disputed 
transactions is the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs2017). Under the PSRs2017 
banks are required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction - where its customer 
didnt make or authorise payment(s) themselves. There are some exceptions in the 
regulations, but none Ive needed to consider or that have had an impact on the decision Im 
making here. So, when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones 
fraud complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer made the payment(s) 
themselves or allowed them to be made. If were satisfied that they did, then we generally 
wouldnt ask the bank to refund them.So, I need to come to a view about whether or not I think Mr M authorised the payment. 
Looking at all the facts of this case, I cant know for certain exactly whats happened. I wasnt 
present at the time when the disputed transactions took place or when the preceding and 
ensuing events occurred. So, in situations like these I need to decide a case on what I think 
is more likely than not to have happened. To help me decide this Ive considered what Mr M 
has told us and the information he has provided about the events leading up to the disputed 
transactions. I have also taken into consideration what Barclaycard have said and all the 
other evidence surrounding the transactions before reaching my decision.
From what Ive seen it remains unclear whether Mr M fell asleep in his car or whether he 
was attacked outside his home. By his own admission all he has consistently recalled is 
reaching home after work at around 11.00pm and then waking up in his car the following 
morning at around 7.00am. He says the contents of his wallet were emptied out on the 
passenger seat and his mobile phone on the floor between the passenger seat and car door. 
The evidence provided by the merchant shows that during the eight-hour period Mr M has no 
recollection of, a new gambling account was registered using his correct personal details. 
And this in addition to all the disputed transactions took place from the same IP address he 
uses regularly to access his online account. Mr M says he neither made nor authorised 
these transactions. He believes these were carried out by an unknown third-party without his 
consent. But having carefully considered everything I don't believe that's what happened 
here.
From the evidence I have seen I am satisfied that the payments were authenticated, and I 
think on balance its more likely Mr M made them himself. I say this for the following reasons; 
The gambling account was opened using Mr Ms genuine details. Mr M has argued, 
and I agree it's possible of course that someone in possession of his wallet and his 
unlocked phone couldve had access to all his information and used it to open the 
account and carry out the transactions. But Im not persuaded that this is what has 
happened as all activity was carried out from the same IP address that Mr M 
regularly uses to log into his online account and given that the gambling account was 
registered at 1.25am and the first disputed transaction took place nearly 5 hours later 
at 6.31am Im not persuaded that an unknown third party who had attacked Mr M 
wouldve waited 5 hours outside Mr Ms home after registering an account before 
carrying out any transactions. 
 
Usually youd expect a fraudster to make the most of having access to the card 
details in the shortest amount of time to maximise their gain before the fraud is 
identified and the card blocked. So, on balance Im not persuaded that the activity 
matches what Id typically expect to see of fraudulent use nor am I convinced 
someone who had attacked Mr M wouldve waited around risking getting caught.
 
I also cannot see the benefit to an unknown third party of spending Mr Ms funds by 
registering a gambling account in his name, using his card  as any winnings would 
be payable to Mr M, not the third-party. 
 
I also note that Mr M had made payments to a similar gambling site a couple of days 
before the disputed transactions took place. These had been made using the same 
IP address and followed a similar pattern. Whilst I dont consider either of those 
matters as particularly conclusive in themselves, but combined with the other matters 
I've mentioned, they are relevant.  
Similarly, the fact that Mr M has not provided anything to support that the attack was 
reported to the police on its own isnt conclusive. But it is not irrelevant either and, 
taking account of it alongside other matters Ive mentioned above Im not satisfied 
that an unknown third party carried out the payments without Mr Ms consent.
 
For the reasons Ive detailed above, I think that the most likely explanation here is that Mr M 
carried out the transactions himself. In the circumstances, it wouldn't be fair to require 
Barclaycard to refund them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require Barclays Bank UK PLC to take any further action to 
resolve Mr M's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman