DRN-2832056
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with the way Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) handled a claim
made on her travel insurance policy.
Any references to URV include its claim handlers and costs containment agents. And 
although Mrs W is being represented in this complaint, Ive referred to her throughout as she 
is the policyholder.
What happened
Mrs W had the benefit of a single trip gold travel insurance policy, underwritten by URV, 
which she took out in June 2019 to cover a trip to the USA for around two months starting 
mid-July 2019 (the policy). 
In August 2019, whilst abroad, Mrs W received medical attention at a medical facility for 
which she was invoiced.
There were four invoices: 
- The medical facilitys invoice in the sum of $2675.40 (invoice 1);
- The physicians invoice in the sum of $811 (invoice 2); 
- An invoice for radiology in the sum of $287 (invoice 3) and
- An invoice for a wrist support in the sum of $150 (invoice 4).
Mrs W made a claim under the policy to cover her medical costs. 
Towards the end of 2019, Mrs W started to receive letters requesting payment of the 
outstanding amounts. URV was notified of this. 
URV emailed Mrs W reassuring her that she wasnt liable for the invoices and provided a 
declaration for her to sign and return to enable it to contact the debt collectors to request that 
it correspond directly with URV. The email address was incorrect, so Mrs W didnt receive 
this email. She continued to receive communications chasing the outstanding amounts until 
the declaration was resent to her for signature in March 2020  which she promptly signed 
and returned to URV.
Meanwhile, URV had already considered the amounts charged and initially decided that it 
wasnt going to pay invoices 1 and 2 in full. It wrote to the medical provider in around 
February 2020 saying it will pay just over $1,000 in respect of invoice 1. And around $187 in 
respect of invoice 2. It requested bank details so that payment could be made. URV didnt 
receive all details it required to make payment. In March 2020, URV also received invoice 4. 
At the end of May 2020, Mrs W raised a complaint to our Service about the non-payment of 
invoices. After our Service notified URV of her concerns, it issued a final response letter to 
Mrs W in August 2020 reiterating the amounts it had decided to pay in respect of invoices 1 
and 2. And confirming it would be paying invoices 3 and 4 in full. 
URV set out its position as to why it felt the amounts it was seeking to pay in order to settle 
invoices 1 and 2 were reasonable. And URV again explained that Mrs W had no financial 
liability for the invoiced amounts.
It offered Mrs W £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she experienced as 
a result of receiving letters chasing her for the invoiced amounts, not providing her with 
adequate reassurances and not registering her complaint - meaning her concerns werent 
addressed as they shouldve been.
Later in August 2020, URV confirmed to our Service that it was overturning its original 
decision made to challenge the invoiced amounts and it would be arranging for all four 
invoices to be paid in full. URV also maintained its offer to pay Mrs W £400 in compensation. 
URV sent payment to the various providers shortly thereafter in full settlement of 
invoices 1 - 4.
Our investigator partially upheld Mrs Ws complaint. She said URV shouldve paid the 
invoices earlier than it did. She recommended URV pay Mrs W £600 for the distress and 
inconvenience shed experienced because of the way in which URV handled her claim made 
under the policy. 
URV agreed with our investigators recommendation. Mrs W didnt think £600 fairly 
compensated her for the distress and inconvenience shed experienced.  
Her complaint has now been passed to me to look at everything afresh and decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, in her view dated May 2021, the 
relevant industry rules and guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The payment of invoices
Im satisfied URV has now paid the invoices in full. URV has provided evidence of cheques 
that have been issued for the full amount of the invoices. Its also given us covering letters 
showing that cheques were sent to various providers. And from what Ive seen, Im satisfied 
that correspondence from the debt collectors has ceased. 
So, Ive first considered whether URVs initial decision to look to pay only a proportion of 
invoices 1 and 2 was fair and reasonable. Based on what Ive seen in this particular case, 
and for reasons Ill go on to explain, I dont think it was.
As a matter of general legal principle, URV is bound to indemnify Mrs W against losses 
covered by the policy as and when the amount of her loss (here the amount of Mrs Ws 
liability to the healthcare provider) has been ascertained. 
The policy terms say that URV covers customary and reasonable fees or charges for
necessary emergency treatment to be paid outside of your home country for medical,
surgical, hospital services. The policy terms also allow for URV to take over and deal 
with in your name the defence/settlement of any claim made under the policy. But that isnt 
an unqualified right and URV still need to act fairly and reasonably when exercising that 
term. URV accepted ultimate liability for Mrs Ws treatment and sums properly due under the 
policy. Its original position wasnt that Mrs W shouldnt have been charged for certain 
treatment  or shouldnt be paid at all. Its position was that the amounts charged in invoices 
1 and 2 were inflated and unreasonably excessive. 
URV sought to rely on the Congressional guidelines (the guidelines) to support the initial 
amounts it was going to pay in respect of invoices 1 and 2.
The guidelines are issued annually by the USA government. I understand that they set out 
the suggested rates of payment for medical procedures and treatment and apply to certain 
USA residents that qualify for Medicare. URV uses the guidelines as a benchmark when 
deciding whether the amounts charged are reasonable. It says it then pays a certain 
percentage above this.
But I havent been shown anything to persuade me that the guidelines establish a valid 
benchmark for the fair market value of services provided outside the US Medicare/Medicaid 
systems to which they relate. 
Although, URV has provided us with a spreadsheet which shows the procedural code 
relating to Mrs Ws hospital visit in August 2019 and payment rates, this table isnt cross-
referenced to the guidelines or verifiable against any other costs information. So, Im not 
persuaded that the items charged for on the invoices are equivalent to those drawn by URV 
from the guidelines or correspond to figures for the US state where Mrs W was treated.  
Further, URV hasnt offered any explanation as to why it took the decision in early 2020 that 
it would only be looking to pay a proportion of invoice 1 and 2 but subsequently decided in 
late August 2020 that it would be paying those invoices in full. I cant see that anything 
happened for it to have departed from its position. For example, it hadnt engaged in any 
meaningful dialogue or negotiations with the medical provider or debt collectors about the 
basis of the amounts being charged. 
So, Im not convinced the amounts charged in invoices 1 and 2 were unreasonably 
excessive or out of line with what might be charged for non-American residents or those who 
dont have Medicare. And I dont think the amounts URV was looking to pay to settle 
invoices 1 and 2 in or around February 2020 were reasonable.
The issue with obtaining bank details from the medical provider
Even if it had decided to make full payment earlier than it did, Ive thought about whether 
URV were prevented from doing so for reasons outside of its control. 
Im satisfied that URV did request the medical providers bank details in early 2020 but it 
didnt receive all the information it says it needed to make payment. I can see that it did 
follow this up. 
However, when it didnt get a response within a reasonable timeframe, Im satisfied that it 
shouldve reasonably done more to proactively try to make payment. For example, I think it 
wouldve been reasonable in the circumstances of this case for it to have contacted the debt 
collectors directly to request the required bank details. 
I also note that the medical provider had been requesting payment by cheque. Although 
URV says payment by cheque is a last resort, it did end up using this method of payment 
when it hadnt heard back from the medical facility after several months and after Mrs W had 
brought her complaint to our Service. Having not received the details it needed, Im satisfied that it wouldve been reasonable in this particular case to have made payment by cheque 
sooner.
The way in which Mrs Ws claim was handled
URV has a duty to deal with claims promptly and fairly, and its required to act with due skill, 
care and diligence, paying due regard to Mrs Ws interests and treating her fairly. 
For the reasons set out above, I dont think URV did this when it initially took the decision to 
only pay part of the invoiced amounts. 
Further, Im persuaded that there were aspects of the claim that URV shouldve handled 
better including sending the declaration to the right email address in January 2020. If it had 
done this, Im persuaded that Mrs W wouldve promptly signed and returned the declaration 
to URV, as she did when it was resent in Mach 2020. This is likely to have reduced the 
contact Mrs W and her son received from the medical provider and debt collectors, chasing 
payment of the outstanding invoices.
The email dated January 2020 also attached a cost containment guide and she was asked 
to not engage with the debt collectors but to forward any correspondence to URV if they 
continued to correspond with Mrs W. As she didnt receive this email, she wouldnt have 
received this reassurance. And Im satisfied that she wouldve reasonably felt that URV 
werent looking to assist with the communications shed received from the debt collectors. 
And whilst I accept that URV was chasing for bank details to pay a sum which it felt was fair 
in settlement of invoices 1 and 2 between January and March 2020, it does have an 
obligation to handle complaints fairly and promptly. For reasons set out above, I think it 
reasonably shouldve made full payment of the invoices promptly after receiving the excess 
payment due under the policy from Mrs W towards the end of 2019. If it had done, Mrs W 
wouldve been spared a considerable amount of distress and inconvenience. 
The impact on Mrs W:
Im satisfied URV put Mrs W to a significant amount of unnecessary distress, inconvenience 
and worry by what it did wrong in this particular case. Im satisfied that £600 fairly reflects the 
distress and inconvenience Mrs W has been through as a result of what URV did wrong
URV has accepted in its final response letter that it shouldve registered Mrs Ws complaint 
when shed expressed dissatisfaction in an email dated the 17 April 2020 about the way in 
which her claim was being handled. It also accepted that it didnt provide the necessary 
assurances as it shouldve. 
I accept that this wouldve caused Mrs W a considerable amount of distress and she 
wouldve felt like her concerns werent being taken seriously by URV. I accept this wouldve 
been frustrating and upsetting in the circumstances.
URV also accepted in its final response letter that Mrs W experienced distress and 
inconvenience as a result of receiving communications from debt collectors. Although, URV 
said this was outside of its control, it recognised the impact of Mrs W having to receive and 
forward on such correspondence. And this was through no fault of her own. 
Im also satisfied that Mrs W experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of knowing 
that:
her son has received letters from debt collectors when he was going through a 
personally difficult time and fearing that non-payment of invoices may impact his 
credit rating because they shared the same surname.her daughter was unnecessarily inconvenienced by having to regularly contact URV 
 particularly during the early part of 2020  to request updates and in an attempt to 
actively progress Mrs Ws claim.
Mrs W has told us that she suffers from hypertension and thats supported by the schedule 
of insurance setting out the medical conditions she disclosed at the time of taking out the 
policy. She says because of this and her age, when she becomes distressed, she gets 
confused, frightened and her blood pressure increases further. She is then prone to chest 
pains and dizziness. She says the threatening letters from the medical provider and notices 
from the debt collectors caused her distress, confusion and increased her blood pressure. 
She says shed never been in debt, so it was particularly distressing to receive demand 
letters.
I havent seen any medical evidence to support that the distress she felt was affecting her in 
this way, but I accept that receiving such letters wouldve been stressful and this wouldve 
exacerbated somewhat by her high blood pressure. However, once she received assurances 
from URV in Mach 2020 that she was not responsible for the invoices and it would contact 
the debt collectors with her signed declaration (to forward all communications to it in future), 
I think its reasonable to assume that some of the stress shed been feeling about receiving 
debt collection letters is likely to have reduced somewhat. 
Mrs W says her son and daughter both spent a considerable and unnecessary amount of 
time assisting her in connection with her clam. Weve been provided with her daughters 
hourly rates and she says her sons hourly rates are higher than that. Ive also considered 
her concerns about her sons credit file having been impacted by the delay in paying the 
invoiced amounts. However, as her son and daughter didnt have the benefit of the policy  
and so werent customers of URV  our Service doesnt have any power to award 
compensation to them. But as set out above, Im satisfied that this wouldve had an indirect 
impact on Mrs W and the inconvenience and stress they experienced as a result of what 
URV did wrong in this case, wouldve, in all likelihood, exacerbated Mrs Ws worry and 
distress.
Ive also taken into account what Mrs W says about going back to the USA in 2020 and 
having to attend hospital for urgent treatment in around July 2020. She says that as the 
invoices hadnt been settled by URV by this stage, it was difficult getting the same medical 
facility to accept the travel insurance she had in place at that time  as that insurance had 
also been underwritten by URV. As a result, her son drove her to another hospital around 
one hours drive away and personally paid for her to have treatment there.
Although Ive seen no evidence that the hospital did decline to treat Mrs W because there 
were outstanding amounts on her account, Mrs W has been consistent with what shes said 
about that. And I accept what she says. I can see why this wouldve exacerbated the stress 
Mrs W was feeling at an already worrying and uncomfortable time. 
I know Mrs W says that the treatment she needed in July 2020 was urgent, and I can of 
course understand why her son decided to pay for the treatment himself. But theres no 
indication from URVs system notes or from what Mrs W has told us that URV was notified of 
the medical facilitys position at the time. If it had been, URV wouldve been given the 
opportunity to contact the medical facility to discuss the issue further and then advise Mrs W 
of her options accordingly.
So, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to direct URV to pay the costs of the 
treatment she had in July 2020 as part of this particular complaint  and as a result of not 
paying the invoiced amounts, in full, earlier than it did. However, if she hasnt already done so, Mrs W is free to contact URV separately about the possibility of making a claim under the 
travel insurance she had in place at the time for treatment costs incurred around July 2020.
Mrs W has also referred to other cases where URV has failed to pay a medical providers 
costs in full when a policyholder has required medical attention abroad. And complaints that 
have been brought to our Service about this. However, Ive focused on the individual 
circumstances of this complaint when making findings. Our Service doesnt look to punish or 
fine a business. Our role is to look at each individual complaint and consider whether a 
business has done something wrong. And if it has, to consider the impact and decide what 
the business should do to fairly and reasonably put things right. 
 
Putting things right
Within 28 days from the date on which we tell it that Mrs W accepts our final decision I direct 
URV to pay Mrs W £600 in total, as compensation for distress and inconvenience.
  
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ws complaint and direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to put things right by 
doing what Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman