DRN-2689712
The complaint
Mr C and Miss U complain that, in 2011, Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold 
them a packaged bank account (PBA). 
What happened
In 2011, Mr C and Miss U returned to the UK after several years living abroad. They opened 
an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA). This was a PBA which cost £12.50 per month. 
The benefits included worldwide travel insurance, car breakdown cover, mobile phone 
insurance, and card protection. Also, if an overdraft had been agreed, it would be fee-free up 
to £300. This compared with Bank of Scotlands standard charge of £1 per day for using an 
overdraft if you didnt have an URCA.  
One of our adjudicators said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr C and Miss U didnt 
agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr C and Miss U say that:
 due to us not having any credit history the Ultimate Reward account was the only 
one that would offer us an overdraft facility. We were not told about any other 
account options or advised that there was a fee free alternative account that would 
be suitable for our needs at the time.
They also say:
Due to our circumstances of moving back to the UK and not having any accounts 
of credit facilities, we were told that this type of account would enable us to build 
up a credit score which would be important for us in the future when we came to 
look at a mortgage etc 
We were told that we needed to login to the benefits page and register for the 
products. We were also told that is how we would access our credit report as part 
of the account - which would help us to build up a credit score in the UK
A significant problem is that this all happened about ten years ago, and it wouldnt be 
surprising if someone didnt remember the detail of everything that happened that long 
ago. So it may not be fair for me to rely just on what Mr C and Miss U now remember as 
happening. 
I can see that one explanation is that Mr C and Miss U have remembered events, and 
what they were told, accurately  and, if they were misled, this would have been wrong: it 
was possible to have a non-PBA account with an overdraft, and such an account would 
similarly have helped build up a credit score. 
But I could also see another equally plausible explanation. This is that, first, the bank did 
say Mr C and Miss U couldnt have an overdraft straight away because they didnt have a 
credit history. This would be quite common and reasonable, as the bank wouldnt know 
how risky it would be for it to lend money to Mr C and Miss U. 
It is possible that the bank also said that, if Mr C and Miss U could show they conducted 
their bank account properly, they would then be considered for an overdraft  and this 
would all benefit their credit score. And it is possible that the bank pointed out an URCA 
would mean no overdraft fees for the first £300, which could be useful if and when Mr C 
and Miss U had an overdraft agreed. And I think it likely that most people would have 
known they could get at least a straightforward bank account, to transact their daily life, 
without having to pay fees  it would normally have been reasonable for a bank to 
assume this knowledge.
But the bank saying all this wouldnt, in itself, be wrong. It wouldnt have been the same 
as saying that Mr C and Miss U must take out the URCA as the only way to get an 
overdraft and to improve their credit score.  
And it wouldnt be fair to make Bank of Scotland prove it didnt act wrongly in the way 
Mr C and Miss U now recall. Instead, fairly, I would need reasonable evidence to show 
that it probably did do something wrong. But I cant see that I have that evidence. 
Because of the lapse of time, I cant rely on the accuracy of what Mr C and Miss U now 
remember; and, as Ive said, its quite plausible that the bank did say something very 
similar to what they how remember, but not such that it would have been wrong for the 
bank to say it. 
So, overall, there isnt enough evidence for me to fairly uphold Mr C and Miss Us 
complaint on this point. 
I dont think Bank of Scotland recommended the URCA, in the sense of telling Mr C and 
Miss U it had assessed their circumstances and was advising them that the URCA would 
be a good fit for their situation . So I dont need to decide whether it would have been a 
good recommendation  though I can see that many of the benefits would anyway have 
been potentially useful to Mr C and Miss U, judging from what theyve told us. 
Bank of Scotland did though need to give reasonable information about the PBA, and I 
cant now be sure that it did. So Ive considered whether full information would have made 
a difference to whether Mr C and Miss U took the PBA. But I cant say that full information 
would have made a difference: several of the benefits were potentially usable by Mr C and 
Miss U, and theyve confirmed they were aware of the fee. 
Overall, I cant say that the PBA was mis-sold. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr C and Miss Us complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss U 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman