DRN-4481368
The complaint
Miss A has complained about her car insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc because it agreed to 
consider repairing her car, but still had it collected by its salvage agent. Also because she 
was not provided with a courtesy car.
What happened
Miss As car was damaged whilst it was parked. She was pregnant at the time, made a claim 
to AXA and asked for a courtesy car to be provided. AXA said it would only offer a courtesy 
car whilst the car was being repaired. Its salvage agents were due to collect the car for 
inspection, Miss A asked that AXAs repair network collect the car instead and AXA agreed  
although it confirmed a courtesy car would still only be provided if her car was repairable.
That same day the car was collected. And Miss A then found out it was AXAs salvage agent 
which had collected it. Not the repair network as agreed. The car was later deemed a total 
loss. AXA settled Miss As outstanding finance on the vehicle and paid her the balance of a 
total loss settlement. Miss A felt the car was only found to be a total loss because the 
salvage agent had collected it in contravention of the agreement shed reached with AXA. 
She thought that if things had happened as agreed, shed have been given a courtesy car 
and her car would have been repaired. She particularly thought that was the case because 
her car was subsequently sold on by AXA and passed an MOT. Miss A noted she had not 
been given an opportunity to keep the car. 
AXA said that Miss A had not been entitled to a courtesy car under her policy. It said it had 
cancelled the salvage agents instructions as agreed  but it was already on its way to collect 
the car. It didnt think that had changed anything though  the damage would always have 
meant the car was a total loss. Which would also have meant no courtesy car would have 
been provided. Miss A complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our Investigator didnt think AXA had done anything wrong. She noted AXA could choose 
how to settle claims and took into account the damage to Miss As car. She didnt think it 
having subsequently passed an MOT meant AXAs decision to view the car as a total loss 
was unfair. She felt the detail of the damage meant the claim outcome wouldnt have 
changed even if the repair network had collected the car. She felt Miss A, if shed wanted to, 
could have asked to keep the car. Our Investigator noted Miss A had said shed had trouble 
getting through to AXA on the phone. But she felt that was the normal type of inconvenience 
which comes with having to make a claim. 
Miss A said AXA had failed to provide the correct service when the incorrect agent collected 
her car. She maintained that it, having passed the MOT, meant it cant have been an 
unsalvageable total loss. Miss A said AXA had handled the calls with her poorly.
Our Investigator confirmed her view on the complaint had not changed. She said that Miss A 
had not complained before about how AXA had handled calls with her. She said that would 
have to be raised with AXA in the first instance. Miss As complaint was referred to me for an 
Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, with regret for the disappointment I know this will cause Miss A, Im not 
upholding her complaint. 
AXA did agree to have its repair network collect Miss As car. That didnt happen, and 
instead its salvage agent collected the car. I can see that would be worrying and frustrating 
for Miss A. However, having reviewed the timings of what happened, I can see that when 
AXA agreed to change its agent, and cancelled the original instruction to the salvage 
company, the latter were already on their way. But given the way in which companies work, 
Im satisfied AXA wouldnt have known that. I think this error was not caused by AXA, but 
rather a convolution of circumstance.   
In any event, even if that had not happened, I think Miss As car would still have been found 
to be a total loss. I know she thinks it logically cant have been, due to the MOT. That, rather, 
the nature of the agent collecting it has determined the course of the claim. But that is simply 
not the case. 
As our Investigator explained, an MOT tests whether the car, regarding certain road safety 
issues, is safe to drive. A total loss consideration by an insurer takes into account factors 
other than safety. For example, a car might be safe to drive, compliant with all road safety 
requirements, but have extensive damage to its paintwork, requiring hours of costly 
reinstatement work. Given the cost of that reinstatement work, even though the damage in 
question does not make the car unsafe to drive, and even if it would still pass an MOT, an 
insurer might, taking into account its age and value, declare it a total loss.      
 
Here, I note that AXA had consulted with the repair network, and it appeared it had been 
trying to find a garage to repair the car  but three had refused the work, one noting that in 
addition to damage to both drivers side doors and the front wing, there was a bent or broken 
axle. I can see that the repairs were estimated at a few thousand pounds  more than the 
value AXA attributed to the car. The fact that three garages had refused the repair might also 
suggest, costs aside, it was felt to not be a repairable proposition. And I note that the repair 
networks view, taking account of the age of the car and the damage, was that it was a total 
loss. So I think if the repair network had collected the car, that would only have delayed the 
total loss decision  it wouldnt have changed the outcome. I dont think Miss As car would 
ever have been considered repairable and sent for fixing, such that a courtesy car would 
likely have been provided. 
I know AXA didnt give Miss A an option to keep her car. But I dont see that she asked it if 
she could do so, or even indicated to it she might like to. If she had asked, I think AXA would 
have given her the option. I dont think AXA did anything wrong in the way it handled this. 
I can see that Miss A had to call AXA, that sometimes she had trouble getting through. But 
Im satisfied that was the type of inconvenience that came naturally with having to make a 
claim. It wasnt something caused by AXA having done something wrong. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against AXA Insurance UK Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman