DRN-2281298
Complaint
Mr A is unhappy Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) recorded a missed payment on his 
credit file. He says he tried to get in contact several times to make the payment in question 
but Capital Ones telephone payment service being affected by the pandemic meant he was 
unable to pay in time. 
Background
Mr A had a credit card account with Capital One which had been restricted  meaning the 
card couldnt be used anymore and Mr A was simply repaying what he owed  in 2018. In 
April 2020, Mr A missed paying at least the monthly minimum payment set out in his     
March 2020 statement. Mr A made a payment to clear the outstanding balance in full on       
1 May 2020. But he was unhappy at the missed payment Capital One recorded on his credit 
file and complained about this. 
Capital One considered Mr As complaint but didnt uphold it. It said the payment was late 
and it had an obligation to record this to credit reference agencies. Mr A remained 
dissatisfied and referred his case to us. The complaint was then considered by one of our 
adjudicators who also thought it shouldnt be upheld. Mr A disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to consider his case.    
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision.
It isnt in dispute that Mr As April 2020 payment wasnt made in time. Mr A says that this 
was because he was only able to make payment by phone and wasnt able to get through to 
to anyone when he tried calling. Mr A has provided a call log to support what hes said. On 
the other hand, Capital One says it has no record of any attempt by Mr A to get in contact 
and, in any event, Mr A had other alternative payment methods. 
Ive looked at the information Mr A has provided. Mr A attempted two calls, which appear to 
have been unsuccessful, on 30 April 2020 before he was able to speak to someone at 
Capital One on 1 May 2020. Mr A says he called on a number of occasions prior to this. But 
Capital Ones records show it received a call from Mr A on 12 March 2020, which was before 
his statement for the missed payment was issued and that there was no further contact until 
it attempted to call Mr A  presumably about the missed payment - on 30 April 2020. The 
records then show the call Mr A successfully made on 1 May 2020 when he was able to 
make payment. 
So Im afraid that the evidence both Mr A and Capital One have provided dont corroborate 
Mr A having called to make his payment in the period between his statement being issued 
on 27 March 2020 and his payment being due on 22 April 2020. 
I accept its possible the records Ive been provided with are incomplete. But Capital Ones 
records do appear to tie up with what Mr A has provided. And as Mr A has only been able to 
provide evidence of having attempted to call Capital One after his payment was due and he 
already had a missed/late payment not too long before, Im afraid that I cant reasonably 
conclude it is more likely than not Mr A attempted to make payment prior to 30 April 2020 at 
the earliest. 
 
I appreciate that the pandemic caused Capital One to make some changes to its opening 
times and that its phone lines may well have been busier than usual. Theres also some 
suggestion that there may have been other methods of payments available to Mr A. But, in 
any event, Mr A was able to get through some ten days after his payment was due and when 
the same opening hours were in operation. 
So Ive not seen enough here to be able to conclude its more likely than not Capital Ones 
actions were the reason for Mr As payment not being made on time. And as Mr As payment 
wasnt made on time, I dont think that it was unfair for Capital One to notify the credit 
reference agencies that this was the case.
Overall I dont think that Capital One did anything wrong or that it treated Mr A unfairly. So 
Im not upholding his complaint. I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing. But I 
hope that Mr A will understand the reasons and at least feel that his concerns have been 
listened to. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman