DRN-2790792
The complaint
Mrs A complains Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (trading as Argos) have not 
done enough to help her with her financial difficulties on her store card account.
What happened
In 2020, Mrs A contacted Argos to say she was having financial difficulties. She did this via a 
debt charity. 
The debt charity proposed an affordable payment for Mrs A, which Argos accepted. Mrs A 
was unhappy that Argos were still adding interest and charges to her account though. Mrs A 
complained that Argos wouldnt freeze interest and charges on her account. 
Argos responded to Mrs As complaint by saying based on Mrs As current circumstances 
and her repayment offer  they wouldnt freeze the interest applicable to her account. 
Mrs A wasnt happy with this response so referred her complaint to our service.
Our Investigator considered Mrs As complaint. He said, in summary, he could see that 
Argos had accepted Mrs As repayment offer and that this amount was reducing her 
balance, despite the fact that interest and charges were still being applied to her account. 
Because of that, he thought Argos werent acting unfairly.
 
Mrs A still didnt think it was fair for Argos to be applying interest and charges to her account. 
As Mrs A didnt accept, the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a customer is in financial difficulties, wed expect the financial business to treat their 
customer positively and sympathetically. What this means in practice depends on each 
customers circumstances and can include suspending interest and charges temporarily or 
altogether. But theres no obligation on businesses to do this in every case.
 
When Mrs A first contacted Argos about her financial difficulties, I see they placed her 
account on hold for 30 days to give her time to speak with the debt charity. Which I find fair 
as an initial response to Mrs A letting them know about her difficulties.
 
Argos considered Mrs As repayment offer. They have an automated process they use to 
decide whether to suspend interest and charges in cases involving repayment arrangements 
and financial difficulties. Im satisfied Argos followed their usual process and I can see Mrs 
As agreed repayment amount covers the interest charged each month and a small amount 
of the capital she owes. So I dont think Argos have done anything wrong by not agreeing to 
suspend interest and charges on Mrs As account. 
Mrs A says her balance is still going up though which is making her financial situation worse 
and causing her stress. Having reviewed her statements, I can see when the agreed 
payment is made the balance is reducing. However, it seems from the statements that no 
payment was made in November 2020, which did then increase the balance. Mrs A is 
reducing her balance each month, albeit by a small amount, by making the payments agreed 
with Argos.
Ive also considered whether Argos are applying the interest correctly. The terms and 
conditions of Mrs As account set out when interest will be charged. And Im satisfied, having 
reviewed Mrs As statements, that the interest charges are being applied in line with the 
terms and conditions of her account. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Argos are entitled to apply interest to Mrs As account and are not 
treating her unfairly by doing so in these particular circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman