DRN-3459852
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the advice she was given by when she called American Express 
Services Europe Limited to make a claim on her group travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs S benefits from a group travel insurance policy as an American Express supplementary 
cardholder. She was on holiday and sent some luggage ahead of her. But when she arrived, 
the luggage hadnt.
So, she called American Express to see what could be done to help her and make a claim. 
Mrs S says she was told she could spend up to £300 on essential items per person on the 
trip. She did this and spent a total of £1,300.
But, when she made a claim to the insurers of the policy, it was declined. The insurer said 
Mrs S wasnt covered for baggage that wasnt with her. So, it said she wasnt covered for the 
lost baggage shed sent in advance.
Mrs S wasnt happy with this and complained to American Express. She said she was told 
shed be covered up to £300 per person and left the call with the impression shed get what 
she spent back. Shes said she wouldnt have spent the money if she wasnt going to get it 
back.
American Express didnt agree. It said it told Mrs S to check what she was covered for, and 
to keep receipts should she need to claim for anything shed spent on essential items.
Mrs S remained unhappy and brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked 
into it and didnt recommend it be upheld. They didnt think American Express had mislead 
Mrs S.
Mrs S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs Ss complaint is about the advice she was given by American Express. My decision 
focusses on that. My decision doesnt touch on whether or not Mrs Ss insurer was acting 
fairly when it declined her claim.
Ive not been able to listen to the call in question because its no longer available. So, I cant 
say for certain what was discussed. But I can see that American Express has listened to it 
and made comment.
American Express says Mrs S was told to check her documents to see what she would be 
covered for, and to keep receipts if she needed to claim. It said it didnt tell Mrs S her claim 
would be covered, and that it wouldnt do this in any event, because that decision is for the 
insurers to make.
Mrs S on the other hand says she left the call with the impression shed be covered up to 
£300 per person.
While I dont doubt Mrs Ss impression after the call and understand why she feels misled, I 
dont think theres enough evidence to show that she was. Mrs S has acknowledged she 
wasnt told shed be 100% covered but thinks American Express should have been aware of 
the exclusion in the policy, made her aware of it and made it clearer she wasnt covered. I 
think Mrs S had enough information to know that there was a chance her claim wouldnt be 
covered and that the claim would need to be assessed in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy.
I also appreciate Mrs Ss point that she wouldnt have spent £1,300 without knowing she 
would be able to claim it back. But I think Mrs S would always have likely spent some money 
 because her luggage hadnt arrived. Perhaps she wouldnt have spent as much as she did, 
but I also have to consider that she had the benefit of what she spent the money on too.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman