DRN-4158419
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Urban Jungle Services Ltd renewed their policy and didnt 
provide a full refund when they later cancelled it.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C held a buildings and contents insurance policy administered by Urban Jungle. 
The policy was set to auto-renew with the new policy beginning on 27 January. Urban Jungle 
sent out two renewal notices letting Mr and Mrs C know of the new price and letting them 
know the policy would auto-renew.
But Mr and Mrs C found a different policy and put in a request to stop the auto-renew on 
26 January, the day before the new policy was due to start. They got confirmation the auto-
renewal process had been changed.
But Urban Jungle said the policy effectively auto-renewed on 26 January (to start the next 
day). It said it notified Mr and Mrs C on 26 January that the policy had renewed and sent out 
the documents. It says it made clear that if Mr and Mrs C didnt want to renew the policy, 
they needed to tell it at least four days before the policy was set to renew.
Some months after the policy renewed, Mr and Mrs C noticed and let Urban Jungle know. 
But it said because it only received notification after the 14-day cooling off period, Mr and 
Mrs C werent entitled to a full refund and would only receive a pro-rata refund based on how 
long they were on cover.
Mr and Mrs C werent happy with this and complained. But Urban Jungle didnt change its 
stance, so they brought their complaint to us.
One of our investigators recommended it be upheld. She didnt think Urban Jungle had 
made it clear enough that the policy had auto-renewed. She thought It needed to provide Mr 
and Mrs C a full refund.
Urban Jungle didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
The documentation makes it clear that Mr and Mrs C needed to give Urban Jungle at 
least four days notice if they didnt want the policy to auto-renew. They clearly didnt 
do this, only notifying Urban Jungle a day before the policy was due to renew.
At this point, Urban Jungle had in effect put the renewal in place and sent the 
documentation for the upcoming policy year  to start the following day. Im satisfied 
this information was clear.
But, when Mr and Mrs C notified Urban Jungle of the change, it confirmed that same 
day that the change had been made and the policy wouldnt auto-renew. Because 
the policy hadnt yet started  it was due to start the next day  I think Mr and Mr C 
had a reasonable expectation that the policy wouldnt renew as theyd requested.
Whats more, they were sent a revised schedule detailing the cover would start and 
end on the same day 26 January. I think this further adds to Mr and Mrs Cs 
reasonable expectation that the policy would not extend further than 26 January.  
I dont think it fair or reasonable to say that because this was then brought to Urban 
Jungles attention outside the 14-day cooling off period that they shouldnt be entitled 
to a full refund. 
Its clear they didnt want the policy to renew, and as above, I think the information 
provided gave them a reasonable expectation that it wouldnt renew. Had Urban 
Jungle been clearer, I think it highly likely Mr and Mrs C would have contacted them 
within the 14-day cooling off period and benefitted from a full refund.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. To put things right I require Urban 
Jungle Services Ltd to:
Provide a full refund for the policy (its entitled to deduct any refund its previously 
given relating to this policy). 8% interest should be added on to any payment it 
makes. Interest should be calculated from the date Mr and Mrs C paid the premium 
to the date Urban Jungle pays them this payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman