DRN-3559505
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that New India Assurance Company Limited (New India) charged him a 
cancellation fee when he cancelled his car insurance policy.
What happened
On 4 March 2021, Mr C purchased a car insurance policy through a broker for £520.59.
Shortly after, he submitted proof of his no claims discount but unfortunately it wasnt
accepted as the no claims discount was accrued on a fleet insurance policy.
As Mr Cs proof of no claims wasnt accepted, he asked to cancel his policy on 12 March
2021. He received a refund of £418.18 after a deduction of a £52.50 new business
arrangement fee, £45 cancellation fee and £4.91 for time on cover.
Unhappy with the refund amount, Mr C raised a complaint. The complaint was handled by
the administrators of the policy on behalf of New India  but for ease of reading Ill refer only
to New India in my decision.
Mr C said that he wasnt made aware of these fees, and neither was it made clear to him
that no claims discount on a fleet insurance policy wouldnt be accepted. He was also
dissatisfied with the customer service he received.
New India said that all fees are explained prior to the purchase of the policy and that the
cancellation fees have been applied correctly in line with the terms and conditions.
Our investigator said that Mr C had been charged a cancellation fee twice - £52.50 by the
broker and £45 by New India. He didnt think it was fair for Mr C to pay two cancellation fees
and felt that New India should refund the charge they applied of £45.
New India initially accepted the investigators recommendation, but then stopped engaging
with our service. Although New India or Mr C didnt ask for an ombudsmans decision, this is 
usually the next step in our process in these circumstances. Since the complaint couldnt be
resolved, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What I had provisionally decided  and why
I issued a provisional decision on 8 June 2020, and I made the following findings:
Firstly, I think its important to set out that Im only considering Mr Cs complaint 
about the cancellation fee of £45 in reaching my decision here. This is because as 
the insurer New India is responsible for this aspect of Mr Cs complaint.
Were considering Mr Cs concerns about the new business arrangement fee of 
£52.50 against the broker. This is because the new business arrangement fee isnt 
the same as a cancellation fee. It is a brokerage fee charged by the broker and not 
New India.
The broker sold the policy, so theyre also responsible for Mr Cs concerns about the 
sales process and the customer service issues he experienced when dealing with 
them.
As explained, these complaint points are being considered under a separate 
complaint with our service. And since its not relevant this complaint against New 
India, I wont be commenting on it here any further.
The regulations that apply to this complaint are set out in the Insurance Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS 7 explains that general insurance policies have a 14-day cooling off period. If 
a consumer cancels during this period, then they can be charged:
a pro-rata premium for the time the policy was in force; and
an administration fee which is proportionate to the service provided, with no 
element of profit.
Mr C purchased his policy on 4 March 2021 and cancelled his policy on 12 March 
2021. This was within the 14-day cooling off period. Since the policy was in force 
from 8 March 2021 until 12 March 2021, New India are entitled to charge Mr C a pro-
rata premium for this period, which appears to be correctly calculated at £4.91. So, I 
wont be asking New India to refund this.
A consumer can only be charged a fee for the administration involved in cancelling a 
policy if they were made aware of this while they were buying the policy.
Ive seen a screenshot of the page Mr C wouldve seen before he purchased the 
policy. This has hyperlinks to the terms and conditions, policy wording, policy 
information and privacy policy. Mr C had to tick a box confirm he agrees to the 
information in these documents before proceeding to click Buy now.
On page 2 of the terms and conditions, a table clearly sets out all the charges that 
may apply to Mr Cs policy. This explains that a £45 fee will be charged for 
cancellation within the 14 days from purchase, and if cancelled after 14 days, a £75 
fee would apply.
Im satisfied Mr C was reasonably made aware that a cancellation fee would apply if 
he cancelled the policy, and therefore they can charge him a fee for the 
administration involved.
Im afraid I cant fairly hold New India liable if Mr C didnt read the information before 
he ticked the box to confirm that he agreed and proceeded to purchase the policy.
As Ive explained above, New India can only charge Mr C a fee to cover the cost of 
setting up and cancelling the policy. However, they havent provided us with a 
breakdown of costs or an explanation to justify charging £45  which Id expect a 
business to be able to do.
Ive checked online to see what other providers charge as a proportionate 
administration fee for cancelling within the cooling off period. This typically tends to 
be around £25. But a business can charge more as the fee is proportionate to the 
service and costs incurred, which will be different from business to business.In the absence of evidence from New India to explain their costs, I cant fairly agree 
that the fee of £45 is proportionate to the service provided without any element of 
profit.
That said, it doesnt mean Mr C shouldnt be charged a fee at all. As explained, New 
India made it clear to him that a fee would apply to cancel the policy and they would 
have incurred some costs in the administration of the cancellation. Based on the 
available information and taking into account the likely administration costs involved 
in setting up and cancelling a policy, I think its fair and reasonable for New India to 
apply a fee of £25  the average fee for cancelling within the cooling off period  
instead of £45.
In summary, to put things right, New India should:
Refund Mr C £20; and
Add 8% simple interest per annum from 12 March 2021 until the date of 
settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further submissions. 
Mr C agreed with my findings and didnt have anything to add. New India havent responded 
within the deadline given.
Since the parties havent provided any further comments or information, there isnt anything 
else for me to consider. Im satisfied with the findings I reached in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
New India should:
Give Mr C a refund of £20; 
Add 8% simple interest* per annum from 12 March 2021 until the date of settlement.
*HM Revenue & Custom requires New India to deduct tax from this interest. New India must 
give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that New India Assurance Company Limited 
should settle the complaint in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman