DRN-4074261
Complaint
Mr G is unhappy with what Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has agreed to do to put things right 
after he complained about the charges on his overdraft.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Gs complaint and she told Lloyds that it should refund 
all the interest, fees and charges added to his account from November 2017 onwards as it 
ought to have been aware that Mr G was experiencing financial difficulty at this point.
Lloyds accepted our adjudicators view. But Mr G disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.  
Ive already separately explained to the parties why I cant look at what happened on Mr Gs 
account prior to November 2017. So this decision is only looking at whether what Lloyds has 
done to put things right in relation to the charges it added to Mr Gs account from November 
2017 onwards, is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr G is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint. 
Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
Lloyds has agreed that it ought to have realised that Mr G was struggling and that it 
shouldnt have added any interest, fees and charges to Mr Gs account from November 
2017. And it has agreed to refund all the interest, fees and charges added it to Mr Gs 
account from then in order to put things right. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. However, thats not possible in cases where funds that shouldnt have been advanced 
were advanced because typically those funds will have already been spent. 
So we have to look at a way of asking a business to put things right in a fair and reasonable 
way. And where a business provided, or continued to allow a consumer to use, a credit 
facility which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the 
consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges 
on that credit.
This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those 
interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year. Thats what Lloyds has 
agreed to do here, so it has agreed to do what Id normally expect a firm to do in these 
circumstances.
In this case, Mr G is likely to be left with an outstanding balance even though the credits hes 
made to his account have been factored in and hes been refunded all of the interest, fees 
and charges applied from November 2017. But while Mr G is likely to be left with an 
outstanding balance to repay and he might be unhappy with this, Lloyds has done what Id 
normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mr G believes that Lloyds should do more. As I understand it, hes unhappy at being left with 
a balance and the default thats been registered on his credit file.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr G has said. But all the interest, fees and charges Lloyds 
shouldnt have added have been removed from the overdraft. So all Mr G will be left with to 
repay are the funds which he used and benefitted from and crucially I dont agree that the 
interest, fees and charges have left him with a debt that he wouldnt otherwise have been left 
with. 
I now turn to Mr Gs credit file. Mr G is unhappy at the default Lloyds has recorded on his 
credit file. However, all parties are in agreement that Lloyds ought to have taken corrective 
action on Mr Gs overdraft by November 2017 at the latest. And this would have resulted in 
adverse action being recorded on Mr Gs account at this point. Lloyds has agreed to 
backdate the adverse information to November 2017 in line with this.
I think that going further than this and removing any adverse information here would mean 
me telling Lloyds it needs to refund the interest, fees and charges it added from November 
2017 because it should have known Mr G was unable to repay his overdraft but not reflect 
this on his credit file. And I think that it would be unfair to Lloyds and Mr G, unreasonable its 
logic and inaccurate if I asked Lloyds to amend Mr Gs credit file in this way  as that doesnt 
reflect what would more likely that not have, or did actually, happen here.
By asking Lloyds to remove any adverse information here, Id be asking it to record 
inaccurate information and telling it to record that Mr G was in a position to pay his overdraft 
balance in accordance with the terms and conditions, which for the reasons the complaint 
has been upheld, simply wasnt the case. 
I think that requiring Lloyds to amend Mr Gs credit file in the way hes suggested would be 
counterproductive and arguably not in Mr Gs best interests, or those of any potential lender. 
This is especially the case as Mr G was served with a final demand for payment and he was 
unable to repay what he owed at this stage. I know Mr G believes he wasnt given sufficient 
time to repay but he was in arrears for some time by this stage. And the time he was given 
was in line with the terms and conditions of his account and good industry practice. 
Having carefully thought about everything, including everything Mr G has told us, Im 
satisfied that backdating the default on Mr Gs account to November 2017, which reflects 
any period of allowing Mr G to bring the account up to date, is fair and reasonable here. So 
while I can understand why Mr G is disappointed to be left with a likely balance to repay and a default on his credit file, Im not satisfied that these are compelling reasons for me to 
depart from our usual approach here. 
Finally, Im also satisfied that Lloyds ought to have begun the process of taking corrective 
action in relation to Mr Gs overdraft earlier than it did, I dont think that its actions in doing so 
sometime later warrant an award for distress and inconvenience. Equally as Mr G hasnt 
provided me with anything else to suggest that Lloyds actions caused distress and 
inconvenience above the normal nuisances of everyday life, Im not persuaded a further 
award for distress and inconvenience is appropriate here. 
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Lloyds has already done to put things right 
for Mr G  reworking his account so that all the interest, fees and charges added since 
November 2017 are removed and backdating the default to this date  is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this case. Im therefore not requiring Lloyds to do anything more and 
I leave it up to Mr G to decide whether he wishes to accept its offer in settlement of his 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Mr G is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman