DRN-3843063
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that British Gas Insurance Limited caused damage when attending 
to a claim under their HomeCare policy. For ease, Ill mainly refer to Mr C in my decision.
What happened
Mr C says British Gas caused damage to his bath in 2019, when it attended his property to 
repair a leak. Mr C says that, although he noticed the damage at the time, he didnt complain 
about it until last year because he thought hed be able to cover the cost. In its response, 
British Gas said there was no evidence that the damage was caused by its engineer at the 
time. The insurer pointed to the fact that Mr C only reported the problem several years later 
and added that, although there had been other engineer visits since, nothing about this 
damage had been noted.
Remaining unhappy, Mr C asked this service for an independent review. Our investigator 
decided that British Gas had acted fairly. Mr C didnt agree, so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final say on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that British Gas isnt liable for the damage to Mr Cs bath. Ill 
explain why.
The key point here is that there isnt any persuasive evidence that British Gas caused the 
damage during its visit to Mr Cs property in 2019. Mr C says he heard a loud noise at the 
time and only noticed the damage after he was asked to sign the disclaimer form. Mr C also 
says that he didnt follow this up with British Gas at the time because the engineer 
apologised, and he felt able to cover the cost of repairing the damage himself. 
Unfortunately, British Gas no longer holds records from its engineer visit in 2019 and Mr C 
hasnt provided any records he may have had either. Moreover, as the insurer points out, 
there have been other engineer visits since and nothing about the damage to the bath has 
been noted by either party. So its difficult for me to fairly conclude that British Gas did 
indeed cause damage to Mr Cs bath. 
The length of time that has passed since the engineer visit in 2019 is also significant. Mr C 
says it was some time before he was able to arrange for repair quotes and this is when he 
realised that the cost would be too much for him to cover. Its at this point in 2022 that Mr C 
decided to flag the damage with British Gas. Although I empathise with Mr C because of the 
circumstances hes found himself in, I cant fairly hold British Gas responsible for the 
damage to the bath. 
I accept that Mr Cs initial intention was to arrange to have the bath repaired himself. But, in 
my opinion, had Mr C been genuinely concerned about the level of damage caused, I think 
its more likely than not that he wouldve raised this with British Gas around the time  rather 
than wait several years to do so.
For these reasons, Ive decided that British Gas isnt responsible for covering the cost of 
repairing the damage to Mr Cs bath. So I wont be asking it to do anything more in regards 
to this complaint. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman