DRN-3436038
The complaint
Mr M complains that John Lewis Financial Services (John Lewis) lent irresponsibly when it 
approved his credit card application and later increase the credit limit. 
What happened
Mr M had a credit card with John Lewis that was opened in 2011 with a credit limit of £1,750. 
In January 2018 Mr M made payments to clear the outstanding balance of his credit card. In 
May 2018 John Lewis increased Mr Ms credit limit to £2,250. JLP says the credit limit was 
approved in line with its lending criteria. 
Last year, Mr M complained that John Lewis had lent irresponsibly when it approved his 
credit card and went on to increase his credit limit. John Lewis didnt agree it had acted 
unfairly when it approved the credit card or failed to check it was lending responsibly when it 
approved the credit limit increase. 
Mr M referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They said 
the Financial Ombudsman Service couldnt consider the original decision to approve Mr Ms 
credit card application due to time limits noted in our rules. The investigator didnt agree 
John Lewis had lent irresponsibly when it increased Mr Ms credit limit to £2,250 in May 
2018. 
Mr M asked to appeal so his complaint was passed to me to make a decision. I recently 
issued a decision that confirmed the Financial Ombudsman Service cant consider Mr Ms 
complaint about the credit card application as it took place in 2011 and the time limits we 
operate under dont allow us to look back to that date. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As noted above, I recently issued a decision explaining how the time limits given in our rules 
impact Mr Ms complaint. In this decision, Im going to look at John Lewis decision to 
increase Mr Ms credit limit to £2,250 in May 2018. Mr M has provided a copy of his credit file 
and John Lewis has sent us information about the checks it completed before it decided to 
proceed. 
Before a business agrees to lend, it should take reasonable steps to ensure it does so in a 
responsible way. Theres no set list of checks a lender has to complete. In practice, this 
means businesses should ensure proportionate checks are carried out to make sure the 
customer can afford to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way. These checks should take 
into account various factors, like the amount being lent, the costs to the borrower each 
month, credit history and the consumers income and outgoings. As the relationship between 
lender and borrower progresses, the business may need to consider carrying out more 
comprehensive checks to ensure the borrower can afford repayments in a sustainable way.
Here, John Lewis says it took information available from Mr Ms credit file into account along 
with how hed handled his credit card. John Lewis says it approved the credit limit increase 
in line with its lending criteria.
Ive looked at Mr Ms credit card statements for 2017 and 2018 and can see his account was 
well managed, in line with the agreed limits. I note that Mr M cleared the balance in full in 
January 2018 and that by April 2018 he owed around £264 against an available credit limit of 
£1,750. All Mr Ms payments had been made on time and I havent seen anything that would 
indicate to John Lewis that he was struggling. 
John Lewis has provided evidence to show it carried out an assessment based on Mr Ms 
circumstances, overall levels of debt, account usage and credit score. Based on this 
information, John Lewis approved the credit limit of £2,250. 
I think its fair to note that the level of increase was reasonably modest and that John Lewis 
did consider Mr Ms ability to sustainably repay the outstanding balance. Im satisfied the 
checks John Lewis completed were proportionate to the credit limit increase it approved. Im 
sorry to disappoint Mr M but I havent been persuaded that John Lewis lent irresponsibly in 
this case. 
As I havent found that John Lewis lent irresponsibly when it increase the credit limit to 
£2,250 in May 2018 Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman