DRN-2053068
The complaint
Ms N complains that Tandem Bank Limited didnt raise a chargeback when requested 
regarding a payment taken for damages at the end of a car hire agreement. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ms N raised her concerns with Tandem Bank about a charge for damages being 
taken from her credit card following the hire of a car. She says the car wasnt 
damaged while in her possession and no issues were raised when the car was 
returned. Given the dispute about the damage I can understand why Ms N wanted 
Tandem Bank to raise a chargeback.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme. When a customer raises a 
chargeback claim we think it good practice for the chargeback to be raised if theres a 
reasonable prospect of success. Chargebacks are decided based on the card 
schemes rules and there are specific timetables involved and so in in this case I 
have considered the actions of Tandem Banks in response to Ms Ns claim. 
In its letter dated 24 October 2019, Tandem Bank acknowledged Ms Ns claim and 
enclosed a dispute declaration form to be completed. It explained that the disputed 
amount had been credited to Ms Ns card and that if the dispute related to an 
unauthorised transaction that on further investigation was found to have been 
authorised the credit will be re-debited. Ms N completed the form saying the 
transaction was unauthorised. At this stage, I find that Tandem Bank had treated 
Ms N fairly by crediting her account while it gathered information about her claim.
Tandem Bank requested further evidence in a letter dated 11 November 2019. In 
January 2020, it wrote to Ms N to say her claim had been declined as the evidence 
wasnt sufficient to raise a chargeback with the merchant. I understand this was 
upsetting, but Tandem Bank has provided evidence to show the disputed transaction 
had been authorised through chip and PIN. Therefore, I do not find it unreasonable 
that without further evidence to the contrary, Tandem Bank didnt consider it could 
raise a chargeback due to the transaction not being authorised.
In certain circumstances it is possible for a claim to be raised under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act when there has been a misrepresentation or a breach of 
contract. Unfortunately, in this case, Ms N hasnt been able to provide evidence to 
show that this has happened. 
I understand that Ms N has requested information from the hire car company, and 
this hasnt been provided. However, without further evidence to support Ms Ns claim, 
I do not find that I can say that Tandem Bank was required to take any further action.
For these reasons, I do not find that I have enough information to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Tandem Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman