DRN-2711967
The complaint
Mr H complains Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) gave misleading information regarding 
the switching of his business account and made mistakes when transferring his currency 
account to his new bank. 
What happened
Mr H held business bank accounts with RBS both in sterling and other currencies. Mr H says 
he had received a letter from RBS which seemed to imply he needed to transfer his business 
accounts to another provider. Mr H says he wouldnt have transferred his business accounts 
if the letter from RBS had been clearer. In addition, when RBS transferred his business 
account to his new bank, they didnt transfer his currency accounts and after requesting 
these to be transferred separately, RBS made mistakes causing the transfer to be delayed 
for some weeks. Mr H is looking for compensation for the inconvenience caused and RBS to 
amend their processes when dealing with transfers of currency accounts to other banks.
RBS says the letters sent to Mr H were clear these were an invitation to transfer his business 
accounts, as part of an incentivised switching scheme, following financial support it was 
given by the UK Government - not an instruction to transfer his business banking elsewhere. 
RBS have apologised for the time it took to eventually locate the rejected currency account 
transfer but say this was due to the fact Mr H originally gave incorrect beneficiary account 
details, when completing the currency payment form.  Mr H was unhappy with RBSs 
response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information and partly upheld Mr Hs complaint. 
The investigator felt the letters Mr H had received from RBS concerning the switching of his 
business accounts didnt state he had no other choice but to transfer his business accounts. 
The investigator says there was information provided in those letters directing Mr H to visit 
their website for full details of how the scheme worked. The investigator did feel that RBS 
could have done more to help Mr H when his currency account balance transfer went astray, 
and RBS should review their process here. To recognise the inconvenience, the investigator 
asked RBS to pay Mr H £100 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr H was happy with the investigators view overall. Mr H felt RBS still needed to reconsider 
the wording of their business switching communication to its customers and its process 
generally, when transferring its customers currency accounts to other banks.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr H to have thought he had no choice 
other than to transfer his business accounts to another provider, although that wasnt the 
case, and even then, only part of his business banking accounts was transferred, on closure.
When looking at this complaint I will consider if RBS hadnt been clear with Mr H about his 
future banking relationship with them and the need to transfer his business banking accounts 
elsewhere. I will also consider if RBS were at fault when failing to transfer his currency 
accounts to his new banking provider. In addition, I will also consider if RBS were 
responsible for the time it took to locate the whereabouts of Mr Hs business Euro account 
balance, when it failed to arrive at his new bank. 
What happened here is, Mr H received letters from RBS regarding the incentivised switching 
scheme the latest of which he received in October 2020. Mr H says the letter in October 
2020 is ambiguous and leads the reader to assume they have no choice other than to make 
alternative banking arrangements and switch /close their business accounts with RBS. 
Although Mr H has since suggested on looking at this letter again it does explain in more 
detail about the incentivised switching scheme, it is still easy to misunderstand, and RBS 
should review the way the letter is written and make it clearer. 
I have considered what both parties have said here and understand the point Mr H makes 
about the  clarity of the communication from RBS on this. Its worth mentioning these letters 
were issued by RBS, as part of a directive by the UK Government following its financial 
support to them. This was in part an attempt to make it known about other competitive 
business banking opportunities available in the market and to make it simple for business 
customers, like Mr H to switch banks if they wished. This was backed up by a national 
advertising campaign and I have seen the letters Mr H would have received about the 
incentive switching scheme for business customers, including the letter from RBS in October 
2020, to which Mr H refers. 
Given the nature of the contents of this letter, I am satisfied this is something any customer 
would take time to read fully and when doing so it does direct customers to their switching 
website under the heading What to Do Next. In this website it does state :
The communication of Business Banking Switch offers by Royal Bank of Scotland to eligible 
customers does not represent an endorsement or recommendation of those offers. 
Customers must consider the full terms and conditions of the products offered in line with 
their current and future banking needs and seek independent advice where necessary .In 
addition, in the letter dated October 2020, in the final paragraph it reads:
Remember, Business Banking Switch is an incentivised switching scheme set up to invite 
certain customers to consider offers to switch their business current account to a 
participating bank.
On balance, while Mr H may not agree, I cant say the letter was instructing him to transfer 
his business accounts elsewhere but directing him what to do if he chose to do so under the 
incentivised switching scheme. If Mr H was unclear at all how the scheme worked, he had 
the opportunity to read the details in the link provided to him. In an earlier letter about the 
scheme, that was sent to all RBS business customers, it states :  It's a highly unusual 
situation and youll probably have some questions, so please do take a look at the 
Frequently Asked Questions section on our website. Here youll find information on how the 
scheme will work, the switching process and more. 
With this in mind I feel RBS have been clear how the incentivised switching scheme works 
for its business customers. 
The second part of Mr Hs complaint is that RBS didnt transfer his business Euro currency 
account, when he transferred his sterling business current account to his new banking provider. Its worth saying that in the letter of October 2020 Mr H refers to, the link mentioned 
above to the website also makes clear the incentivised switching scheme does not support 
the switching of currency accounts and explains .If you wish to transfer these accounts as 
part of the switch you would need to open a comparable product with your new bank and 
transfer the arrangements. So, I cant say RBS would have transferred these accounts on 
the transfer of Mr Hs sterling business current account to his new banking provider.
That said, like the investigator here, I do feel that RBS could have done more when Mr Hs 
business euro currency account balance transfer when astray. I say this because RBS have 
made clear currency accounts can only be held in conjunction with sterling accounts and as 
they had agreed to transfer the sterling account, at that point RBS should have informed Mr 
H to transfer his business currency accounts. 
While Mr H says the form that he used to send the transfer was incorrect and out of date, I 
have not seen anything to support that and I dont believe the form itself was the reason for 
the funds not arriving at the correct destination here. I say this, as I accept Mr H may have 
incorrectly completed the details of his beneficiary bank account and this may have led to 
some of the delay in locating the whereabouts of the failed transfer to his new bank. That 
said, I dont fully accept RBSs view the lengthy delay in tracing the funds, held in their 
internal suspense account, is because their process doesnt allow them to easily locate 
these types of rejected transactions  that shouldnt affect Mr H having access to these 
monies. 
In addition, RBS havent provided this service with any evidence they kept Mr H regularly 
informed of the whereabouts of the missing Euro Currency balance, knowing he was 
concerned what had happened to these monies. So, taking into account Mr H must also take 
some responsibility here for not accurately completing the currency transfer form, I am 
satisfied the investigators suggestion of £100 by way of compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused is fair and reasonable. It follows while Mr H may be disappointed with my 
decision, I wont be asking anymore of RBS other than to pay the compensation 
recommended by the investigator in her view. 
Putting things right
I instruct Royal Bank of Scotland plc to pay Mr H £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Royal Bank of Scotland plc to pay 
Mr H £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman