DRN-2572407
The complaint
Mr L complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money didnt offer him support 
when he went through a period of ill health, and it has now defaulted his credit card account.
What happened
Mr L said that in August 2019, he was unwell, in and out of work and in and out of hospital 
due to a health issue. He said he got in touch with Virgin to tell it he was having difficulties. It 
said it would send him an income and expenditure form. Mr L said that didnt arrive, and 
Virgin didnt contact him again. He said it wrote to ask him to pay a little over £400 by mid-
February. He got back in touch to ask for a payment plan, but Virgin didnt respond until after 
it had defaulted his account. 
Virgin has shown us that it spoke to Mr L at the end of October 2019, when he rang in 
response to its letters. Mr L said at the time that the problem with his payments was likely to 
be short term, he was back in work and feeling much better. Virgin sent out an income and 
expenditure assessment for Mr L to complete, so it could set up a payment plan for him.
A month later, Virgin hadnt heard back from Mr L, so it rang him. The call went straight to 
voicemail. Virgin has also shown us a number of letters it wrote to Mr L about his missed 
payments and the debt on his card account. 
Virgin said it had written to Mr L repeatedly to ask him to pay the arrears on his account. It 
didnt think that it had failed to give him the appropriate notice of what was happening on his 
account. It said that it had now passed his account to its Specialist Support Team. It was 
sorry that it hadnt responded to his contact of 5 February 2020 for a couple of weeks. It 
wouldnt sell this account on, its specialist team would continue to support him. 
Virgin refunded interest that Mr L was charged in February 2020, and it paid Mr L £100 in 
compensation for delays in responding to his contact. But it wouldnt remove the default from 
his credit file.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He expressed his sympathies 
for Mr L, and the difficulties hes faced, but our investigator said that Mr L had missed his 
minimum payments from August 2019 onwards. Virgin had written to Mr L about this. Our 
investigator said that applying a default on Mr Ls account was in line with the relevant 
principles for reporting payment arrears and defaults. Our investigator thought that Virgin 
had followed these principles, and given Mr L sufficient notice of what it was doing. 
Our investigator thought Virgin had taken appropriate steps to compensate Mr L for not 
dealing more promptly with the email and letter he sent in early February 2020. But our 
investigator didnt think that made a difference to the overall outcome, because he thought 
Mr Ls account wouldve been defaulted even if Virgin had been in touch sooner.
Mr L said he wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He wrote a letter for 
me to consider, which repeated that Mr L didnt get an income and expenditure form after his 
first call to Virgin in October 2019. He felt that Virgin could have reached out to him after a 
reasonable time, to follow up on this, or couldve forwarded his account to the specialist 
team then. 
Mr L then turned to the email, which we know was sent on 5 February 2020. He said hed 
received no contact call from Virgin, so he reached out again to tell Virgin he could not pay 
the expected amount and to arrange a short-term alternative. He said he was expecting 
Virgin to set this up. Mr L said hed sent a letter around the same time, but again Virgin 
hadnt attended to this or even acknowledged it until significantly later. 
Mr L said he didnt see how throughout his repeated contacts to the company, he could fully 
be held to blame that it was entirely his doing and his own misfortune in circumstances that 
have led him to receive a default on his credit file, for 6 years. Mr L clearly felt very let down 
by Virgin.
This case was then passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account Mr Ls circumstances and am sorry to hear that hes been having a 
difficult time. But Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our 
investigator. Im sorry if this disappoints Mr L. Ill explain why Ive decided that.
Mr L suggested to our service that hed been in touch with Virgin proactively in August 2019, 
because he wasnt able to make his payments. More recently, hes mentioned a call in late 
October, so its not clear if he now accepts that his call with Virgin was in October, not 
August.
Ive listened to a call from 24 October 2019, which is the first time Virgin says that it spoke to 
him about his difficulties. That call does appear to be the first time Mr L has discussed this 
issue with Virgin. Virgin had sent him a number of letters, including one explaining that he 
was three payments in arrears.
I can hear that Virgin explained to Mr L on that call what happens when someone gets 
behind on their payments. Virgin set that out clearly and simply for him. It arranged to send 
out an income and expenditure assessment for him, and said it could set up a payment plan 
once it had that. 
Mr L says he didnt receive this income and expenditure assessment, and he didnt receive a 
default notice sent on 18 January 2020 either. Mr L also says that Virgin didnt get in touch 
with him after the call in October. He thinks that Virgin shouldve reached out to him. But I 
think it did. I can see that Virgin tried to call him almost a month after this call. And it also 
sent him a considerable amount of other correspondence about his account.
Virgin had the right address for Mr L, so if post didnt arrive, I dont think that would be 
Virgins fault. And because Virgin has sent Mr L a considerable amount of other 
correspondence about his debt, as well as setting out clearly for him on the phone what 
would happen if he didnt pay, I think Mr L would have been aware of the position of his 
Virgin account. Mr L said he had repeatedly been in touch with Virgin. But after he spoke to Virgin in late 
October 2019, he didnt respond to its attempts to contact him, and he didnt get in touch 
with Virgin again until almost four months later, in early February 2020. 
Mr L has complained about how long it took Virgin to respond to this contact of early 
February. I do think its unfortunate that Mr Ls letter and email werent dealt with sooner. So 
I think its appropriate for Virgin to have paid some compensation for that. But I dont think 
Virgin has to take the default off Mr Ls credit file because of this. Thats because I dont 
think that attending more promptly to this contact would have changed things in this case. 
Mr L needed to pay £492.09 by 15 February 2020. Theres no suggestion in the 
correspondence that Mr L sent to Virgin, or the calls Ive listened to, that Mr L was in a 
position to do this. Hes been clear that what he expected in early February was that a 
payment arrangement would be set up. But the arrears on his account had built up to such 
an extent by then, that Virgin wouldve been very unlikely to enter into a payment 
arrangement to clear them. So I think that even if Virgin had spoken to Mr L sooner, its still 
most likely that his account would have been defaulted.
For those reasons, I dont think that Virgin has to take this default off Mr Ls credit file. 
Virgin has refunded £48.80 of interest that Mr L was charged on in February 2020, and it has 
also credited Mr Ls account with £100. It did that to make up for not attending to his 
complaint more promptly. I know Mr L wont agree with me, but I think that provides a fair 
and reasonable outcome to this complaint, and I dont think Virgin has to do more than this. 
I know Mr L will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman