DRN-4269746
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited cancelled their home 
insurance policy unreasonably. 
Watfords been represented by agents. For simplicity Ive generally referred to the agents 
actions as being Watfords own. 
What happened
In January 2023 Mr and Mrs B entered into a new contract of home insurance with Watford. 
Not long after the insurer cancelled the policy. It said Mr and Mrs B had failed to show 
repairs required for an earlier subsidence claim had been completed. 
Mr and Mrs B complain the cancellation is unfair, as whilst a claim was made, it turned out 
there was no subsidence and only superficial cosmetic works were required. Watford 
responded to a complaint but didnt change its position on the cancellation. So Mr and Mrs B 
came to this service. They are concerned at the impact of a cancellation record on their 
future insurance provision.  
In July 2023 our Investigator considered the complaint. He appreciated Watford wished to 
know if Mr and Mrs Bs property was in a good state of repair, but ultimately felt the 
cancellation to be unfair. He said Watfords own loss adjuster had found only minor 
maintenance work was required. So he felt it was unreasonable for it to require an 
engineers report and certificate of completeness. 
To put things right the Investigator recommended Watford remove any internal or external 
records of the cancellation. He said it should pay Mr and Mrs B the difference between what 
they paid for their Watford policy and the new insurance they found after the cancellation - 
£1,011.55 plus simple interest at 8%. He also said it should Mr and Mrs B £350 
compensation to recognise the unnecessary distress and inconvenience it had caused them. 
Mr and Mrs B accepted that outcome. Watford didnt, so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. In August 2023 I explained to Mr and Mrs B and Watford that I agreed with the 
outcome reached by our Investigator. I asked both sides to agree to settle the dispute 
quickly without the need for a formal final decision by following his recommendations. 
Watford agreed to the Investigators recommendation. Mr and Mrs B did, but asked for a 
letter from Watford explaining the policy had been cancelled incorrectly. I asked Watford to 
agree to provide one, explaining I felt Mr and Mrs Bs request was reasonable. So far its 
failed to provide a definitive response. As this complaint has run for some time now, I feel its 
in the interests of all involved to bring it to a conclusion rather than allow Watford more time. 
So Ive issued this final decision setting out what I require it to do to put things right for 
Mr and Mrs B.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A broker had a discussion with Watford (or an agent acting on its behalf), pre-inception, to 
discuss the subsidence claim  with Watford agreeing to take on the risk (including the 
declined subsidence claim).  So Watford (or its agent) accepted the contract of insurance 
with knowledge that Mr and Mrs B had made an unsuccessful (as there was no subsidence) 
subsidence claim in August 2022. The claim was declared on the policy documentation. 
Its unreasonable (and unlikely to be in line with the relevant misrepresentation legislation - 
CIDRA) for the cover to then be cancelled due to that subsidence claim. 
In addition Mr and Mrs B responded to Watfords request (via the broker) for information 
about the subsidence claim. It was made clear that there was no subsidence. That was 
explained in a report Mr and Mrs B provided. It concludes the issue was a general 
maintenance one caused by thermal movement. A very minor cosmetic crack required 
repair.
Unfortunately Watford seems to have mistakenly believed there was an issue with a 
neighbours tree and an engineers recommendation for works. That doesnt seem to be 
case. This misunderstanding was corrected by Mr and Mrs B weeks before the cancellation.  
Finally it seems the subsidence claim was made against a Watford policy. 
So to summarise - Watford agreed to offer cover to Mr and Mrs B with full knowledge of the 
subsidence claim. It had itself investigated that claim and found no subsidence  only a need 
for minor cosmetic repairs. Mr and Mrs B had reminded Watford of this. Yet it still cancelled 
the policy as for a failure to who the recommended subsidence repairs had been completed. 
Thats an unfair and unreasonable action to take  regardless of Watfords own internal 
procedures. 
I agree the Investigators recommendations provide a fair way to resolve the complaint. As 
Watford and Mr and Mrs B agreed to them, I havent discussed them any further. But as Ive 
explained their request for a letter explaining the cancellation is also, in my view, reasonable. 
They will be able to show it to future insurers should there be any queries about the 
cancellation. So Watford will also need to provide a letter to Mr and Mrs B giving the policy 
details and explaining it cancelled that cover incorrectly.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to: 
remove any internal or external records of it having cancelled the policy - if necessary 
recording the policy as cancelled by Mr and Mrs B,
provide Mr and Mrs B with a letter explaining it cancelled the policy incorrectly, 
pay them £1,011.55  plus simple interest at 8%* from the date they paid for their new 
insurance until the date of settlement and
pay them £350 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
*If Watford considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest it should tell Mr and Mrs 
B how much its taken off. It should also give them a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 Daniel Martin
Ombudsman