DRN-3430013
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the service he received from Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin 
Money and about delays in withdrawing funds from his unit trust account.
What happened
The facts are not in dispute so I dont need to detail them here. In summary Mr S attempted 
an online withdrawal in February 2021, a form was then sent to him which he returned. But 
when he didnt receive the funds he called Virgin Money to find out why. He was told the 
option to withdraw shouldnt have been available online and he would need to complete 
forms instead. He was also told there was an outstanding source of funds request that 
needed to be authorised.
Mr S was looking to withdraw all funds over the next month and arranged a
second withdrawal. Over following weeks he made a number of withdrawals to
clear the funds from the account. However he received conflicting information from agents 
he spoke to. Forms also took longer to arrive than expected and some didnt include the 
information needed for him to provide the documents that had been requested. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. She felt that Virgin Money gave 
unclear information in addition to the system error which caused an initial delay. She 
recommended that Virgin Money pay Mr S £150 in compensation. Mr S didnt really feel that 
this sum compensated him for the hours spent on the phone but agreed to accept in 
resolution of his complaint. Virgin Money didnt accept the recommendation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that that following his attempt to withdraw funds in February 2021 Virgin Money did 
write to Mr S explaining that a deal couldnt be placed online. However he was able to 
proceed with the online request before this information was given to him. Further, the letter 
sent by Virgin Money also didnt say that the withdrawal couldnt be made in this way. Mr S 
spoke to an agent following receipt of this letter but the agent admitted that he too was 
confused and needed to raise the matter with his manager in order to determine why the 
withdrawal hadnt been processed. Having spoken to his manager the agent confirmed why 
it wasnt possible to make the request online but accepted that the option was there.
Like our investigator Im satisfied that if it had been apparent that the online option wasnt 
available to Mr S he would have placed his initial deal over the phone, as he did 
subsequently. This would have meant there was no delay and saved him from having to 
make the telephone contact that he did. I do appreciate that Virgin Money need to make 
checks and it is not for this service to dictate how it should operate. Nevertheless Im 
satisfied that the process wasnt clear. Likewise information that Virgin Money had previously 
received hadnt been verified meaning that there were further unexpected delays for Mr S.
Overall Im satisfied that the process was not made clear to Mr S, and it follows that he didnt 
receive the service he could have expected. I accept that he found this stressful and 
inconvenient. I agree compensation is merited and I find that £150 is fair in the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained I uphold this complaint. I require Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Virgin Money to pay Mr S £150 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman