DRN-2869042
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited has declined a claim he 
made on his employers group income protection scheme. 
 
What happened
Mr S is a member of his employer's group income protection scheme. He became absent 
from work in August 2017, following the breakdown of his marriage. He was diagnosed with 
adjustment disorder and depression. He successfully claimed on the income protection 
policy and was receiving a benefit under the policy. 
In early 2019 Legal and General said that they were intending to stop paying the benefit 
because Mr S hadn't provided them with documentation or attended appointments. They 
stopped paying the benefit in April 2019. 
Mr S appealed the decision and in September 2019 attended an appointment with an 
Independent Medical Examiner (IME). The IME concluded that there wasn't evidence of a 
psychiatric illness. Legal and General terminated the claim on the basis that Mr S no longer 
met the definition of incapacity under the policy terms. Mr S appealed, and provided further 
medical evidence, but Legal and General maintained their decision to decline the claim. 
Unhappy, Mr S complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She thought 
Legal and General had fairly relied on the available medical evidence to decline the claim. 
Mr S didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. He specifically referred 
to a report from his consultant psychiatrist, dated November 2019, which provided further 
information about his condition. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Legal and General has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they 
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. As Legal and General had accepted the claim, and 
later terminated the claim, its for them to demonstrate that it was reasonable to do so.
A disabled member is defined as an insured member who, in Legal and Generals opinion, 
meets the incapacity definition. The definition of incapacity set out on the policy schedule is 
own occupation which means that in order to meet the definition of incapacity the insured 
member is:
Incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents him from performing the essential 
duties of his occupation immediately before the start of the deferred period. 
The policy terms and conditions say that Legal and General can stop paying benefit if the 
insured member ceases being a disabled member. So, in summary, in this case it is for 
Legal and General to demonstrate that Mr S no longer met the definition of incapacity and 
had therefore ceased to be a disabled member. 
Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint because I think it was reasonable for Legal and General 
to terminate the claim for the reasons Ill go on to explain.  
At the point that the claim was terminated in April 2019 Legal and General were carrying out 
a review of Mr Ss claim. Theyd asked Mr S to provide a continuation statement and also 
arranged for him to attend appointments to assess his current health. Mr S didnt engage 
with Legal and General and didnt provide the documentation Legal and General has asked 
for. There was also other evidence suggesting that Mr S was not engaging with his treatment 
plan and that hed gone abroad. 
Ive taken into account that Mr S and his treating consultant psychiatrist has outlined some 
of the difficulties that he has in completing paperwork and carrying out day to day tasks. Ive 
also taken into account what Mr S has said about the reasons for not providing paperwork to 
Legal and General. However, I think that Legal and General gave Mr S a number of 
opportunities to engage with them throughout early 2019 over a number of months. For 
example, they arranged a phone appointment with their rehabilitation team and Mr S didnt 
answer the call. And, when Mr S was offered another appointment, he couldnt commit to a 
particular appointment time. So Legal and General did attempt to engage with Mr S however 
its attempts were unsuccessful for the reasons Ive explained. Im also satisfied that it was 
made it clear that should he not engage then there was a possibility that his claim would be 
terminated and so I dont think Legal and General treated him unfairly. Based on the 
evidence Ive been provided with, I think it was reasonable for Legal and General to stop 
paying the benefit in April 2019. 
Mr S provided further information and in September 2019 attended an appointment with an 
Independent Medical Examiner (IME). Taking into account the lack of clear medical evidence 
about Mr Ss condition at that time I think that it was reasonable, and in Mr Ss interests, to 
seek an independent review of his condition. 
The IME was with Mr S for nearly two hours and provided a detailed report. The report 
concluded in summary, that Mr S wasnt suffering from a psychiatric illness and that Mr S 
was fit to return to work from a medical perspective. The report pointed to the stress 
surrounding Mr Ss marital breakdown but explained that stress was not an illness.  Having 
taken into account the contents of this report I dont think it was unreasonable for Legal and 
General to rely on that medical evidence and conclude that Mr S no longer met the definition 
of incapacity.
When Mr S appealed and provided further information in support of his illness, including a 
report from his treating consultant psychiatrist. The consultant explained that Mr S had been 
admitted to a private medical facility in October 2019 due to his mental state at the time. He 
said that the IME was completely out of line with the reality of the situation and had 
misdirected Legal and General by saying that Mr S didnt have a formal diagnosis. He also 
highlighted that hes considered it part of Mr Ss treatment package to send Mr S abroad. He 
concluded that Mr S presented as a high suicide risk. The report concluded that: 
This man has had multiple opinions that he has suffered with incapacitating 
depression and I originally diagnosed him with an Adjustment Disorder, but the 
symptoms overlap.Mr S also referred to this report in response to our investigators opinion that the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. Ive taken into account that this report did address many of the 
comments in the IMEs report and put forward an alternative opinion. But Im satisfied that 
Legal and General have fairly considered this evidence as part of the appeals process. They 
sought a further opinion from the IME, and asked him to comment on the further evidence 
provided, including the treating consultants report and other medical information. The IME 
maintained his opinion that Mr S had not presented with signs of mental illness or functioning 
problems due to mental illness. He reiterated that stress was nonpathological and explained 
that his overall opinion had not changed.
Im therefore satisfied that this evidence formed part of Legal and Generals review and was 
fairly considered as part of the appeal. Legal and General sought a further independent 
opinion and I dont think it was unreasonable for them to rely on the findings of the IME. 
Whilst the opinion of the IME and treating consultant differed, I think the IME gave a detailed 
and independent review of the medical evidence. He highlighted his reasons for disagreeing 
with the position reached by the treating consultant and gave a further opinion on key points 
raised by Mr Ss treating consultant as well as the wider medical evidence provided. So, 
taking all of the above into account I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Legal and 
General to rely on the IME report as opposed to the treating consultants opinion in the 
circumstances of this case.
Finally, Ive considered what Mr S has said in response to the investigators opinion. Hes 
explained that during his time abroad he remained on medication and engaged with his 
therapist. The IME report did acknowledge that Mr S was taking medication and that his 
treating team had supported the decision for Mr S to go abroad. So, Im satisfied that these 
factors were taken into account by Legal and General as part of their wider review of the 
evidence and they dont change my thoughts about the overall outcome of the complaint.  
 My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman