DRN-4057296
The complaint
Mrs O complains about the advice given by AXG Advice Ltd (AXG) to transfer the benefits 
from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP). She says the advice was unsuitable for her and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
Mrs O approached AXG in 2020 to discuss her pension and retirement needs. I understand 
that Mr and Mrs O were emigrating to Spain and had contacted an adviser to receive 
financial advice in relation to this, and her pension planning. As Mrs Os existing adviser 
didnt have the correct authorisation to give pension advice she was referred to AXG. 
AXG completed a fact-find to gather information about Mrs Os circumstances and 
objectives. This showed that:
She was 58 years old, married and had one daughter who was not financially 
dependent. 
She was retired. 
Mr and Mrs O were in the process of selling their UK home and purchasing a 
property in Spain. They had £330,000 in cash which was largely to be used to fund 
the move.
Mr and Mrs O had other investments or savings that had a value of around £50,000. 
The fact find showed that Mrs O had pensions with a value of £221,000, but Mrs O 
has explained that this was her husbands provision. She didnt have any other 
pensions herself. 
Mrs O was a deferred member of a DB pension. This pension had a transfer value of 
£65,587.48.  
AXG also carried out an assessment of Mrs Os attitude to risk, which it said was high-
medium. 
On 29 June 2020, AXG advised Mrs O to transfer her pension benefits into a SIPP and 
invest the proceeds. The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were 
that: 
She wanted the flexibility to control her income in retirement in line with pensions 
freedom legislation.
She wanted to enhance the death benefits available for her dependents.
She wanted the ability to retire early.
In June 2022, Mrs O received a letter from AXG which said that the industry regulator had 
assessed a sample of its DB transfer advice cases and had raised some concerns. So, it 
was carrying out a voluntary review of all the advice it gave customers with DB pensions. 
Ive not seen that a review was completed in Mrs Os case. 
Mrs O complained in August 2022 to AXG about the suitability of the transfer advice. Mrs O 
said that she was now having doubts about whether the advice she received was suitable for 
her. She said that the advice didnt consider what she already had, and AXG didnt ask 
enough questions about her financial position at the time. She said that how her husbands 
provision would affect her situation was not properly considered. Mrs O believes she has
been left financially worse off in retirement as a result. She says she has little, or no, pension 
funds left now after the advice from AXG. 
AXG didnt uphold Mrs Os complaint. It said that the transfer achieved her motives of 
flexibility and enhanced death benefits. It noted that the DB scheme did not have any death 
benefits. And so, the DB transfer improved upon this. 
Mrs O referred her complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended that AXG pay compensation. She didnt think that Mrs O had a higher attitude 
to risk and she wasnt persuaded that Mrs O wanted to take the risk of the transfer. She 
didnt need flexibility and the death benefits from the DB scheme could have been valuable 
to her partner. 
AXG disagreed, saying it was reasonable to say she had a high-medium attitude to risk 
given the answers she gave to the questions she was asked about risk. The existing DB 
scheme did not have any death benefits and Mrs O did want flexibility. Mrs O had made 
investments in her name. All of this was confirmed with Mrs O in a telephone call. 
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion overall. But she did clarify that 
even if the DB scheme didnt have significant, or any, death benefits that this wouldnt make 
the transfer suitable. This is because a DB scheme should be used to provide a pension for 
the member in any event. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint was referred to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of AXG's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, AXG should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mrs Os best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it 
was in her best interests.
Financial viability 
AXG carried out an Appropriate Pension Transfer Analysis (as required by the regulator). 
This looked at how much it would cost to purchase the benefits Mrs O was giving up when 
she transferred. It also calculated how much Mrs Os pension fund would need to grow by 
each year in order to provide the same benefits as her DB scheme (the critical yield).
I understand that, partly due to some incorrect information from the DB scheme, AXG was 
under the impression that that the DB scheme had a normal retirement date of 65. But it has 
now been clarified that this is 60. AXG didnt look at financial viability in respect of Mrs Os 
age 60 and it should have done this. But given the position at age 65, and that providing for 
an early retirement is normally more expensive, I dont think the financial viability position 
would be improved at age 60. So, I think its reasonable to look at the advice as it is. 
The suitability letter showed that it would cost Mrs O £124,095.51 to obtain a comparable 
level of income to the DB scheme at age 65. This was £55,508.02 more than the transfer 
value. This gives a good idea of the cost of the benefits she was giving up at the time which 
I think its reasonable to say this is significant. 
And the advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as 
to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mrs O was 58 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at 65 at the latest. She was 
considering taking her benefits before this. The critical yield required to match Mrs Os 
benefits at age 65 was 11.09% if she took a full pension. AXG didnt show the situation if Mrs 
O took some tax-free cash, it also should have done this. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.3% per year for 6 years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection 
rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, 
Mrs Os medium high attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. 
Mrs O was recorded as having a medium high attitude to risk. Im not persuaded that this is 
right. Mrs O did answer some questions that indicated she was able to take some risk. But, 
on the other hand, she seems to have very little investment experience herself and the DB 
scheme was her main pension provision above her state pension. 
But the return needed to match the DB scheme benefits was significantly above what the 
regulator thought was reasonable for even a higher risk investment to provide. So, I dont 
need to fully determine what her attitude to risk was to say the transfer wasnt suitable for 
Mrs O. This is because there would be little point in Mrs O giving up the guarantees 
available to her through her DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits 
outside the scheme. But here, given the critical yield was 11.09%, I think Mrs O was likely to 
receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a 
result of investing in line with her recorded attitude to risk, and this would be magnified if her 
tolerance to risk was lower. And I think this would be the case if the analysis was done to her 
age 60 as well. 
AXG has provided cashflow models which it says show that Mrs O wouldve been able to 
meet her needs despite the high critical yields. Ive considered these, but AXGs models 
show that if Mrs O took the same income benefits as the DB scheme had provided then the 
fund would run out at her age 81. This was noted as being below her life expectancy of 85. 
And if the fund had period of poor performance then it could run out much earlier than this.
Also, as AXG will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I 
consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in 
this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over 
such a long period of time.
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mrs Os best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as AXG has 
said in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
One of the reasons that Mrs O wanted to transfer was that she said she wanted some 
flexibility in how she took her money. It seems that she wanted to provide some funds for her 
daughter in the near future. 
But I think its reasonable to say that AXG accepted what Mrs O said about this without any 
challenge. There was no analysis about whether Mrs O could get the funds she wanted 
elsewhere, and I do note that Mr and Mrs O already had a significant amount of cash. And at 
34 their daughter was financially independent. So, this aim seems to me to have been a 
nice to have rather than a definite need. 
And even though Mrs O described herself as retired she wasnt at state pension age and she 
hadnt taken the benefits from this DB scheme yet. AXG should have fully looked into how 
Mrs O reducing her income from this pension would have affected her retirement. I cant see 
that it did this here so I cant say that it fully considered Mrs Os circumstances. I think this is 
a serious failing and I cant see how AXG could have properly given retirement advice 
without fully considering her actual retirement plans and income needs. So, Im not persuaded that Mrs O required flexibility in retirement. This is because based on 
the evidence Ive seen; I dont think she had a genuine need to access her tax free cash 
earlier than the normal scheme retirement age and leave her funds invested until a later 
date.  I also cant see evidence that Mrs O had a strong need for variable income throughout 
her retirement. Neither of these seems to have been fully discussed. 
And Im satisfied Mrs O was likely to have been best placed to meet her income needs in 
retirement through the DB scheme. It wasnt recorded exactly what Mrs O needed. But she 
was entitled to an annual income of £3,941.60 at 60 and £5,405.96 at age 65 from the DB 
scheme. Adding this to her state pension may have met her income objectives. In any event, 
I dont see why she should have been advised to risk this income. 
And lastly Mr and Mrs O were moving abroad at the time of sale and whilst this wasnt fully 
completed, this was a significant change in their circumstances.  But other than an 
acknowledgment of this there is almost no mention of it in the point of sale documentation. I 
think this should have formed a central part of the advice and the fact that it didnt is another 
failing on the part of AXG. That said I doubt whether considering this issue would have made 
the advice suitable, but AXG still should have fully looked into it.  
Death benefits
I understand that Mrs Os DB scheme didnt automatically provide death benefits. Mrs O 
needed to pay for these, and she hadnt done this. So, I understand the DB scheme didnt 
provide any dependents benefits. This is noted in the suitability report although this report 
still contains information about the generic death benefits a DB scheme would provide 
which would be confusing to Mrs O. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a SIPP were likely an attractive feature to Mrs O. But whilst I appreciate death 
benefits are important to consumers, and Mrs O might have thought it was a good idea to 
transfer her DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mrs O about what was best for her retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide an income in retirement. And I dont think AXG explored to what extent 
Mrs O was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for providing death 
benefits.
Furthermore, if Mrs O genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for her spouse or children, which 
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of her pension fund remained on her 
death, I think AXG shouldve instead explored life insurance. Although considering that she 
opted out of the DB scheme providing these benefits its questionable that this was a real 
aim for her. 
Overall, I dont think death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified the likely 
decrease of retirement benefits for Mrs O. And I dont think that insurance was properly 
explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think Mrs Os desire for control over her pension benefits was overstated. Mrs O was not an 
experienced investor, and I dont think that she had an interest in or the knowledge to be 
able to manage her pension funds on her own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine 
objective for Mrs O  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from her DB scheme.I can see that it was noted that the scheme had a funding deficit. But Ive not seen any 
reason that the funding of her employers DB scheme was in a position such that Mrs O 
should have genuinely been concerned about the security of her pension. And Ive seen no 
indication that she was. 
Suitability of investments
AXG recommended that Mrs O invest a in third-party investment portfolio. This was a 
cautious portfolio, and it was described as being suitable for Miss O as a low risk investor. 
This is clearly in direct contraction to what AXG said at other times about Mrs Os attitude to 
risk. 
However, as Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB 
scheme wasnt suitable for Mrs O, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the 
investment recommendation. This is because Mrs O should have been advised to remain in 
the DB scheme and so the investments in the unsuitable funds wouldnt have arisen if 
suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for death benefits on offer through a 
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mrs O. But AXG wasnt 
there to just transact what Mrs O might have thought she wanted. The advisers role was to 
really understand what Mrs O needed and recommend what was in her best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mrs O was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mrs O was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mrs O shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just to provide funds to her daughter and, the potential for death benefits wasnt 
worth giving up the guarantees associated with her DB scheme.
So, I think AXG shouldve advised Mrs O to remain in her DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mrs O would've gone ahead anyway, against AXG's 
advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mrs O wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against AXGs advice. I say this because Mrs O was an 
inexperienced investor and this pension accounted for the majority of Mrs Os retirement 
provision. So, if AXG had provided her with clear advice against transferring out of the DB 
scheme, explaining why it wasnt in her best interests, I think she wouldve accepted that 
advice.
Im not persuaded that Mrs Os want to access funds was so great that she wouldve insisted 
on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise she had sought out, 
didnt think it was suitable for her or in her best interests. If AXG had explained that Mrs O 
could meet all of her objectives without risking her guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve 
carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mrs O would have insisted on transferring out of 
the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think AXG should compensate Mrs O for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs O, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs O would 
have most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been 
given. 
AXG must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, although Mrs O is retired, and she has taken some of the benefits from the DB 
scheme this was only a very short time away from the schemes NRD of age 60. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 60. 
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mrs Os acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, AXG should:
calculate and offer Mrs O redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mrs O before starting the redress calculation that:
- her redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest her redress prudently is to use it to augment 
her DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mrs O receives could be augmented 
rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mrs O accepts AXGs offer to calculate how much of her redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mrs O for the 
calculation, even if she ultimately decides not to have any of her redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mrs Os end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mrs O as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits 
that would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, AXG may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from her pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mrs Os likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £375,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £375,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require AXG Advice Ltd to pay 
Mrs O the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£375,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £375,000, I also recommend that 
AXG Advice Ltd pays Mrs O the balance.
If Mrs O accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on AXG Advice Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs O can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs O may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman