DRN-3220161
The complaint
Miss N complains about the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) 
handled a claim she made under her car insurance policy.
Any reference to Advantage includes its agents.
What happened
Miss Ns car was unfortunately stolen in December 2020, so she claimed on her car 
insurance policy. The car was recovered by the police a few weeks later and subsequently 
collected by Advantages salvage agents soon afterwards. 
Advantage appointed engineers to inspect the car and following receipt of the engineers 
reports, Advantage authorised repairs to begin on the car. Miss N received her car back at 
the beginning of April 2021 however, she noticed some faults which meant the car had to be 
sent back for further repairs. After further repairs were completed, the car was ultimately 
sent back to Miss N in early June 2021.
Miss N was unhappy about how her claim had been handled and thought there were 
unnecessary delays throughout the process. She explained she often had to chase for 
updates and pointed out that the initial adviser she spoke with told her matters would only 
take around two weeks, but they took significantly longer.
Miss N also explained that the courtesy car she was given, whilst her car was being 
repaired, was smaller than her car which made travelling with her child difficult. Overall, 
Miss N was unhappy with matters and pointed out she had been paying monthly for the car 
through a leasing company for the period that she didnt have use of it. She thought this was 
something Advantage should be paying towards. So, Miss N complained.
Advantage reviewed matters and, in summary, explained that there were various validation 
checks required which were unavoidable and contributed to the overall delays. But it agreed 
that things had taken longer than necessary and acknowledged that Miss N often had to call 
for updates. Advantage said it was sorry Miss N felt the courtesy car was unsuitable for her 
and her family, but it thought that the car it provided was in line with the policy terms.
Advantage said it wouldnt cover Miss Ns monthly payments to the leasing company 
because it said she wouldve been liable for these costs irrespective of whether the claim 
was delayed or not. But it did agree that its poor service and communication meant that 
Miss N should be paid some compensation, so it offered her a total of £200. Miss N didnt 
think this reflected the impact of the matter on her. Unhappy with Advantages response, she 
brought her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators reviewed matters and thought that whilst there had been delays, the 
compensation offered by Advantage was fair in the circumstances. Advantage didnt dispute 
our investigators findings, but Miss N did and mostly repeated her earlier points.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Miss Ns claim under her policy was accepted and her car was returned to her in June 2021. 
The key element to this complaint, therefore, is what compensation Advantage should pay 
Miss N to reflect the distress and inconvenience it agreed it caused her during its handling of 
the claim.
As I understand it, Miss N is disappointed that matters took longer than she wouldve hoped 
for. Her car was recovered in mid-January 2021, but Ms N didnt get it back until the 
beginning of June 2021. Unfortunately, the nature of claims such as Miss Ns means that 
there is usually some degree of inconvenience caused given that the whole process, 
including any required repairs, can take some time to complete. 
Additionally, Advantage has said some of the delays were caused by circumstances outside 
of its control. For example, it said it initially required the validations team to assess the claim 
 which isnt uncommon in the circumstances. The damage sustained also meant that 
Advantage needed to arrange for multiple inspections of the car before the repairs could go 
ahead. Additionally, Advantage said that the car needed to be sent to the car manufacturer 
to complete diagnostics tests as a result of issues with warning lights which appeared on the 
dashboard. With this in mind, Im persuaded that some of the delays over the whole claim 
period werent Advantages fault and are to be expected in scenarios such as this.
Ive also considered that Miss N was provided with a courtesy car shortly after the repairs 
began. I appreciate Miss N said it was smaller than her original car, however Advantage said 
it provided a Group A car in line with its terms. The policy allows for customers to upgrade 
the type of courtesy car they receive, for instance with a larger engine, through enhanced 
substitute vehicle cover. But, as I understand it, this isnt something Miss N had. So, I dont 
think Advantage acted unreasonably by providing a Group A car. And, ultimately, it meant 
that Miss N was able to travel.
However, whilst Miss N did have an alternative method of transport, and Im persuaded that 
not all the delays were Advantages fault, I still think it couldve done more to expedite 
matters. This is something Advantage has acknowledged itself and apologised for. In 
particular, and arguably most notably, Advantage has acknowledged a delay of around two 
weeks over a period in April and May where it had delayed approving repairs. Additionally, 
Miss N had detailed some further damage that she noticed following the initial repair, 
meaning the car needed to be looked at again. As I understand it, Miss N says some of 
these errors shouldve been apparent during the initial repair process.
There were also other customer service issues, including that Miss N was mis-advised about 
how long her claim was likely to take. Miss N had to also call frequently to find out what was 
happening with her claim, which I can appreciate wouldve added to her frustration. 
So, whilst I dont think Advantage was responsible for the all the delays over the claim 
period, I do think it couldve done more to expedite matters and its overall customer service 
couldve been better. In response to Miss Ns complaint, Advantage offered £200 
compensation to put matters right. In doing so, I think it has recognised the impact of the matter on Miss N and I consider its compensation offer reasonable and in line with what I 
wouldve recommended. So, whilst I recognise this will be disappointing for Miss N, it follows 
that I wont be asking Advantage to increase its offer of compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is Advantage Insurance Company Limited doesnt need to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman