DRN-2955740
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as S has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly
turned down its business interruption insurance claim after it was impacted by the
Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr H, a director of S, has brought the complaint on Ss behalf.
What happened 
S held a business interruption insurance policy with UKI. S claimed on its policy after being 
impacted by the Governments actions in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
 
UKI said the policy didnt cover Ss claim under either the extension for disease because, 
while the policy covered losses due to some named diseases, Covid-19 wasnt on that list. 
UKI said they had also considered the extension for public emergency - but that had an 
exclusion for infectious or contagious diseases. 
Unhappy with UKIs response, S brought its complaint to us. S said it was the Government 
action that had impacted its business rather than because of Covid-19 itself. It also said 
Covid-19 was a virus not a disease so it didnt think the exclusion for infectious or contagious 
diseases applied to its circumstances
Our investigator looked into Ss complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought 
Covid-19 was an infectious or contagious disease and therefore the exclusion applied. 
S asked for an ombudsmans decision as it maintained that its business had been 
interrupted by the Governments actions rather than Covid-19. 
Before reaching a decision, I asked our investigator to let S know that I intended to make 
reference to the High Court Judgment on the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case 
in my final decision, as I thought it was relevant to Ss complaint. S didnt provide any further 
comments in response by the required date.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ss business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if UKI have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ss claim.
S dont seem to dispute that there is no cover for its claim under the extension for disease. 
However, for completeness, I also dont think there is cover under this extension because 
the policy only provides cover for named diseases and Covid-19 isnt one of the diseases 
listed in the policy. 
I will therefore focus my decision on the extension for public emergency. The extension 
provides cover for:
Loss resulting from interruption or interference with the Business at the Premises 
in consequence of the actions or advice of a competent Public Authority, due to 
an emergency likely to endanger life of property, in the vicinity of the Premises, 
which commencing during the Period of Insurance prevents or hinders the use of 
or access to the Premises, excluding:

e infectious or contagious disease
In reaching a decision, one of the things Im required to take into account, is the relevant law.
I think the High Court judgment following the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case 
is relevant to Ss complaint, because the High Court considered similar terms within other 
insurers policies and these parts of the judgment werent appealed to the Supreme Court.
Paragraphs 466-467 of the judgment say:
we do not consider that the entire country can be described as in the vicinity of 
the insured premises on the wording of this policy. It follows that the government 
action and advice in response to the national pandemic cannot be said to be due 
to an emergency in the vicinity, in the sense of in the neighbourhood, of the 
insured premises.
         
There could only be cover under this wording if the insured could also 
demonstrate that it was an emergency by reason of COVID-19 in the vicinity, in 
that sense of the neighbourhood, of the insured premises, as opposed to the 
country as a whole, which led to the actions or advice of the government...
While the term considered wasnt exactly the same, I see no reason to depart from the 
judgment as I think this extension provides cover in the event of a local emergency. The 
lockdown imposed by the Government wasnt due to a localised emergency in this case. So, 
even without the exclusion for infectious or contagious diseases, I dont think this extension 
provides cover. 
Separately the Court considered another policy which included a similar exclusion to that 
within Ss policy. 
Paragraph 376 of the judgment says:
The order or advice contained in the 20 and 23 March government advice and in 
the 21 and 26 March Regulations was the order or advice of the competent local
authority, and was as a result of an occurrence (in fact many occurrences) of an
infectious disease. Accordingly, the carve-out applies and there is no cover under
either [this type of] wording in respect of the closure of or restriction in the use of 
the premises.
I again see no reason to depart from the position reached in the High Court judgment. I think 
the Government actions which impacted Ss business were as a result of Covid-19, which the World Health Organisations website describes as an infectious disease. So 
unfortunately, this extension doesnt provide cover for the circumstances of Ss claim.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr H was hoping for, but having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require UKI to pay Ss claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman