DRN-3613497
The complaint
Mrs J complains about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) for its handling 
of a theft claim of her property. She wants LV to pay her claim in full.
What happened
Mrs J enthusiastically collects jewellery and has done so since she was a child.
In August 2016, she took out home insurance with LV. The policy was sold over the phone, 
in a non-advised sale.
LV says that the person processing the policy sale would have asked Mrs J questions about 
her property and contents. LVs system would have estimated a contents valuation of 
£50,000 based on her property type and the number of people living at her address. LV says 
that the agent would have asked Mrs J if this cover would have been sufficient and explained 
that any claim would be reduced if she was under-insured.
Mrs J agreed that £50,000 was sufficient and purchased the policy. Policy documents were 
sent to her confirming the details of cover. These documents explained that she needed to 
ensure she was adequately covered as any claim would be reduced if she was 
underinsured.
Mrs J did not raise any concerns with her level of contents cover at that time and she 
renewed her policy in 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020. At each renewal she was asked to check 
her level of cover and was reminded in her paperwork that claims may be reduced for 
underinsurance.
Her level of cover remained at £50,000 throughout.
In late 2020, Mrs J suffered a theft. The thieves took around £33,500 worth of jewellery from 
Mrs Js home. Mrs J lodged a claim with LV. LV sent a loss adjuster to her home and Mrs J 
provided the loss adjuster with details and receipts for all the stolen jewellery, for which she 
had kept extensive records.
The loss adjuster noted that Mrs J still had a large amount of jewellery remaining and 
considered that before the theft she ought to have been insured for around £80,500 rather 
than £50,000. This assessment was made up for around £60,000 of jewellery and around 
£20,000 to £25,000 of other possessions.
Based on the loss adjusters assessment, LV relied upon its under-insurance clause and 
offered Mrs J a reduced settlement for her claim of nearly £21,000.
In early 2021, Mrs J suffered a further theft from her home. This time the thieves took around 
£17,000 worth of jewellery.
LV assessed the loss and considered that at the time of the second theft Mrs J was 
adequately covered. LV therefore offered her a settlement of £13,253 for that claim, which 
was based on the prices LV would pay for replacement jewellery through its suppliers.
Mrs J was not happy with this and, as a goodwill gesture, LV increased its offer on her 
second claim to the full value of nearly £17,000.
Mrs J complained about LVs assessment of the first claim. She felt that her claim should not 
be reduced because the value of the items stolen was less than the limit on her cover.
LV responded to Mrs Js complaint and did not uphold it. It set out the text in the policy which 
explained that a reduction would be made on any claim to reflect that she was under 
insured, and that she needed to ensure the sum insured was adequate for all her home 
contents.
Mrs J was not happy with this and contacted us.
Our investigator looked into this and did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He 
went through the way LV had applied the under-insurance clause to the first claim and was 
satisfied that LV had acted fairly.
Mrs J did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
I set out my view in a provisional decision issued in June 2022. In that I explained that I did 
not uphold Mrs Js complaint. This was because I considered that LV had given her enough 
information for her to understand how a valuation should be reached and she also had 
sufficient expertise and information in order to give an accurate representation of the value 
of her property. She therefore ought to have provided LV with accurate up to date 
information on the value of her collection. 
I considered that she had made a careless misrepresentation of the value of her property, 
and that LV had acted appropriately in light of that. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
comment. 
LV has responded setting out that it has nothing to add to the decision. 
Mrs J has said that the insurer didnt ask her about the value of her jewellery collection, and 
she disagrees with the valuation made by LVs assessors. She is very distressed by the way 
her claims have been handled and she doesnt think that she, or other consumers, should be 
expected to know the values of their jewellery, as values can change. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I greatly sympathise with Mrs J and it is clear that this whole experience has been very 
distressing for her. I hope that she will be able to recover from the violation the thieves have 
put her through. 
I have taken into account her comments, and her argument that the insurer did not ask for a 
valuation of her jewellery collection, but my view remains the same as in my provisional 
decision. I understand Mrs Js point that many consumers would not know the valuations of their 
jewellery as values of metals change over time, but in my view she was more sophisticated 
and knowledgeable about jewellery than an average consumer and had the ability and 
resources to properly assess the value of her collection. 
Mrs J has said that LV did not ask her the value of her collection, and I appreciate that if they 
had done so she may have been prompted to calculate or recalculate the value. I 
understand this may have helped her, but on the evidence available it appears that LV was 
not aware of the jewellery collection in order to ask more focussed questions. Consumers 
have a responsibility to offer up information that will be very relevant to the business and as I 
have previously set out, it is very relevant if a consumer has a substantial jewellery collection 
kept at home. 
I am very sorry for Mrs J that the thieves took so much from her, and that she has not 
recovered the full value of the items stolen, but overall I think LV has dealt with her claims 
reasonably, fairly and in line with the policy terms. 
As a result, whilst I know this will be disappointing to Mrs J, I do not uphold her complaint 
and do not ask Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to do anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I do not uphold Mrs Js 
complaint and do not ask Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to do anything 
further.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman