DRN-3159478
The complaint
Mr F says Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr F took out two instalment loans from Loans 2 Go in July 2020. He withdrew from the first 
agreement (for £400 over 18-months) and repaid the capital in full the day after the loan was 
given. The second loan was for £600 and was taken out on 30 July 2020 over an 18-month 
term. The monthly repayment was £137.13 and the total repayable was £2,468.34. I 
understand there is an outstanding balance.
Mr F says he was already struggling financially. He couldnt afford the repayments and has 
had to borrow from friends and family. He is also unhappy with the amount of interest he has 
been charged. 
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. He said as Mr F never paid any interest on 
the first loan there was no loss or detriment to investigate. He didnt think Loans 2 Go was 
wrong to give the second loan to Mr F. He said its checks were proportionate and didnt 
show anything that ought to have led the lender to make a different decision or make further 
checks. Finally, he said the loan agreement made clear what the interest rate was as well as 
the value of the interest payable.
Mr F disagreed with this assessment. He said he had a County Court Judgement (CCJ) 
dated 16 September 2015 that Loans 2 Go hadnt provided information on, and this has 
recently been removed from his credit file. The adjudicator acknowledged that he had given 
the incorrect date in his assessment for the CCJ. He confirmed he had been referring to the 
September 2015 CCJ. This would have recently been removed from his credit file as it was 
now over six years old. 
As an agreement wasnt reached, Mr Fs complaint was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Loans 2 Go lent to Mr F required it to carry out a
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Loans 2 Go had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mr F. In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr F.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for. In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to before agreeing
to lend to Mr F. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mr Fs loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in
a sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
- did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Loans 2 Go asked for some information from Mr F before it approved the loan. It
asked for his monthly income and expenditure. It then completed an income verification
check with a third party to establish his minimum income and it increased his declared
expenditure to ensure it was reasonable based on national statistics. It also added a buffer 
for unplanned costs. It checked Mr Fs credit file to understand his existing monthly credit 
commitments and credit history. From these checks combined Loans 2 Go concluded Mr F 
had enough disposable income for the loan to be affordable.
I think these checks were proportionate given the loan value, the term and the monthly 
repayment as a percentage of Mr Fs declared income (£1,500). And I dont think there was 
anything in the information it gathered that ought to have led the lender to be concerned the 
loan might not be sustainably affordable for Mr F. This is not to say I doubt Mr Fs testimony 
that he was struggling financially, rather that I dont think it would have been proportionate 
for the lender to carry out more detailed checks given the terms of the loan and the 
information it had gathered. It carried out a credit check and this showed Mr F had very little 
active debt, only £47 on a bank account at the time of his application. There was a CCJ 
registered against him in September 2015, possibly for an account that had defaulted in 
2014 that also showed on his file. However given the time since these events and the fact
Mr F had barely used credit since then I think it was reasonable for Loans 2 Go to conclude 
that Mr Fs finances had stabilised. I cant see the credit check gave the lender any reason to 
doubt or verify the information Mr F had provided.
It follows I dont think Loans 2 Go was wrong to lend to Mr F. 
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?Mr F was also unhappy with the amount of interest charged. I accept the interest rate was 
high, but Mr F had to actively engage in the application process, so I think its likely that he 
was aware of what he was agreeing to pay. The interest rate, the APR and the value of the 
interest payable were clearly set out on the Pre-Contract Credit Information and on the Loan 
Agreement that Mr F signed electronically. I havent seen anything which makes me think 
that Loans 2 Go treated Mr F unfairly or breached industry practice regarding interest 
charges. 
My final decision
For the reason set out above I am not upholding Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman