DRN-4494915
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N are unhappy with how Great Lakes Insurance SE settled a claim they made 
on their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs N held an annual policy with Great Lakes and had paid for an add on for cruise 
cover. They tested positive for Covid-19 whilst on a cruise holiday. In line with the relevant 
countrys health regulations, they spent 7 days in isolation. So, they missed part of their 
cruise and incurred additional expenses. 
Great Lakes agreed to cover the claim and offered a settlement figure. They then offered a 
reduced settlement. Mr and Mrs N complained about the settlement figure and delays in 
handling the claim. In particular they were unhappy that Great Lakes hadnt covered the part 
of their cruise that was cut short and train tickets.  
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint. She thought that 
Great Lakes should pay £150 compensation for the extensive delays in handling the claim. 
And she also thought that Great Lakes should settle the curtailment claim and pay 8% 
simple interest because she didnt think the limitations on cover for contracting Covid-19 
were clear from the policy terms. She didnt think Great Lakes needed to cover the train 
tickets. 
Mr and Mrs N accepted the investigators findings. Great Lakes didnt agree and asked an 
ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary, they said there was no cover because 
there wasnt an insured event and there was a relevant general exclusion which applied to 
all the policy terms.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions
The core cover for curtailment and loss of holiday is set out on page 28 of the policy. It says: 
Loss of Holiday
The number of complete days that You are confined to a hospital, hotel room or 
cabin on the orders of Your treating Medical Practitioner during the period of Your 
Insured Journey, due to Your Bodily Injury or Illness
This section of the Policy sets out the cover We provide to each Insured Person in 
total per Insured Journey, up to the sum insured shown in the Table of Benefits", 
following necessary and unavoidable Curtailment of, or Loss of Holiday on, an 
Insured Journey as a result of:
1. The death, Bodily Injury or Illness, as certified by a Medical Practitioner, of You, 
Your Relative, Colleague or travelling companion or of a friend with whom you 
had arranged to stay. 
What is covered
1. Your reasonable additional travel and accommodation expenses which You incur 
in the Curtailment of Your Insured Journey; and
2. A pro-rata amount corresponding to the cost of the unused proportion of.
a. Your non-refundable pre-booked travel and accommodation expenses 
which You have paid or are contracted to pay; and
b. Your non-refundable pre-booked airport parking, car hire, airport lounge 
pass and excursions which You have paid or are contracted to pay; and
c. Your non-refundable visa, ESTA (Electronic System for Travel 
Authorisation for travellers to the USA) or other relevant travel permission 
which You have paid.
Section 20 sets out the Covid-19 cover on pages 72 and 73 of the policy. It says: 
PLEASE NOTE: this section of cover extends the cover provided under the 
"Emergency medical and repatriation expenses, "Cancellation and "Curtailment and 
loss of holiday sections of this Policy as follows:
Curtailment
We provide to each Insured Person in total per Insured Journey, up to the sum 
insured shown in the "Table of Benefits", following necessary and unavoidable 
Curtailment of an Insured Journey as a result of:
1. Death of Your Relative or a member of Your household living in the United 
Kingdom contracting COVID-19, as certified by a Medical Practitioner following a 
medically approved test showing a positive result for COVID-19 or having a 
confirmed temperature above 38 degrees Celsius.
2. The hospitalisation as a result of COVID-19 for treatment with mechanical 
ventilation, of Your Relative or a member of Your household living in the United 
Kingdom.
In addition, where You are unable to continue with a pre-booked excursion 
following Your self-isolation as ordered by a relevant Government authority due 
to contracting COVID-19, as certified by a Medical Practitioner following a 
medically approved test showing a positive result for COVID-19.
What is covered
1. Your reasonable additional travel and accommodation expenses which You 
incur in the Curtailment of Your Insured Journey; and
2. A pro-rata amount corresponding to the cost of the unused proportion of:a. Your non-refundable pre-booked travel and accommodation expenses which 
You have paid or are contracted to pay; and
b. Your non-refundable pre-booked airport parking, car hire, airport lounge pass 
and excursions which You have paid or are contracted to pay; and
c. Your non-refundable visa, ESTA (Electronic System for Travel Authorisation for 
travellers to the USA) or other relevant travel permission which You have paid.
Under the same section there is cover for emergency medical and repatriation expenses. It 
says: 
Emergency medical and repatriation expenses
C.1. Trips outside the United Kingdom
We provide to each Insured Person in total, up to the sums insured shown in the  
Table of Benefits", in the event of an unforeseen medical emergency during an 
Insured Journey outside the United Kingdom as a result of You contracting COVID-
19, as certified by a Medical Practitioner following a medically approved test showing 
a positive result for COVlD-19.
What is covered
1. Emergency medical and repatriation expenses.-
a. Reasonable and necessary medical and hospital expenses, including the 
cost of ambulance transport where medically necessary to take You to 
hospital; and
b. Returning You to the United Kingdom provided this is medically safe and 
authorised by Us or Our Assistance Company; and
c. The cost of a medical escort where this is deemed necessary by Us or Our 
Assistance Company, in the event of Your emergency repatriation to the 
United Kingdom; and
2. Reasonable additional travel and accommodation expenses (room only) for You to 
extend Your stay until You are medically fit to return to the United Kingdom; and
3. Reasonable additional travelling and accommodation expenses to repatriate You 
to the United Kingdom when You are denied boarding on Your pre-booked return 
travel due to You contracting COVID-19,
4. Confinement benefit-, a benefit payment of £30 for each complete 24 hour period 
up to £300 where You are ordered into self-isolation in Your holiday accommodation 
by a relevant Government authority, as a result of You contracting COVID-19.
There is a general exclusion on page 81 of the policy which says there is no cover for: 
Any coronavirus including but not limited to COVID-19, or any related/mutated form 
of the virus. This exclusion does not apply to COVID-19 claims under the COVID-19 
cover section of this policy.   
Has Great Lakes unfairly declined the claim for curtailment of the cruise? The Covid-19 section of cover doesnt specifically cover the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Ns claim for the unused proportion of their cruise. However, I dont think it is fair 
and reasonable for Great Lakes to decline Mr and Mrs Ns claim for the curtailment of their 
cruise.  
There is cover under the core section of cover for additional and unused travel and 
accommodation expenses. Mr and Mrs N were confined to a room due to testing positive for 
Covid-19, which is an illness. So, I think they reasonably expected to be able to claim on the 
curtailment section of the policy because they were unwell and confined to a room. That is 
covered under the policy terms.  
The Covid-19 section of cover is presented as an extension of the core cover available 
under the curtailment section of the policy. So, I think its fair and reasonable to conclude 
that this was an enhancement or addition to the cover under the core section as opposed to 
a limitation on cover. The terms dont clearly or transparently explain that the core cover is 
subject to different provisions relating to Covid-19 and the general exclusion. I think that this 
is a significant limitation on cover which ought to be more clearly highlighted. 
I dont think the policy terms make it clear or transparent how the core cover, the Covid-19 
section of cover and the general exclusion operate. Although there is a general exclusion for 
Covid-19 this has to be considered in the context of how the overall policy terms are 
presented, particularly given that Covid-19 cover is presented as an enhancement of the 
core cover. So, I dont think its fair in the circumstances of this case for Great Lakes to rely 
on the general exclusion because of how the overall cover for Covid-19 is presented.  
In any event, I also think the way the information about Covid-19 cover is presented is 
unclear and ambiguous  if there is any ambiguity its interpreted in Mr and Mrs Ns favour. 
So, that further persuades me its fair and reasonable for their unused cruise expenses to be 
covered. 
Was the claim handled promptly? 
Great Lakes didnt provide any further information about the delays Mr and Mrs N 
experienced when the claim was assessed. It took a very long time for the claim to be settled 
and theres no compelling reasons why that was the case. 
I think its fair that Great Lakes pay £150 compensation for the delays in settling the claim. I 
think this reflects the distress and inconvenience caused by unnecessarily waiting a very 
long time to hear the outcome of their claim and being given an incorrect settlement figure 
which was later revised.  
Putting things right
Great Lakes needs to put things right by: 
Settling the claim on the basis that Mr and Mrs N curtailment claim is covered under 
the core curtailment section of cover. The claim is subject to the any other relevant 
terms or policy limits. 
Paying 8% simple interest on this settlement, from the date the offer to cover this was 
initially made (24 March 2023), to the date it was settled. If Great Lakes considers 
that its required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs N how much its taken off. It should also give them 
a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Paying Mr and Mrs N £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ns complaint about Great Lakes Insurance SE and direct them to 
put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman