DRN-3420337
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Mrs J is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around February 2017, Mrs J and her husband (Mr J) were contacted by a 
representative of a company Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the 
system) to be installed at their home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and 
Mrs J decided to purchase the system and finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan 
agreement with Shawbrook. Mrs J was the only borrower under the loan agreement. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In 2018 Mr J complained to P that the system was underperforming. P paid him 
compensation and fixed the problem, and Mr J signed an agreement in which he accepted 
this in full and final settlement of that issue.
In May 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mrs Js behalf under section 75 of the 
Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations about 
the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mrs J to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system was documented as £9,950 to mislead Mrs J, as when 
the interest was added the total cost was actually £18,908.20;
the system would generate free electricity, which could be sold to the national grid;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on her electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the finance agreement repayments costs.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mrs J or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
(However it did offer her £200 compensation for its delay in responding to the complaint, and 
Mrs J has accepted that offer. I am not considering that issue in this decision.)
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mrs J and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the salesman had never shown Mrs J the quotation document on which the 
adjudicator had relied, since he had mostly spoken to her husband;
although the quote says that the system would not be self-funding until after 15 
years, the salesman had not explained that to Mr or Mrs J during the sales meeting;
Mr J was elderly and hard of hearing, and the salesman had taken advantage of that;
where a person is unaware that a representation is false, the fact that they could 
have found out it was false by taking reasonable care is not a defence in law.1
The CMC added that part of the system should have been installed in the attic, but this had 
proved not to be possible, and so it had been installed in the porch instead. Mrs J had not 
been told in advance that the installers would need to be able to access the attic.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mrs J paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs J could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs J and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing her loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mrs J says that during a sales meeting she was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with Mrs Js testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to 
decide on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
1 Citing Chitty on Contracts (34th edition), paragraph 9-051.P would have discussed this in detail with Mrs J, explaining any benefits of the system, prior 
to her agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mrs Js 
version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
Mrs J has said that the cost of the system was documented as £9,950, and that this was 
done to mislead her as this figure did not include any interest associated with the loan and 
so hid the true cost of the system, £18,908.20.
On balance, Im satisfied that Mrs J was told that the overall cost of the system was 
£18,908.20. The quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement, 
which makes it clear that although the cash price of the system is £9,950, interest would also 
be charged. It sets out a clear breakdown of the deposit, the amount of credit provided, the 
total charge for credit, the monthly payments, and the total amount repayable, £18,908.20.
Having considered all the evidence, including Mrs Js recollections, Im satisfied that she was 
told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, as set 
out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit 
agreement, made it clear that it would cost Mrs J more than the cash price as she had 
decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan.
FIT payments and savings
Mrs J has said that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on her energy bills. Ive considered the quote 
that was provided by P as well as Mrs Js recollections of her meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mrs J could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mrs J could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £104.96, which results in an average monthly income of £8.75. Im 
satisfied that the same document set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due 
of £105.25  which is almost exactly the same figure as the total FIT income in year one. As 
a result, Im not able to conclude that Mrs J was told that the monthly loan repayments would 
be covered by the FIT payments.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mrs J could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £186.70 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mrs J, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £782.60. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mrs J entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £105.25. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement gives 
the correct monthly figure of £104.49, but the difference  76p  is too small to affect the 
following observations.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the expected grand total 
return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment of £105.25, to give an average difference between the monthly 
return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative 
figure for the first eight years of the loan, meaning that the system would take over eight 
years to begin to make enough money to cover the loan payments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mrs J could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the 
monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income she could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be immediately sufficient 
to cover the monthly loan repayments. This supports my finding above that Mrs J wasnt told 
that the FIT payments would cover the loan repayments. Ive carefully thought about Mrs Js 
version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part of the sales 
process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably 
find that she was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income 
and savings.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mrs J that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the 76p discrepancy 
in the monthly payments). That section of the quote has been signed by Mr J, so Im 
satisfied that P did enough to bring it to his attention. On balance Im also satisfied that the 
salesperson referred to the table at the meeting. If Mrs J relied on her husband to review the 
quote for her, then that was her choice. If he was hard of hearing, then I think that would 
have made it all the more important, and more likely, that he would read the quote carefully, 
instead of relying on verbal representations by the salesperson.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out there would be a difference between the expected income and 
the monthly loan repayments.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mrs J was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote has a graph detailing the estimated performance over 25 
years. This shows that it would take 10 years for the overall benefits that Mrs J could expect 
to receive to match the cash price of the system.
I think the 10-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on 
page 2, and so I dont consider that it needed further explaining.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
25 years. This shows that by the end of year 15 the overall benefits that Mrs J could expect 
to receive would have reached £18,888.66, which is almost as much as the total amount 
payable under the loan agreement, £18,908.20.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mrs J that the system would pay for its cash 
price in 10 years, and for the loan in about 15 years, as supported by the graph and the table 
above, which were included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im 
satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into the contract, and she subsequently 
suffered a loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
I am not going to reconsider the earlier problems with the systems performance, as that 
matter was resolved by P to Mr Js satisfaction at the time, and I think it is fair to hold Mrs J 
to that agreement. Im satisfied that the system is now performing as expected.
I have however considered why the system is still not performing as well as P estimated in 
terms of pounds sterling, even though it is now performing as estimated in terms of kWh.
I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mrs J hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mrs J could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mrs J entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mrs J to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman