DRN-1088075
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Legal & General Insurance Limited ("L&G") unfairly declined a 
claim they submitted for damage to their property on a buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S rent out a property and insure it with L&G. Following a period of bad weather, 
there was damage to the roof and water had caused an internal ceiling to collapse.
L&G initially declined their claim as it said the weather conditions at the time of the damage 
hadnt amounted to a storm. But it changed its view and appointed an agent to assess the 
damage and determine whether the claim should be covered.
After the agent completed its enquiries, L&G declined to cover the claim. It said the damage 
to the roof and internal damage was caused by wear and tear issues, not a storm. Mr and 
Mrs S disputed this. They said the roof had been damaged by the storm, not wear and tear. 
They also disputed L&Gs conclusion that the internal damage had been caused by wear 
and tear.
When L&G maintained its position, Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to us. Our 
investigator said he didnt think L&G had done anything wrong. He said the agents report 
gave details as to why it thought the damage had been caused by wear and tear, whereas a 
roofer appointed by Mr and Mrs S hadnt explained why it thought the damage was caused 
by the storm. Mr and Mrs S didnt accept this, and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service normally looks at three questions when dealing with a complaint about storm 
damage. Firstly, we look at whether there were storm conditions at the time of the damage. 
Then well consider whether the damage claimed for is typical of storm damage. And finally 
well look at whether the storm is the main cause of the damage being claimed. 
There was initially a dispute as to whether the conditions at the time the damage occurred 
constituted a storm. Mr and Mrs S policy defines a storm as strong winds of 41 knots/47 
mph or more, sometimes accompanied by rain, hail or snow. L&G said the nearest weather 
station to the property recorded a wind speed of 46mph, but was willing to accept the winds 
may have been higher at the property.  This isnt in dispute now, so I accept the conditions at 
the time constituted a storm for the purposes of this policy. 
Im also satisfied that the damage is consistent with what could be caused by a storm. 
Theres evidence that roof tiles have moved from their original position and some have fallen 
from the roof onto the ground below. I think this is consistent with damage that could be 
caused by high winds. And if the roof has been damaged, I think it's plausible that water 
could then enter the property and cause damage internally.So I now need to consider whether Im satisfied that the storm was the main cause of the 
damage being claimed. And this is where the dispute arises between Mr and Mrs S and 
L&G. The policy says theres no cover for wear and tear, maintenance costs e.g.loose roof 
tiles, damage that happens over time e.g. damp, rot
Mr and Mrs S maintain the property was in a good state of repair. But L&G argue there was 
evidence of moisture causing damp and rot, which caused the ceiling to collapse, rather than 
the ingress of water after the roof was damaged. And it also disputes that the storm caused 
the tiles to move and fall to the ground. It says the tiles were moved in the high winds 
because nails which secured them failed due to being in a poor condition.
L&G relies on its agents report which detailed why it thought nail fatigue caused the tiles to 
move. The report particularly noted that nail holes in the tiles were intact, and I can see that 
photos weve been provided show this. This suggests that the nails have failed, rather than 
remaining in place when the tiles have moved. If the nails have failed, that would be 
considered wear and tear, and so damage caused as a result wouldn't be covered by the 
policy. Im aware Mr and Mrs S have provided photos showing tiles with damaged nail holes 
and an email from a roofer saying the damage was consistent with storm damage. 
So it may be that some of the tiles were damaged by the storm. But the evidence of the 
roofer doesnt give any detail about the tiles where the holes were consistent with nail 
fatigue. On balance Im not persuaded that the main cause of damage to the roof was the 
storm. Theres enough evidence from the agents findings to suggest wear and tear was a 
significant cause of the damage. And the policy specifically says damage caused by wear 
and tear, including loose tiles, isnt covered.
L&G also says that the cause of the internal damage was due to the ingress of water over a 
period of time. In support of this it relies on its agents findings that there was staining and 
mould in the ceiling which collapsed. Im satisfied based on this evidence that the damage 
was caused by water entering the roof and ceiling area over time. The policy specifically 
excludes damage that occurs over time. 
So Im satisfied L&Gs shown that the main cause of the damage claimed wasnt the storm. 
The evidence supports L&Gs argument that the damage was caused by wear and tear over 
time. And the policy terms and conditions state that damage caused in that way isnt 
covered. I dont think L&G have acted unreasonably by declining cover for the claim.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 March 2020.
Ben Williams
Ombudsman