DRN-1959414
The complaint
Ms A complains about the fee Action 365 Ltd charged her when her motor insurance policy 
was cancelled.
What happened
Ms A took out a motor insurance policy through Action 365, covering her car for 12 months. 
Four months later, Ms A phoned Action 365 to change the vehicle on the policy. But the 
advisor told Ms A they couldn't quote for the new vehicle and Action 365 would need to 
cancel her policy. The advisor told her shed be charged a cancellation fee and let her know 
the amount of premiums to be refunded.
Ms A complained to Action 365 because she thought the cancellation fee of £75 was unfair. 
She wanted to continue with the policy, but Action 365 said it couldn't provide cover.
Action 365 didn't agree it had treated Ms A unfairly. It said the cancellation charges were 
included in the terms and conditions Ms A had agreed to when she took out the policy.
Ms A remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Ms As concerns but didn't think her complaint should be upheld. 
She thought it was fair for Action 365 to charge Ms A the cancellation fee because the terms 
and conditions said this would be applied regardless of who cancelled the policy.
Ms A disagreed with our investigators view, so her complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms As complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant industry rules require Action 365 to act honestly, fairly and professionally, in 
accordance with Ms As best interests.
Its unfortunate that Action 365 wasn't able to provide cover for Ms As new car. But its not 
the role of this service to tell an insurance intermediary the products it needs to provide. And 
as Action 365 wasn't able to amend Ms As policy to provide the cover she needed, I think it 
was reasonable to cancel it. 
The terms of agreement Action 365 sent to Ms A lists the payments it charges for its 
services. It says the fee for cancellation after 14 days is £75. In the Cancellation of 
Insurances section the terms say:
If your policy is cancelled after the 14 day period an administration charge of up to £75.00 
will apply.It also says:
In circumstances where we feel that we cannot continue providing services to you, we will 
give you a minimum of 7 days-notice. You may also cancel your policy at any time. In both 
circumstances you will be required to pay for any transactions concluded prior to the end of 
our relationship. We will be entitled to retain commission and any discounts that applied 
when were arranged your insurance, together with all fees charged by us for services 
provided.
I appreciate Ms A feels it wasn't fair for Action 365 to charge her a cancellation fee when she 
didn't want to cancel the policy. Her intention was for Action 365 to amend her existing policy 
to provide cover for the car shed bought to replace her old one. And the cancellation fee 
was higher than the fee for amending the policy.
But I think its clear from the terms that the cancellation fee was applicable regardless of 
whose decision it was to cancel the policy. And as Ive said, I think it was reasonable for 
Action 365 to cancel Ms As policy under the circumstances. So, I dont think its acted 
unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman