DRN-2653481
The complaint
Mr H complains that Financial Administration Services Limited overcharged him in respect of 
ongoing fund/investment fees. Hes received statements which confirm the charges were 
higher in 2018 than 2019 and FASL has not provided an adequate explanation.
What happened
FASLs statement for the period December 2018 to November 2019 confirmed an ongoing 
charge figure (OCF) of £86.53. The same figure for the year ending December 2018 was 
£116.50. 
Mr H said hed researched the OCF information on his investment investment and found that 
on several fund factsheets for 2018 the OCF was reported as 0.86%.
FASL confirmed that it gets its OCF data from Morningstar who in turn receive the 
information directly from fund providers. FASL have advised the figure reported for the whole 
of 2018 was 1.24%.
FASL, when questioned about the discrepancy between the figures, confirmed that the 
correct amount was deducted from the fund and would have been taken by the third-party 
fund manager and therefore match their prevailing OCF. FASL said that the fund manager 
does not charge Mr H in relation to the OCF neither has it passed on any of the charge to 
him. The OCF simply indicates the running cost of the fund.
FASL said that the correct OCF had been deducted as its done at source by the fund 
manager. It has no involvement in this at all. If Morningstar reported incorrect data this would 
not have impacted Mr Hs investment.
An investigator at this service said she wouldnt consider it unusual for a platform to use data 
providers for information like OCFs considering the vast number of funds that they deal with 
on a daily basis. So, while the information Mr H found on the factsheets led him to believe 
the charges were wrong, she was satisfied that the explanation FASL provided 
demonstrated that this was not the case. Overall, she had not seen anything that showed 
extra charges have been applied.
She noted that FASL had recognised that Mr H was given mis-information on the phone and 
that there were avoidable delays, and compensated Mr H £225 for these mistakes. She felt 
this was in line with the amount she would have suggested if it had not made this offer.
She understood how confusing the figures would have looked at first glance as those being 
reported by the fund factsheet didnt match those that FASL were reporting. However, she 
didnt think FASL had intentionally misled Mr H. as it was acting on the information they 
received from Morningstar.
Mr H did not agree, and said:
The investigator concluded that Fidelity had not overcharged him, rather it had 
misreported the fees; but it is irrelevant to him whether Morningstars figures were 
inaccurate. It is Fidelitys job to ensure the information it supplies is accurate
If this misreporting affected everyone that holds a Fidelity account, shouldnt it be 
informing him and everyone affected of Fidelitys error?
Are Fidelity legally obliged to accurately report charges on his account?
What is going to motivate them to provide accurate reports to their customers in the 
future?
He didnt believe Fidelity intentionally misled him, however they are intentionally 
avoiding fixing an error that one of their customers has brought to their attention, 
which for a large organisation that is surely looking to constantly improve is 
unacceptable
The investigator responded, saying:
While the figures may have been misreported, Mr H had not lost out as a result of 
this
It isnt reasonable to expect Fidelity to analyse every OCF made on every account 
held with them, as they have hundreds of thousands of accounts
Its not in our services remit to ask businesses to change their processes  its just 
something we cant ask them to do
Although as a service we have to take account of regulations, the law and good 
industry practice, ultimately, we are required to base our findings on what is fair and 
reasonable.
Whilst she could fully appreciate that Mr H has concerns on behalf of other investors 
and how they might have been affected by whats happened, as a service, we only 
look at individual complaints
 So, she is limited to commenting on how its affected Mr H. If other investors were 
also unhappy with Fidelity, they would also be able to bring complaints to our service 
where we could address the merits of each in turn
Mr H did not accept this explanation, and said:
Are Fidelity legally obliged to send him an accurate statement, including the fees 
deducted at source?
Fidelity said: Statements will not show any Ongoing Charge Figures (OCFs) for the 
customers chosen funds as these are not taken directly from the individual customer 
but from the underlying fund by the relevant fund management company
But his Fidelity statement period to 31-Dec-2018 did show an OCF (contrary to their 
statement), it is the accuracy of that stated OCF he is disputing
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons. As such, I will not repeat 
all her comments about why this services role is to deal with individual complaints rather 
than broader concerns about a business operation.
I would however add that it is the Financial Conduct Authoritys role to oversee the industry 
including looking into any concerns about either Fidelity or Morningstars use of data.In responses to Mr Hs further queries, the investigator sought further information from 
Fidelity. In my view, it fully explains the issue Mr H complains about and I am satisfied that 
its approach is in line with industry practice and is also fair and reasonable. It said:
 Our Statements show the transactions on a customers account which will include any 
service or adviser fees deducted. Statements will not show any Ongoing Charge Figures 
(OCFs) for the customers chosen funds as these are not taken directly from the individual 
customer but from the underlying fund by the relevant fund management company.
The fund information documents provided by the third-party fund managers, available on our 
website and required to be read before investing, detail fund charge information such as the
fund OCF.
The information on our Annual Costs & Charges Summary is calculated from the information 
provided by reputable industry sources and we run basic parameter checks, looking for 
nonsensical data or extreme data.
What is important to stress is that the deductions Mr H refers to are not those made by 
Fidelity but by the fund managers of the underlying funds. Fidelity is not responsible for 
these.
From what Ive read, I am satisfied that Fidelity did not do anything wrong in merely reporting 
the fund charges as shown by Morningstar. I am also satisfied that Mr H has not been 
overcharged for the reasons explained by Fidelity and supported by the investigators 
enquiries. The evidence indicates that the fund managers in question altered the underlying 
charges on a monthly basis and this explains why Mr Hs charges varied. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman