DRN-2194888
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited have terminated a 
claim she made on her employers income protection scheme.
  
What happened
Mrs C is a beneficiary of her employers group income protection scheme. Shes been away 
from work due to long term sickness for over 10 years. She has a degenerative back 
condition which she says stops her from being able to drive for long periods of time which is 
a key part of her job. 
Mrs Cs claim is regularly reviewed and in March 2018 L&G asked for an update from her 
GP. A rehabilitation report was completed in November 2018 and a Mrs C was referred for a 
Functional Capability Assessment (FCA). L&G also decided to conduct surveillance of Mrs C 
at around that time. Based on the results of the FCA and surveillance L&G decided to 
terminate the claim in March 2019. Mrs C appealed but L&G maintained their decision 
because they said Mrs C had sufficient functional ability to carry out her insured role. 
Mrs C made a complaint to our service. In summary, she didnt think L&G had treated her 
fairly because her job role involved a lot of driving. She said that her back condition is worse 
than it was 11 years ago. She also said that the available medical evidence and other 
information demonstrated that she is unable to carry out her own occupation due to her 
diagnosed illness and therefore her claim should be reinstated. 
An investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs C made 
further representations and the case was reallocated because the first investigator left our 
service. The second investigator reviewed the evidence again and upheld Mrs Cs complaint. 
He thought that L&G hadnt demonstrated that Mrs C could drive as much as 20, 000 miles 
per year as required by her role. And, bearing in mind that the burden of proof was on L&G 
to demonstrate that Mrs C no longer met the definition of incapacity, he didnt think that L&G 
had demonstrated it was fair to stop paying the claim taking into account the overall 
evidence. 
Mrs C accepted the investigators findings but L&G didnt agree. They made a number of 
detailed points. In summary they said that the investigator had relied on an expert report that 
commented speculatively on Mrs Cs ability to drive having first seen Mrs C after the date the 
claim was terminated. They also said it wasnt the insurers responsibility to enforce 
reasonable adjustments or accommodations on an employer. And they also provided further 
commentary on the surveillance from the company who had completed the FCA which they 
said supported the decision theyd taken. L&G says that the FCA together with the 
surveillance supports their decision to decline the claim. 
So, I need to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L&G accepted Mrs Cs claim so it needs to demonstrate that, on balance, their decision to 
terminate paying the claim was fair. Mrs C doesnt need to prove that it was. Ive carefully 
considered all the points L&G and Mrs C have referred to but Ill only refer to those which I 
think are central to my decision. 
The relevant policy terms and conditions
Under the policy terms and conditions L&G can end the benefit if the insured member
(Mrs C) ceases to be a disabled member. 
A disabled member means an insured member who, in L&Gs opinion, meets the definition 
of incapacity and who is not engaged in any other occupation. 
Theres also a discretion for L&G to make payments towards the cost of facilitating the 
members return to work including private medical treatment, occupational therapy or the 
provision of specialist equipment or training. 
L&G hasnt been able to provide a copy of the policy schedule, despite the policy still being 
in force. But the definition of own occupation means the insured member: 
(i) Is incapacitated by a specific, diagnosed illness or injury which prevents him 
from performing the essential duties of the job he carried out under his 
contract of employments immediately before the start of the deferred period, 
and
(ii) Continues to be in employment. 
The insured members capacity to perform the essential duties of his own occupation 
will be determined whether or not that occupation remains available to him. 
If following the start of benefit payments under the policy a disabled member is no 
longer in employment the above definition will not apply and change to suited 
occupation. 
What was Mrs Cs own occupation? 
Mrs Cs own occupation before she became absent from work is recorded on the claims 
form from 2008 as being an area representative. Its not in dispute that this involved travel 
across a relatively large geographical area. On the claim form it says that she was required 
to drive to do her job and her mileage was recorded as approximately 20, 000 miles per 
year. She was provided with a company car and was expected to spend a significant amount 
of time driving between appointments. 
Mrs Cs job description has changed slightly whilst shes been off. But her employer has 
confirmed that shed now be covering a wider geographical area and the physical demands 
of her job would be similar. They also clarified that traditionally driving two to three hours a 
day would be part of the job and driving would remain an essential element of the job, 
regardless of the impact of Covid-19 on the ability to conduct meetings in person. Did L&G fairly terminate Mrs Cs claim?
Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint as I dont think it was fair and reasonable for L&G to 
terminate her claim for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
I dont think that the surveillance footage carries as much weight as L&G have suggested. 
Mrs C is seen driving but, based on the evidence Ive been provided with, the duration of 
those trips was relatively limited. And, on one of the days Mrs C was attending an 
appointment L&G had arranged for her. On that date she was seen walking, shopping and 
sitting to have a coffee. But, in the circumstances of this case, I dont think it follows that the 
evidence strongly supports her ability to drive frequently for long periods of time. 
I note, for example, that Mrs C took the train to her appointment, rather than driving all the 
way and she wasnt seen sitting for a long period of time. Ive taken into account that on 
another day Mrs C was seen to be spending time with her family, and that included bowling. 
But I also bear in mind what shes said about the final day of surveillance where she wasnt 
seen to leave the house at all. Shes explained that following two days of increased activity 
she was in pain and had to remain at home. So that is consistent with the surveillance 
footage.  
Ive also taken into account the relationship between the functional capability report and the 
surveillance footage. I dont think the surveillance evidence is inconsistent with the FCA or 
the report from the consultant - Mrs C had to stand up twice during the appointment and was 
only seated during a short period of time when having a coffee. Whilst she was seen 
shopping Mrs C did say that was something she did occasionally during the report. 
L&G has, more recently, asked the company who authored the FCA to comment on it. But 
they didnt have that information or evidence at the point they terminated the claim. And I 
think its something they ought to have considered in more detail before deciding to 
terminate the claim at that point, particularly given that the surveillance, in my opinion, took 
place over quite a short period of time and didnt demonstrate Mrs Cs ability to frequently 
drive for long periods of time which is the key issue in this case. 
I also bear in mind that Mrs C saw a rheumatology consultant in April 2019 to arrange a 
further scan on her back. He described her as having advanced degenerative disease. In a 
follow up letter he said that her back had degenerated further from a medical point of view 
since his previous involvement in her case approximately ten years ago.  
Mrs C also provided a report from a consultant spinal surgeon dated October 2019. In that 
report he thoroughly set out the symptoms Mrs C reported including pain during periods of 
prolonged sitting. He physically examined Mrs C and had access to an MRI scan completed 
earlier that year. He concluded that there had been more substantial degenerative changes 
and said: 
She has degenerative changes at the L3/4, L4/5 and L5/S1, most marked at L4/5. 
The symptoms she describes of her back pain are likely to relate to the facet joint 
degenerative changes and the disc dehydration and loss of height. The tightness in 
the region of the right leg is likely to be associated with some L5 nerve root irritations, 
also consistent with the symptoms she describes at times. Given Mrs Cs current description of her severe lower back pain being exacerbated 
by periods of being seated for more than 20 minutes, I can see that it would be 
impossible for her to return to a job with a driving commitment of 20, 000 to 30, 000 
miles a year, as the regular breaks she would need to take would prevent her from 
covering that mileage. 
L&G argues that this report post dates their decision to terminate the claim. But I do think its 
relevant to understanding Mrs Cs condition and whether she could work in her own 
occupation. This report has been completed by a specialist who has both physically 
examined Mrs C and had access to an MRI scan from the relevant period of time, which was 
around the time the claim was terminated. 
I think the evidence provided in this report does contain information about the state of 
Mrs Cs health during the relevant period as she had the FCA and was under surveillance in 
February 2019. The consultant commented on an MRI which seems most likely to have 
taken place in March or April 2019.  
The report also contains further evidence which confirms a basis for Mrs Cs symptoms and 
explains that there has been a further degeneration in her spine. So, I think it gives a clinical 
context to Mrs Cs condition and confirms that there is a clinical reason behind her 
symptoms, as opposed to simply self-reported symptoms. So, I think the content of this 
report is important in placing the FCA and surveillance into a wider context. 
Overall, based on the evidence presented, Im satisfied that driving for long periods of time 
was an essential part of Mrs Cs job immediately before the deferred period and remains so. 
I dont think its fair for L&G to reference the impact of Covid-19 given that they terminated 
the claim well before Covid-19 was known to be in existence. So, I dont think thats a 
relevant consideration in the circumstances of this case. 
Ive also taken into account L&Gs representations about Mrs Cs employer legally having to 
make adjustments for her. But I cant see that this formed a significant or considered part of 
L&Gs initial decision to stop paying benefit. And I also havent seen evidence that theyve 
taken steps to identify or discuss adjustments following the receipt of the FCA and 
surveillance footage. As I outlined at the beginning of my decision, they have a discretion to 
do so under the policy terms. Given the length of time Mrs C has been absent from work, 
and all of the circumstances Ive outlined above its disappointing to see that this wasnt 
explored in more detail before the claim was terminated.    
Putting things right
Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint and directing L&G to put things right by reinstating the claim 
from the date that it was terminated and paying the outstanding benefit owed. L&G should 
also pay 8% simple interest from the date that the payments should have been made to the 
date that the claim was settled. 
If L&G considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs C a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
I want to make it clear that my decision relates to L&Gs decision to terminate the claim 
when it did. L&G may continue to review the claim periodically and any further issues 
identified in the future may form part of a separate complaint.My final decision
Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint and directing Legal and General Assurance Society Limited 
to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman