DRN-3155404
The complaint
Mr N complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited, trading as Moneybarn (Moneybarn).   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Moneybarn, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr N acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr N. The car here was about 
six years old and had already completed about 50,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable person 
would expect some wear and tear, but I dont think theyd expect the car to be suffering from 
a fault that would render it unroadworthy.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Moneybarn were responsible for its 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. Mr N reported a problem with the air bag 
light being on, to the dealership, on the day he took receipt of the car. Hes provided our 
services with copies of that message.
Whilst the independent engineer wasnt able to identify a problem with the airbag during his 
inspection on 10 December 2020 the authorised dealership was able to corroborate the fault, 
only 20 days later. I think its likely the dealerships tests were more thorough as, whilst I can 
see the independent engineer checked the loom and the connections, I can see the 
authorised dealership completed electrical tests. They concluded that there was low 
resistance and either the Electronic Control Unit and/or the device for detonating the airbag 
(SQUIB) would need replacing.
Im therefore persuaded that it was likely the car had been supplied in that condition and that 
there had been a fault with the car at the point of supply. I think that fault would mean the car 
was of unsatisfactory quality as it wouldnt pass an MOT in that condition.
Mr N also complained about the brakes on the car screeching. The independent inspector 
wasnt able to drive the car, but he did note there was a lot of brake dust on the callipers and 
it seems this is the most likely cause. I think its reasonable to suggest brakes are a wear 
and tear item and Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence to hold Moneybarn 
responsible for any deterioration in the brakes. When Mr N had the front brake pads 
changed in August 2020 I think any other issues with the brakes would have been likely to 
have been commented on at that point. 
Putting things right
The relevant legislation says that a business should be given one opportunity to repair a fault 
that is present when the car is supplied. I dont think Moneybarn have had that opportunity 
so I think they should pay to have the car repaired. Mr N has already obtained a quote of 
£1,274.20 for this work and it would therefore seem reasonable to tell Moneybarn to refund it 
once the repairs have been completed. But as the car isnt roadworthy theyll also need to 
pay to collect the car and transport it to the garage where the work can be completed.
I understand that Mr N has financed another car since this one was taken off the road. I can 
understand that repairing rather than rejecting this car will present some problems as hell 
have two cars in his possession. But the relevant legislation allows the business an 
opportunity to repair a fault and I dont think it would be fair to reject the car because Mr N 
made a decision to buy another.
Mr N hasnt been able to drive the car since 30 December 2020 when the airbag fault was 
eventually diagnosed. Its not fair for him to have been paying for a car he couldnt use so 
Moneybarn will need to refund any finance instalments hes paid since 30 December 2020. 
Theyll need to add interest to that refund as Mr N has been deprived of that money. If there 
are any payments that were due from 30 December 2020 but havent been paid by Mr N 
they should be waived.
Moneybarn have already offered Mr N £100 to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience caused but I dont think thats sufficient here. Mr N has been complaining 
about this problem for a long time and hes had to take the car off the road in the meantime. 
Hes also explained that hes had to get an alternative car. In the circumstances I think 
Moneybarn should pay him an additional £100 in respect of the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
to:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr N and transport it to the garage for repairs. Pay for 
those repairs to the cars airbag (£1,274.20).Refund any finance instalments paid by Mr N since 30 December 2020 in respect of 
the lack of use hes had from the car. Add 8% simple interest per year to that refund 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement. If there are any payments that 
were due from 30 December 2020 that havent been paid by Mr N they should be 
waived.
Pay Mr N an additional £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ns credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman