DRN-1096594
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) failed to remove her ex-
husband from their joint bank account. 
What happened
Mrs D had a joint account with her now ex-husband. She requested to Halifax that she 
wanted her contact details to be private and secure and asked it to remove his name from 
their account. As requested by Halifax Mrs D said they both attended a branch and 
completed the necessary paperwork and presented identification. She said she made sure 
the account was in credit. Following this she said she received statements every month with 
just her name on them. 
Approximately three years later, in or around January 2019, she received a letter with her 
ex-husbands name on it. She said she was told in branch that there was a computer error 
and the account had reverted to having both parties on it. After failing to receive her next 
statement she checked her account online and found the address had changed to her ex-
husbands address. 
She complained to Halifax. She said her life had been on show for her ex-husband to see for 
three years. She said she started to panic as she realised the implications of this. The bank 
called her back and disclosed that it had spoken to Mrs Ds ex-husband. Mrs D became 
upset by this. 
In its final response Halifax said Mrs Ds ex-husband had never been removed from the 
account and that it had no evidence on its systems to suggest this was ever requested. But it 
accepted Mrs Ds concerns and worries and removed him from the account. Although 
Halifax told Mrs D that it was her responsibility to monitor the account, it paid her £350 
compensation for the inconvenience. 
Mrs D brought her complaint to this service. She said they had completed the required forms 
at the time in branch and she questioned why their request hadnt been actioned. She said 
she was upset about the impact this had had on her life and this had caused her family 
trauma.
Our investigator said she didnt doubt Mrs D had been receiving paper statements and 
agreed that Halifax had made some errors. She felt that the compensation of £350 already 
paid to Mrs D was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Mrs D remained unhappy with 
this and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. She wants Halifax to acknowledge 
what its done and to be held accountable for its errors. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mrs D but having done so I wont be asking 
Halifax to do anything further. I shall explain why below but I would first like to acknowledge 
that I can see this situation has clearly been very upsetting anwd worrisome for Mrs D. This 
has been a difficult situation during a challenging time for her. 
My role is to come to what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome based on the evidence 
available to me. Where evidence is incomplete, missing or conflicting, Ill look at whats 
available and the surrounding circumstances  to decide what I think is most likely to have 
happened.
Mrs D said both she and her now ex-husband both attended the branch in order to remove 
him from the account. While Halifax has no record of this visit or the completed paperwork I 
can see that Halifax has given Mrs D the benefit of the doubt and accepted her testimony. 
And given the nature of that testimony I think its likely they did attend the branch and 
completed the paperwork but for whatever reason, likely in error, it was not processed.  
Mrs D is very concerned because she said her husband has had access to her account for 
three years. Shes said that she feels violated that her life has been viewed by her ex-
husband. Without wishing to undermine Mrs Ds clear distress I hope I can reassure her that 
even though Mr Ds name remained on the account I think it unlikely that he has seen her 
account movements. Halifax has said that the account is paperless which means no 
statements wouldve been sent to him. This also means access to the account would be 
online. And Halifax has said Mr D hasnt accessed the account. It is normal for a bank to 
have records of exactly when a customer has accessed their accounts online and what 
actions and transactions theyve taken. 
Ive looked at statements for the account going back as far as 2013. In August 2013 the 
account was in Mr and Mrs Ds name at an address I shall refer to as A. Contact notes 
provided Halifax record a change of correspondence address by Mrs D in February 2014 to 
address B. The statements up to and including August 2019 show the account in Mr and Mrs 
Ds name at address B. In September the account reverts to Mrs Ds name only at address 
C. This last change as a result of this complaint. But Mrs D has said she received paper 
statements to herself every month but she hasnt been able to provide a copy of these 
statements. 
If Mr D were to have access to the account statements, as Mrs D is concerned he had, then 
he would have received them at his address. As Halifax has said the account stayed in both 
names at address B, albeit in error, it cannot then be the case that Mrs D also received 
paper statements at her address. 
I want to reassure Mrs D that Im not disputing that she received paper copies of statements 
addressed to her but I must determine what I believe likely to be the case. I notice that Mrs D 
has five open accounts with Halifax, including two current accounts, credit card and savings 
accounts and I wonder if its possible the statements shes received every month have been 
from one of those other accounts. 
Mrs D is concerned Halifax is unable to locate the documents relating to her request to 
remove Mr D. If, as seems likely, the request was not actioned in the first instance this would 
explain why there is no record of the change on the system. While other changes, such as 
the change of address in February 2014, have been recorded. 
Mrs D has also complained about the way Halifax investigated her complaint, specifically 
that Halifax called her husband during its investigation into her complaint. Complaint 
handling is not a regulated activity and not something I would normally be able to comment on. But as I believe her concern is ancillary to her complaint about a regulated activity I am 
able to comment. 
I can see why Mrs D would be upset that Halifax called her ex-husband. Unfortunately 
because the account was still a joint account, albeit in error, it wouldnt be unreasonable of 
Halifax to have called him to confirm his status on the account. As the investigator has said it 
would have been better if Halifax had discussed this with Mrs D prior but it hasnt done 
anything wrong. 
Mrs D hasnt reported any direct financial impact of this error. But she has clearly been 
distressed by this situation and I consider the £350 compensation for her distress that 
Halifax has already paid to Mrs D fair and reasonable and what I would expect in such 
circumstances. Mrs D would like Halifax to be held accountable for its error. By accepting 
Mrs Ds testimony Halifax has accepted it likely made an error but and its not our role to 
punish a business. 
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has already paid £350 to settle this complaint and I 
consider this to be fair in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman