DRN-4314796
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Openwork Limited trading as Owl Financial mis-sold her a personal 
accident insurance policy.
Mrs Ks husband, Mr K, has brought this complaint on her behalf but Ive referred only to Mrs 
K throughout this provisional decision. 
What happened
In March 2018, Openwork sold Mrs K two units of MultiProtect insurance cover. The policy
was sold during a meeting, on an advised basis.
The insurance cost £16 per month and Mrs K says she was told the units she bought would
cover accidents, hospital stays, funeral costs and some serious illnesses such as Hepatitis B
and Hepatitis C. Mrs K says she cancelled an existing personal accident policy which had
been taken out in 2013 and cost £7.99 per month, because of the higher level of protection
offered by the MultiProtect insurance at double the cost.
Unfortunately, Mrs K was subsequently diagnosed with both Hepatitis B and Hepatitis C. The
insurer who provides the MultiProtect policy said Mrs K wouldnt be covered for these
diagnoses as she hadnt bought extra, optional units of cover from Openwork.
Mrs K complained to Openwork, who said its adviser would usually have recommended the
most comprehensive level of cover available, but that Mrs K didnt have a sufficient budget to
purchase this when the policy was bought in 2018. Openwork said it could find no evidence
to suggest the policy had been mis-sold to Mrs K.
Unhappy, Mrs K brought the matter to the attention of our service. One of our investigators
looked into what had happened and said she thought Openwork had complied with industry
rules when selling the policy to Mrs K. Mrs K didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so
the complaint was referred to me.
I made my provisional decision about Mrs Ks complaint earlier this month. In it, I said:
Im really sorry to hear about Mrs Ks illnesses, and that she is going through such a difficult
time.
Openwork is a separate and distinct business to the insurer who provides the benefits under
this policy. Openwork is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its own right and
wasnt acting as an agent of the insurer when selling this policy. So, the insurer isnt
responsible for anything Openwork  as an independent broker - did. When making my
provisional decision about this complaint, I can only comment on the regulated activities
which Openwork is responsible for  and that is the sale of this policy. If Mrs K wishes to
pursue a complaint about the clarity of the welcome pack she was sent or about the decision
to decline her claim, then this would need to be addressed in a separate complaint against
the insurer. If Mrs K wants our service to look into a complaint about the insurer, she should
let our investigator know when responding to this provisional decision.
This policy was sold on an advised basis. This means the principles set out in relevant
industry rules (the Financial Conduct Authoritys Insurance: Conduct of Business
Sourcebook) apply. Under these rules, Openwork needed to make sure this insurance
policy was suitable for Mrs K and met her demands and needs at the time  this included
taking into account the level of cover recommended, and its cost. Openwork also needed to
provide Mrs K with information about the policy that was clear, fair and not misleading so she
could make an informed choice about whether to buy it.
I have no way of knowing for certain exactly what was said during the meeting when this
policy was sold. So, I must base my decision on the available evidence to decide on the
balance of probabilities, what I think is more likely than not to have happened in the
circumstances.
Was the policy suitable for Mrs K?
Openwork says a recommendation letter was sent to Mrs K on 13 March 2018, following the
meeting in which the policy was sold.
Ive seen a copy of the recommendation letter. This lists Mrs Ks priorities as follows:
Priority 1  provide a lump sum in the event of an accident
Priority 2  provide for dependents in the event of death
Priority 3  provide for funeral expenses in the event of death
Priority 4  protect income in the event of long term sickness
Priority 5  provide a lump sum in the event of serious ill health
The recommendation letter says that two units of MultiProtect cover were recommended to
Mrs K to address Priority 1, but that Priorities 2  5 inclusive could not be met due to
insufficient budget, although a need was identified and a potential shortfall in protection
would therefore exist.
This recommendation letter was based on a fact-find completed by Openwork which set out
Mrs Ks monthly net income as £1,000, her total monthly outgoings as £400 and her net
monthly surplus as £600. Mrs K says her and Mr Ks joint annual income was, at that time, in
the region of £37,000 to over £50,000. But, even accepting that Mrs Ks total monthly surplus
was the lower amount stated in the fact-find, I dont think the recommendations Openwork
made were suitable for her demands and needs at the time.
Mrs K had a clearly identified need to protect Priorities 4 and 5. Additional healthcare cover 
providing cover for certain specified illnesses  would only have cost Mrs K an additional £1
per unit per month (£17 per month instead of £16 per month).
I understand the recommendation letter says that Mrs K was prepared to allocate a monthly
budget of £16 to the insurance. Mrs K says this wasnt the case, and that she was simply
told what the cost would be for two units of cover. But, regardless of which party set £16 as a
budget, theres no indication from the documentation that Openwork ever explored or
discussed Mrs K extending her cover to fully protect her demands and needs for what I think
would have been a very minimal additional cost.
I understand Openwork says its adviser would have had nothing to gain by failing to sell
additional benefits to Mrs K. However, I see no reason why Mrs K would have cancelled an
existing personal accident insurance costing half the price if she had known the two units
she was sold didnt offer a more comprehensive level of cover.So, I dont think Openworks recommendations that Mrs K didnt have sufficient budget to
protect her demands and needs in full were suitable, or fair and reasonable in the
circumstances.
Was Mrs K given information about the policy that was clear, fair and not misleading?
Mrs K has, I think, been consistent and plausible in her testimony that she didnt receive a
copy of the recommendation letter from Openwork.
Openwork hasnt been able to provide any evidence, such as a screenshot from its internal
systems, showing that this recommendation letter was sent. While Openwork has provided
evidence demonstrating that a fact-find was uploaded onto its internal systems, there is no
record of any suitability report or other additional documents being uploaded. So, based on
all the available evidence, Im not satisfied that its more likely than not that the
recommendation letter was sent to Mrs K.
So, I also dont think Openreach gave Mrs K enough information about the policy to allow
her to make an informed choice about whether to buy it.
It isnt in dispute that Mrs K received a welcome pack from the insurer, but the content of the
welcome pack doesnt correct what I think were failings in the sales process by Openwork.
And Im satisfied from Mrs Ks testimony that she placed more weight on the information she
was given at the time the policy was sold than on the content of any policy documentation.
What should Openwork do to put things right?
As I think Openwork mis-sold Mrs K this policy, it needs to put her back into the position
which I think she would have been if the error had never happened.
Im satisfied that, were it not for Openworks failings, Mrs K would still have bought the basic
two units of the policy. And, Mrs K would have been able to benefit from the policy if shed
needed to make a claim which was covered under these two units. So, I dont think the
policy as sold was of no use to her. This means it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask
Openreach to refund the premiums which Mrs K has paid for this cover since 2018.
However, Im also satisfied that, were it not for Openworks failings, that Mrs K would also
have bought additional units of cover. But this doesnt mean it would be fair and reasonable
to require Openwork to pay compensation to what a successful claim for Hepatitis B and/or
Hepatitis C might have amounted to. I say this because theres no guarantee that a claim for
these illnesses would have been successful under any additional units purchased, as the
healthcare cover only covers illnesses which are contracted after the policy start date.
Having said that, Im satisfied that Mrs K has experienced distress and inconvenience at a
level which I think is substantial because of how this policy was sold. And, I think Mrs K has
also experienced a loss of expectation, because of Openworks actions, when she came to
make a claim. I therefore intend to direct Openwork to pay Mrs K £1,000 compensation for
the impact of this matter on her.
As a final point, Mrs K has queried whether funeral benefit is provided under the policy she
holds. Mrs Ks policy schedule says that she does hold this cover but she may wish to
contact the insurer to confirm this.
Openwork didnt accept my provisional decision and provided evidence showing that the 
recommendation letter was sent to Mrs K by email on 13 March 2018. Mrs K asked that I reconsider my compensation award to take account of her medical 
situation and to reflect the fact that she has lost £20,000 worth of cover. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that Openwork has now evidenced that the recommendation letter was sent to Mrs 
K, but this doesnt change my findings that Openworks recommendations were not suitable 
for Mrs K and didnt meet her demands and needs at the time. 
For the reason set out in my provisional decision, I cant fairly conclude that a claim for Mrs 
Ks medical conditions is likely to have been successful under any additional units of cover. 
So, it wouldnt be reasonable to direct Openwork to pay compensation to the value of what a 
claim payment would have amounted to. Ive taken all of Mrs Ks circumstances into account 
when making the compensation award. I dont doubt the seriousness of her illnesses or the 
effect which these have had on her life. But, having taken into account our published 
guidance on the payment of compensation for distress and inconvenience, Im satisfied that 
an award of £1,000 is fair for the impact of Openworks actions on Mrs K. 
Putting things right
Openwork Limited trading as Owl Financial must put things right by paying Mrs K £1,000 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience she experienced. 
Openwork Limited trading as Owl Financial must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mrs K accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mrs Ks complaint against Openwork Limited trading as Owl Financial and I 
direct it to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman