DRN-4347282
The complaint
Mrs P complains Aviva Insurance Limited damaged her boiler after it was called out to fix a 
radiator under the terms of a home emergency policy. 
Aviva Insurance Limited, as the underwriter of the insurance contract, is responsible for this 
complaint. HomeServe administers the contract. For ease Ill refer to both their actions as 
Avivas actions. References to Aviva also includes their agents.
What happened
On 11 October 2022, Mrs P took out a heating, drainage, plumbing and electrics HomeServe 
policy at a cost of £16 a month.
Mrs P contacted Aviva as a radiator was leaking. Under the policy, Aviva sent a plumber 
(who Ill call P) on 9 March 2023. Mrs P had bought a new radiator as she thought this is 
what would be needed. P checked he could replace the radiator with the one Mrs P had 
bought and was told this would be allowed, however, he didnt have enough time to change 
it that day. He noted the radiator was smaller than the one it was replacing and so the valves 
also needed to be changed. The notes also state P left the radiator extensions on site ready 
for the job to be completed and hed booked for someone to return on the afternoon of 11 
March. 
Mrs P says no one turned up on 11 March, though her son waited at home, so she 
complained to Aviva about this.
P then returned to Mrs Ps home on 13 March. P drained down the system and fitted the new 
radiator and valves. Afterwards he couldnt get the boiler to fire and so booked an 
emergency appointment for a heating engineer the next day. During the visit on 13 March, 
Mrs P says P was full of attitude as he strolled into her house, and she questioned him about 
his failure to book the appointment for 11 March, but he blamed the company. She also says 
before he drained the system, she told him shed had problems with her boiler previously. 
Ps notes say he was told this after hed done the work.
Mrs P called Aviva and complained P shouldnt have drained down the system. A number of 
engineers then attended Mrs Ps home to try to fix the heating system. For example, an 
engineer recommended a power flush  which wasnt covered under Mrs Ps policy -  as he 
said there was a blockage in the system and a water sample was taken to confirm this. In 
the meantime, Aviva wired up the immersion heater so this could be used for hot water on 
17 March. 
Aviva told Mrs P there was sludge in the system, and this wasnt covered under her policy. 
She wasnt happy with this so, on 21 March, Aviva arranged for an engineer, V, to give a 
second opinon. V deemed the boiler beyond economic repair (BER) and stated Heat 
exchanger blocked, flow and return pipes blocked, gas valve pulsing. AT risk due to not 
being able to test. turned off. And the water test results showed sludge was in the system.
Aviva told Mrs P the boiler was BER, and it wouldnt be making any contribution towards this 
as Mrs P was in the first 6 months of her policy with them when this was excluded. Mrs P 
wasnt happy with Avivas decision the boiler was BER so she complanied.
On 31 March, Mrs P arranged for her own engineer to attend, B, to replace her heating 
system. On 17 April, B gave Mrs P the following statement.
While attending the above property to change the boiler we realised that in the airing 
cupboard there was no air release above the pump position on the primary flow pipe 
where the h section is located. This resulted in a 3 foot hi airlock which I can only 
assume burnt out an alpha pump which we found on the floor in the a/c. 
Further inspection we found a new pump which was a new ups3 pump but looked 
like it came from a combi boiler as it had a silver adapter between the pump head 
and the base of the original alpha pump. 2 install engineers and an electrician had 
never seen before. We decided to totally cut out the old h section put 2 new pump 
valves in and add an auto air valve in on the ov/cf section of the H when the boiler 
was filled up this would prevented air locks and will help in air release and not cause 
pumps to burn out and boiler overheating situations.
Mrs P told Aviva the whole issue was the inability of the system to remove the air whilst it 
was being repeatedly forced through. Therefore, had Avivas engineers tried adding an air 
release valve (ARV), she wouldnt have had any of the issues she then faced. This led to her 
having to pay for a whole new heating system. Further, her biggest concern was P lied when 
he said she hadnt told him about having issues with her boiler before carrying out work. 
Aviva didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint it had caused the problems with the boiler. However, it 
agreed its service had fallen below the level she was entitled to expect and offered £400 
compensation for the distress caused as a result. It also agreed to reimburse the cost of the 
radiator, subject to a receipt for this.
Mrs P brought her complaint to this service as she didnt agree with Avivas response. She 
said B found minimal sludge and only took 15 minutes to fit the ARV. She says the 
compensation offered doesnt cover the time off she had to take for the appointments nor the 
cost of replacing the boiler and electricity used in the meantime for the immersion and plug 
in heaters. Mrs P says shes vulnerable due to health issues which are exacerbated by the 
cold, and she spent a long period without heating as a result of Ps actions. 
An Investigator considered matters and issued two views. Initially the consumer was 
unhappy with the recommendations made and then the business. So, the complaint has now 
been passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 14 August 2023 where I said the 
following.
I recognise Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key 
issues here. Our rules allow me to do this, and it reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. Ive given careful consideration to all the submissions made before arriving at 
my decision and Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be 
able to reach what I consider to be a fair outcome. Having done so, I must tell Mrs P Im currently intending to come to a different outcome to 
the Investigators most recent view. This is because Im satisfied the offer Aviva made in its 
final response letter was a fair outcome here. So, Im not currently intending to uphold Mrs 
Ps complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I think its important to explain my role isnt to act as a technical expert on heating 
systems in a case such as this. Instead, Im required to look at all the available evidence to 
decide if Avivas actions were, more likely, the cause of the damaged boiler and, if so, what it 
must do to put things right.
Mrs P's policy entitles her to call Aviva if she has a problem with several matters in the 
home, including a leaking radiator. This is what she did in March 2023 and Aviva complied 
with the terms of the policy by sending someone  P - out to repair it. 
Mrs P ultimately wanted a new radiator fitted and this is what P did. Setting aside for a 
moment the issues Mrs P says she faced with Ps attitude and service which Ive covered 
below, the key issue here stems from the fact that, after the system was drained down and 
filled back up, the boiler wouldnt work. Mrs P says this was a result of Ps actions. Aviva 
says, having sought technical advice, it doesnt agree Ps actions were incorrect nor 
wouldve led to the damage to Mrs Ps heating system which caused it to stop working.
Ive seen Avivas technical advice which confirms if new valves are fitted when changing a 
radiator  as happened with Mrs Ps new radiator due to the size difference - the whole 
system needs to be drained down. Therefore, I dont consider P acted unreasonably in 
draining the system down. Im satisfied of this irrespective of whether P was told by Mrs P 
before he drained the system, shed had prior problems with her boiler. I say this because 
her boiler had been fixed by Aviva and Mrs P says it was working perfectly prior to Ps visit 
and had been for some time. 
Ive seen evidence to show the airlock was caused because the system was unable to 
remove air in it due to not having an ARV. And the evidence from B says he assumes it was 
the airlock which caused an alpha pump to burn out. Therefore, an ARV was added to 
prevent air locks and help in air release and not cause pumps to burn out and boiler 
overheating situations. This suggests the work which will prevent the issue occuring again is 
the addition of an ARV, which had been missing before Ps visit to address the leak in the 
radiator. So, it seems to me the airlock likely wouldnt have happened if the system had an 
ARV. And I dont consider Aviva is responsible for the system not having an ARV. Nor have I 
seen any evidence to show P  attending to repair a radiator leak  shouldve checked to 
see if there was an ARV before draining the system down or realised this was missing when 
trying to fire it back up again. So, I dont agree I could reasonably say Aviva is responsible 
for the lack of an ARV in Mrs Ps system nor the airlock which formed after the system was 
filled back up.
Having said this, even if I thought Aviva was responsible for the creation of the airlock 
(which, to be clear, I dont), Mrs P would still need to show it was the airlock which caused 
the boiler to breakdown and be deemed BER. And I dont consider this has been 
demonstrated. I say this because Vs report suggests there are a number of issues with the 
system including Heat exchanger blocked, flow and return pipes blocked, gas valve pulsing 
as well as sludge in the system. And the reason the boiler was BER is because of the cost of 
the parts required to fix the issues identified by V. And I note evidence from Avivas technical 
advisors says an air lock in the system wouldnt have caused the heat exchanger to become 
blocked, damaged the parts V identified needed replacing nor caused that much damage to 
the boiler. So, even if the airlock had been resolved by P or another engineer from Aviva, Im 
persuaded the blockages and problems with other parts wouldve likely still been there and 
led to V deeming the boiler BER. I appreciate Mrs P blames Aviva for the damage to her boiler but, based on everything Ive 
seen, I am not persuaded this is something I can fairly and reasonably say Aviva is 
responsible for. It therefore follows Aviva isnt responsible for the impact the failed boiler had 
on Mrs P. Notwthstanding this, I note it arranged for her immersion heater to be wired up for 
hot water and also offered to see if it could give her additional electric heaters. In light of the 
findings above, this is likely more than I wouldve asked it to do.  
the service given to Mrs P
The key facts here arent in dispute. Aviva accepts the service fell below the standard Mrs P 
was entitled to expect. The key issue I must decide is whether the things it has agreed to do 
to put things right is fair and reasonable. 
To do this, I need to distinguish between the distress and inconvenience Mrs P suffered 
because her radiator leaked and there was a subsequent failure of her boiler, which Im 
satisfied Aviva isnt responsible for, with what Aviva did or failed to do that mightve added to 
that distress. For example, the inconvenience of waiting for an engineer to attend on 9 
March is a consequence of her radiator leaking rather than Avivas poor service. 
Aviva has offered Mrs P £400 for the service failings shes raised. This included the missed 
appointment on 11 March, the way Mrs P said she was treated by P and the poor 
communications where Mrs P had to call for updates and chase progress. 
Having listened to calls Mrs P had with Aviva and also read her detailed submissions about 
this matter, I think it likely Mrs P was already exasperated with Aviva as a result of a 
previous matter which had occurred in December 2022 when shed raised a complaint that 
she says had been resoved only a few weeks prior (which isnt the matter Im currently 
deciding). And I think it likely this affected her interactions with Aviva as, almost from the 
outset, she was frustrated. 
I recognise Mrs P is unhappy with the service in particular of P and says he lied about when 
he was told shed had previous issues with her boiler  whether this was before or after he 
drained down the system. Ive explained above why this doesnt affect my decision about 
whether Aviva is responsible for the damage to the boiler. Now Im considering this in 
relation to the service provided. In Mrs Ps email to Aviva of 13 March, she detailed the 
conversation from that day as follows:
I open the door to let him in. No hello or acknowledgement so I say come in and off 
he goes.
As I'm shutting the door I realise he's not there and is already making his way 
upstairs.
I'm not impressed but I follow him up and show him where the new rad and the valve 
are. He says I know I came out Thursday. "oh so it's your fault no one turned up 
Saturday?"
I get. . ."Is that what they told you?"
I said, "yes they said you hadn't finalised the appointment."
To which he sneers, "oh so it's all my fault and they've blamed me.?"
I asked., "well what is the reason then?"
He replied, "they probably had too many jobs booked!!!!!"
So now I'm annoyed by his attitude and I told him, I am sick of this company and the 
poor attitudes of now several engineers. I pay you to do a job and its always a he 
said, she said load of bull.
How is this OK?Anyways I'm now really annoyed and said just do what you need I'm going 
downstairs.
Thankfully my husband got home 10 mins later and after that I let him deal with it.
Having carefully thought about this, I dont consider this shows Mrs P clearly explained to P 
shed previously had problems with her heating before the boiler was drained down. 
Notwithstading this, Aviva accepted what Mrs P had said about her interaction with P and 
this formed part of the overall offer of compensation. 
So, taking everything into account, I consider the compensation Aviva offered of £400 to be 
a fair and reasonable way to compensate Mrs P for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the times when Avivas service fell below the standard she was entitled to expect. I also 
note it has agreed to pay for the radiator subject to Mrs P sending it a receipt which I 
consider to be fair and reasonable. 
Overall, while I accept Mrs P is disappointed with Aviva, Im not currently persuaded its 
done anything wrong to the extent I can fairly and reasonably hold it responsible for the 
failure of her boiler or require it to pay her further compensation.
Aviva responded to accept the provisional decision and confirmed it had nothing further to 
add.
Mrs P responded to the provisional decision. She didnt agree with it and made a number of 
comments on it including the below.
I havent been impartial in reviewing this matter and Ive disregarded the evidence 
provided by Mrs P. Also, I ignored her physical and mental health in the decision. 
The former issue she had with Aviva has been used against her and shouldnt have 
been brought up as its nothing to do with this complaint. Given what shed faced, she 
may have appeared frustrated.
She didnt write fully every conversation she had with P and feels her words have 
been used against her which further supports her view of a one-sided opinion.
Aviva didnt offer to wire the immersion up  it was suggested by someone who 
attended and then Mrs P had to fight for this. Whilst Aviva offered heaters, she 
questions who could afford to run them in a financial energy crisis. 
The radiator valves didnt need replacing. If shed been given the correct information 
about the risks of this, she wouldnt have chosen to have this done.
She paid for a service which she didnt receive, and Aviva refused to give her a 
quotation when asked. 
Internet searches done show the agents appointed by Aviva blame everything on 
sludge and this seems convenient since they dont cover flushing. And online 
research about our service is alarming.
The matter has been returned to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs P feels very strongly about her complaint. Id like to reassure her Ive 
carefully considered everything shes said and provided to this service before the provisional 
decision was issued and her comments in response to it. And, while I recognise she will be 
disappointed with this outcome, my decision not to uphold this complaint hasnt changed. I say this because Im not satisfied its more likely Aviva has done anything wrong to the 
extent I can fairly and reasonably hold it responsible for the failure of her boiler or require it 
to pay her further compensation. This is for the reasons stated below and in my provisional 
decision. However, as stated previously, I consider the compensation Aviva offered of £400 
to be a fair and reasonable way to compensate Mrs P for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the times when Avivas service fell below the standard she was entitled to expect. 
I also note it has agreed to pay for the radiator subject to Mrs P sending it a receipt which I 
consider to be fair and reasonable.
In response to some of the specific points raised by Mrs P, I respond as follows:
Mrs P was unhappy with the service provided by Aviva. I therefore considered the 
call recordings I was provided. Its my view the call handlers were, at times, spoken 
to poorly with offensive language used by Mrs P at numerous points. As this started 
in the first call, I consider it reasonable to have referred to the prior complaint when 
discussing the service Mrs P was provided as I thought this was likely a contributory 
factor to the tone of these conversations. I also thought carefully about the 
conversation she had with P. In the email sent to Aviva, this conversation was 
sufficiently detailed and contemporaneous for me to find it to be persuasive evidence 
of what was likely said at the time. Even so, as I explained in the provisional decision, 
Aviva accepted what Mrs P had said about her interaction with P and this formed part 
of the overall offer of compensation.
Whilst Avivas agents may not have been consistent in its offer to wire up the 
immersion, it is something Aviva ultimately did and covered the costs of. In relation to 
the heaters offered by Aviva, I appreciate there would have been a running cost if 
Mrs P had accepted them. But this would have likely been offset  at least in part - by 
the fact the central heating wasnt in use. Even so, for the reasons explained above, 
this is still more than I wouldve asked it to do considering my findings.
I accept it likely new valves needed to be fitted due to the size difference between the 
old and new radiator. 
I recognize Mrs P says her medical conditions were made worse by the cold she had 
to endure, and this situation significantly impacted her mental wellbeing. But, 
because I dont find Aviva was responsible for the failure of the boiler, this isnt 
something it can fairly be held responsible for. 
I recognize Mrs P feels some significant matters were ignored by me  such as in 
relation to Bs report and her health  but these matters were referred to in the 
provisional decision. Further, in my provisional decision on this case, I said the 
following:
I recognise Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every 
single point made by the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. 
Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this, and it reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. Ive given careful consideration to all the submissions 
made before arriving at my decision and Im satisfied I dont need to comment 
on every individual argument to be able to reach what I consider to be a fair 
outcome.
So, its disappointing to read that Mrs P has taken, what I read to be, offence at my provisional decision. Im unable to do anything more than, again, offer reassurance to 
Mrs P that I have, in fact, considered everything in this case even where it hasnt 
been specifically referred to. 
That said, its important to explain we arent technical experts. Instead, we rely on the 
evidence provided by both parties. Where there is conflicting information or expert 
evidence, we consider which evidence is more persuasive, on balance, to reach an 
outcome which is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Thats what Ive done 
here.
Finally, Im sorry Mrs P feels Ive been biased towards Aviva. We are independent of both 
parties and were impartial. We look into complaints brought by consumers who think a 
financial business has done something wrong thats caused them to lose out. And we look at 
all of the evidence both parties send us to decide if we think a business has treated 
someone fairly. Its the nature of looking at complaints that one party will be unhappy with 
our findings.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman