DRN-3304376
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with how AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) dealt with a claim they
made on their home insurance policy. They say AXA has only offered to proportionately
settle the buildings part of this claim.
AXA are the underwriters of this insurance policy. In my decision, any reference to AXA also
includes the actions of their associated agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr and Mrs G and AXA. I wont
repeat in detail what is already known to both parties.
In December 2019 Mr and Mrs G purchased this policy. In February 2021 Mr and Mrs G
suffered storm damage to their property and outbuilding. On 21 February they contacted
AXA to register a claim on their policy.
Mr and Mrs G said theyd been in touch with a previous insurer to find out if they were still
covered. They also have since said that a previous landslip or subsidence problem (which
wasnt claimed for with AXA) hadnt been declared when taking out this policy.
AXA were made aware of this and then put the claim on hold temporarily. AXA say an
exclusion was applied for subsidence, backdated to policy inception.
AXA arranged for a loss adjuster to visit Mr and Mrs Gs property to assess the damage and
claim. On 15 March an offer was made to settle the claim, but as AXA found Mr and Mrs G
were underinsured, they then offered to proportionately settle the claim. Mr and Mrs G
rejected the settlement as they felt it didnt cover their loss.
Mr and Mrs G expressed unhappiness at how the claim was being handled and the time it
was taking to be resolved. Following some further communication between both parties -
including quotes obtained for repairs to the flue for their cooker, the loss adjuster made an
increased offer.
Mr and Mrs G say that the length of time taken to resolve the claim meant they had to go
ahead and arrange repairs, discard some contents that had been exposed to further adverse
weather and were unable to use their cooker which they relied on for fear of fumes entering
their house. They also say they werent sent a contents claim form after having requested it
multiple times and have referred to their circumstances meaning this experience was extra
difficult for them.
AXA partially upheld their complaint and offered Mr and Mrs G £250 for any trouble and
upset caused. Mr and Mrs G remained unhappy and asked our Service for an independent
review. Our investigator considered the evidence but didnt recommend that the complaint
be upheld. As Mr and Mrs G did accept the investigators recommendations the complaint
was passed to me for a decision.
In my provisional decision I outlined my intended findings and both parties were given 
another opportunity to respond with any further comments or evidence by 24 March 2022. 
Both parties confirmed receiving the decision. AXA requested an extension to respond. 
I granted a very short extension - until 30 March 2022, but AXA didnt respond by that 
deadline. Ive now reconsidered the complaint for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has responded with any material new evidence, I see no fair or reasonable 
reason to deviate from my intended findings as outlined in my provisional decision. When 
considering AXAs request for an extension to respond (which I partially granted) I kept in 
mind that AXA are the experts in this relationship with Mr and Mrs G and should be aware of 
the approach they shouldve followed under CIDRA.
My provisional findings form part of this, my final decision - so for ease Ive included a copy 
below.
Copy of provisional findings:
Im sorry to hear of the storm damage Mr and Mrs G have suffered. Although a number of
issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I consider to be
materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the
submissions made before arriving at my decision. I wont comment on every point raised as
part of this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy, but it simply reflects the informal
nature of our service.
Given that AXA accept this damage being claimed for caused by a storm, I need to only
decide if the claim has been settled fairly and reasonably as well as how AXA have treated
Mr and Mrs G overall.
AXA have referred to the actions they took regarding previously undisclosed land slip or
subsidence. Based on what Ive seen, an exclusion was applied to this policy and backdated
to the beginning. I havent seen any evidence that the exclusion has had a material impact
on the approach AXA have taken to settling Mr and Mrs Gs claim. Therefore I wont
comment further on it in this decision.
The under insurance and how AXA settled the claim
The starting point in this complaint is the non-disclosure of information when taking out this
policy. AXA have chosen to apply the average clause  that is, where underinsurance
occurred theyve chosen to settle the claim proportionately against the underinsurance
value.
Generally in insurance claims, in this type of situation, insurers will follow The Consumer
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). AXA should be familiar with
the approach our service follows in these types of complaints.
As AXA chose to not follow CIDRA as expected, for completeness and to ensure Mr
and Mrs G havent been disadvantaged by the approach taken, Ive had to consider what the
end result wouldve been had AXA followed the remedies as set out under CIDRA. Under
CIDRA Im specifically considering the under insurance and not the non-disclosure of thesubsidence - as Im satisfied that doesnt impact this claim.
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when
taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a
reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
AXA thinks Mr and Mrs G failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation
when they answered a question about the cost of rebuilding their property (including their
outbuildings).
Ive looked at screenshots of the question asked at the time of application. The question
asked was: Your policy includes £7,500 cover for rebuilding or repairing all detached
outbuildings. Is this sufficient?. There were two options to select from Yes or No and
below this a brief explanation given of what outbuildings included. It seems Mr and Mrs G
selected the Yes option for covering being sufficient.
Im satisfied that AXA asked a reasonably clear question and think that Mr and Mrs G didnt
take reasonable care to answer it accurately.
Mr and Mrs G will also note that I havent referred specifically to the policy wording for
outbuilding. Thats because our Service cant tell insurers how to set their policy terms or
define certain terms. But Im satisfied that the application and policy terms made the
definition clear.
AXA have provided evidence in the form of their loss adjusters report that the actual cost to
rebuild the outbuilding wouldve been much greater  almost £40,000.
AXA have also told us that had a more accurate rebuild estimation at the point of sale
wouldve resulted in a higher premium being charged  but not actually disclosed what the
higher premium wouldve been.
This means Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Gs misrepresentation was a qualifying one. Im also
satisfied that this was a careless misrepresentation by Mr and Mrs G rather than deliberate
or reckless. I say this because I believe that it was a simple mistake by them.
As Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Gs misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked
at the actions AXA can take in accordance with CIDRA.
Under CIDRA, where there was a qualifying misrepresentation and AXA wouldve still
offered cover but with a higher premium, AXA should settle the claim proportionately taking
into account what premium wouldve been charged had the correct insured value of the
property been declared. Instead, AXA have chosen to rely on the averages approach.
The averages approach is where AXA have offered a settlement only considering what cover
Mr and Mrs G actually had paid for.
Before coming to this provisional decision I made two information requests to AXA to
determine what the outcome wouldve been for Mr and Mrs G had the approach set outunder CIDRA been followed. Neither information request was responded to satisfactorily.
This is most disappointing as it has delayed the timely resolution of this complaint which has
already been ongoing for some time.
Therefore - for completeness, my current intended direction for this part of the complaint is
that AXA should calculate how the claim wouldve been settled had the remedies set out
under CIDRA been followed - rather than the averages approach:
should this result in a more favourable outcome for Mr and Mrs G, then AXA should
settle the claim in this way (following CIDRA) and add 8% simple interest to the
difference between the averages approach claim settlement figure and the higher
figure reached by following CIDRA
if following CIDRA doesnt result in a higher claim settlement - in the interest of
fairness, AXA should allow the claim to settle based on the averages approach
theyve already taken. This is to ensure Mr and Mrs G arent negatively affected by
having raised a complaint.
How AXA handled the claim
Its not in dispute that there were delays during the course of this claim. For reference, the
claim was made in late February 2021 but the evidence Ive seen suggests it was still
ongoing many months later. AXA accepted in their final response letter that the service
delivered fell below what they expected and offered Mr and Mrs G £250 compensation.
Whilst its positive that AXA recognises the impact of how they handled things, I dont believe
this goes far enough to recognise the impact on Mr and Mrs G and that some of these
delays were avoidable.
When considering this complaint Ive kept in mind the ages of Mr and Mrs G. AXA were
aware of this and I can see they recorded a vulnerability marker on their case file on
10 March. However, Ive not seen that any actions taken afterwards recognised that Mr and
Mrs G were vulnerable. For example, Ive noted that Mr and Mrs G let AXA know very early
into the claim about the flue issue meaning fumes were entering when it was used. This was
also identified by a surveyor on 1 March. But this issue dragged on for weeks afterwards and
given that Mr and Mrs G relied on the cooker for heating and cooking, I find the impact of this
delay great on them.
Mr and Mrs G have referred to the surveyors schedule of works stating that a specialist
would attend site to review the flue. But they had to chase AXA on this issue a number of
times and ultimately arranged a specialist themselves.
A phone note between Mr and Mrs G and AXA from 30 April refers to a discussion about
them not being without cooking facilities as they have a small convection oven and a
microwave. The note also refers to using a portable heater. Given how long theyd been
without the safe use of their cooker at this point, I dont find this satisfactory.
To further compound this issue, AXA then included the costs of repairs to the flue in the offer
for the main house. In all, the flue wasnt repaired for approximately a few months after the
claim was made. This, in my opinion is an unacceptable delay caused by the how the claim
was dealt with.
As another example, there appears to have been a misunderstanding between AXA and Mr
and Mrs G about who was actually going to repair the flue.
Ive also noted that there were delays in AXA processing the contents claim form andrepeated requests from Mr and Mrs G to be sent this document. In that time (and because of
the delays in settling the outbuildings claim) further damage occurred to some contents
which had to be disposed of. Ive not seen AXA sufficiently acknowledge this as part of their
investigation. Again, bringing back into focus the policy holders vulnerabilities, I find that
AXA ought reasonably to have dealt with this issue much sooner.
Summary
Claim settlement
I currently intend to direct AXA to calculate if settling the claim by following CIDRA wouldve
resulted in a more favourable outcome than by following the averages approach. If it
wouldve, AXA should now settle the claim by following CIDRA and pay Mr and Mrs G 8%
simple interest on the difference from the date the claim settlement was previously paid and
the date the increased settlement is paid.
As outlined, if AXA conclude that following the averages approach was more favourable for
Mr and Mrs G they dont need to do anything further.
For transparency, a copy of the updated calculation (regardless of the outcome) should be
communicated to Mr and Mrs G.
How the claim was handled
Given the length of time this complaint had been going on and the known vulnerabilities of
Mr and Mrs G - as well as poor communication on occasions, I dont find the compensation
offered fair, reasonable or proportionate. I currently intend to increase the compensation for
trouble, upset, frustration and annoyance caused by how AXA handled this claim by an
additional £250. This will mean an overall total of £500 (if AXA have already paid Mr and
Mrs G £250).
Putting things right
AXA should now calculate if settling the claim by following CIDRA wouldve resulted in a 
more favourable outcome than by following the averages approach.
 
If it wouldve, AXA should settle the claim by following CIDRA and pay Mr and Mrs G 
8% simple interest on the difference from the date the claim settlement was 
previously paid and the date the increased settlement is paid.
But, if AXA conclude that following the averages approach was more favourable for 
Mr and Mrs G - they dont need to do anything further.
For transparency, a copy of the updated calculation (regardless of the outcome) 
should be communicated to Mr and Mrs G.
AXA should now pay Mr and Mrs G a total of £500 compensation*. This consists of  
£250 in addition to the previous offer of £250 for how they handled this claim. This is 
£500 in total. 
*AXA previously offered £250, but Mr and Mrs G have suggested that this hasnt yet been 
paid to them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman