DRN-3034280
The complaint
Mr H complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc restricted access to his account. Hed like 
the account unrestricted and compensation for the impact on him. 
What happened
Mr H has an account with the Co-op. Hes represented by Ms W. 
Mr H is unhappy that the Co-op restricted access to his account. The bank had concerns 
about the spending which was taking place on Mr H's account. Mr Hs account was initially 
restricted on 6 June 2019, on 15 July 2019 the police were contacted when Mr H and Ms W 
attempted to withdraw £40,000. Mr Hs account remains restricted, and the Co-op have been 
liaising with both the police and social services, along with other third parties, to determine if 
Mr Hs account can be unblocked. 
Both the Co-op and Mr H have accepted that further checks are required before his account 
is unrestricted - however payments can be made to existing payees and those where 
payments are evidenced with additional paperwork.
On reviewing their handling of Mr Hs account the Co-op thought theyd caused some 
unnecessary delays up to February 2020. The bank felt they could have progressed things 
more quickly, and paid Mr H £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint, and thought that the Co-op acted 
fairly in restricting Mr Hs access to his account. But felt that the Co-op could have done 
more in keeping Mr H updated and contacting the police and social services. 
Our investigator recommended that the Co-op pay Mr H an additional £500 in compensation. 
Mr H accepted the £500 direction made by our investigator, however the Co-op didnt agree 
with our investigator's recommendation.
In summary they said:
The bank didnt agree that there were significant delays in them contacting social 
services and the police
As soon as they had concerns the bank contacted both social services and the police 
Theyd struggled to get updates from the police
They couldnt update Mr H because he didnt have contact details
On reviewing their conclusions, our investigator thought that as the Co-op had already paid 
£200 in compensation, a total of £300 in addition was fair. And for the Co-op to ensure Mr H 
and Ms W were kept informed of the status of Mr Hs account. 
As the Co-op didnt agree with our investigators view its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigators written an extensive view including a detailed timeline of events which has 
been shared with both parties. So it isnt necessary for me to repeat this. 
Mr H and his representative have accepted that the Co-op are entitled to review Mr Hs 
account. So, I wont be considering whether the Co-op have acted fairly in restricting Mr Hs 
access to his account  instead Ill solely be looking at whether the Co-op could have done 
more here to keep Mr H informed, and to assist in unrestricting Mr Hs account sooner. Ill 
consider if the bank could have reviewed the account more quickly, this includes asking for 
appropriate information from the customer and any third parties to alleviate their concerns.
Im aware that the Co-op feel theyve done what is expected of them considering Mr Hs 
vulnerability. As I've explained I'm not questioning the Co-op's decision to place restrictions 
on Mr H's account  I completely understand in the circumstances why this action was 
taken. But, I'm afraid I can't agree that the Co-op did everything I'd expect it to when 
attempting to determine if Mr H  a vulnerable customer - should have access to his 
account. 
The Co-op have already compensated Mr H £200 for delays which took place prior to 
February 2020. So, Ive instead considered the banks actions from this point on, and 
whether I think there were any avoidable delays. The Co-op have explained that they 
struggled to obtain updates from the police  but looking at the timeline Ive been provided 
with by the bank, I cant see that this was the case. Instead I see long gaps in attempts 
made by the Co-op to receive updates. For example in February 2020 the Co-op explained 
they were waiting for updates from the police before being able to unrestrict Mr Hs account. 
But, the bank didnt make any attempts to contact the police until 12 August 2020  and after 
this contact there was a further three month gap. Considering the importance of the 
information the police had, and the vulnerability of Mr H, Id have expected the Co-op to 
make more significant attempts to liaise with the police. 
Ive also considered the level of contact that the Co-op had with Social Services. But, based 
on the information provided by the bank it appears that Social Services contacted the Co-op 
for the first time in December 2020, and theres no indication that the Co-op had attempted 
to contact them before this point. 
Ive also considered the level of updates Mr H and Ms W were provided with. I understand 
that the Co-op had concerns in updating Ms W  however I would have expected updates to 
Ms W considering the lack of contact details the Co-op had for Mr H, and the fact that Ms W 
had authority for Mr Hs affairs. Even if the Co-op didnt want to provide Ms W with updates, I 
think the bank could have written letters to Mr H on a more frequent basis to provide him 
with information on the status of his account - and what needed to be provided to enable 
access to be given.
For the reasons Ive outlined above I think that the Co-op acted fairly in restricting his 
account, but should have done more to liaise with relevant third parties and update Mr H.  
Putting things right
I think because of the Co-op's actions Mr H was caused some additional distress, and I'm 
satisfied that he should be compensated an additional £300.My final decision
My final decision is I direct the Co-operative Bank Plc to:
Pay Mr H £300 in compensation
Provide regular updates to Ms W and Mr H on the status of Mr Hs account 
restriction. And anything Mr H needs to provide to help his account to be unrestricted.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman