DRN-3629477
The complaint
Ms K is unhappy with the actions of Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) after she reported being a 
victim of fraud. 
What happened
The facts of this case are well known to both parties, so I dont intend to repeat them in detail 
again here. However, in summary, Ms K is unhappy with the actions taken by Lloyds after 
she says she was the victim of fraud. 
Ms K contacted Lloyds in September 2020 to report a series of online transactions made 
between 28 August 2020 and 7 September 2020. Ms K has said that someone else made 
these payments without her consent and she requested that Lloyds refund them to her. 
Lloyds paid temporary refunds into her account.
However, when Lloyds later reviewed Ms Ks claim in more detail and after it had requested 
some further information from the online merchants the payments were made to, it decided 
to decline the claim and take the refunds back. It also decided to close Ms Ks accounts and 
it wrote to Ms K giving her 60 days notice so she could arrange for the funds in her accounts 
to be removed prior to the account closure.
Unfortunately, Ms K was abroad, and she didnt receive this letter and so her funds were 
moved to a holding account with Lloyds instead. Ms K says it has taken a long time to get 
these funds paid back to her as she has been abroad throughout this period and unable to 
verify herself in branch  which is the usual process. 
Ms K raised a complaint with Lloyds. She said she was unhappy that the disputed 
transactions had been re-debited from her account and she reiterated that they should be 
refunded to her. She also complained about her accounts being closed and not being able to 
access her funds for over a year. 
Lloyds reviewed Ms Ks complaint. It offered to pay Ms K £50 in compensation for not initially 
telling her that the credited disputed transactions could be re-debited following a full 
investigation but it didnt think it had done anything wrong in regard to the rest of her 
complaint points. Ms K remained unhappy with the situation, so she brought her complaint to 
our service.
Our investigator reviewed Ms Ks complaint but didnt uphold it. He pointed out that some of 
the transactions had been refunded directly by the merchants themselves. And he went on 
to say that the most likely scenario was that Ms K had authorised the transactions and so it 
wouldnt be fair to ask Lloyds to offer her a refund now. He also didnt think Lloyds had done 
anything wrong in closing Ms Ks accounts as the relevant notice had been given. For these 
reasons, he thought the £50 already offered by Lloyds was fair. 
Ms K didnt agree with the investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied Lloyds has acted reasonably when holding Ms K liable for the 
disputed transactions. Ill explain why in more detail below.
The regulations relevant to this complaint are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the 
PSRs). The PSRs set out when a customer should be held liable for transactions which 
happen on their account and when they shouldnt. 
The starting position is that a customer is liable for authorised transactions and a bank is 
liable if theyre unauthorised. And where theres a dispute about whether a customer has 
authorised the transactions or not, the bank would be expected to provide evidence as to 
why theyre holding their customer liable.
As a result, my role is to weigh up the information made available to me and decide whether 
I think its fair and reasonable for Lloyds to hold Ms K responsible for the disputed 
transactions. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute resolution service. It is not a court 
of law. And it is my role to decide what I think is most likely to have happened based on the 
evidence Ive seen. It is not to conclusively prove that Ms K made the transactions now in 
dispute in order to allow Lloyds to hold her liable for them. When deciding whats fair and 
reasonable, Ive considered all the possible scenarios and decided on the balance of 
probabilities, what I think is most likely to have happened. Having done so, Im satisfied that 
the most likely scenario here is that the transactions were authorised by Mr K. Ill explain 
why below.
The disputed transactions were made using Ms Ks genuine card details. Ms K has 
told us she always had her card with her and had not given it to anyone else to use. 
As a result, Im not persuaded theres a plausible explanation as to how someone 
else couldve got hold of her details in order to complete the transactions. I 
understand that Ms K initially told us that she had saved pictures of the front and 
back of her card on her mobile telephone and this was stolen. However, our 
Investigator asked Ms K to provide evidence as to when this took place. Ms K was 
able to provide a police report but this shows her mobile telephone was stolen after 
the disputed transactions began.
 
When Ms K called to dispute the transactions now in question, Lloyds started an 
investigation as to what had happened, and it requested information from the online 
merchants the disputed payments were made to. One of these merchants is a 
website used to book homestays and it was able to confirm that the booking was 
made using Ms Ks genuine postcode. The booking was also made in the name of 
someone associated with Ms K. 
I appreciate that it is possible that an unknown third-party mayve found a way to 
obtain Ms Ks personal information and used it to make this booking. But Im not 
persuaded this is what most likely happened here. Im not persuaded that a fraudster, having gone to the lengths of stealing Ms Ks card details, wouldve then registered 
the booking using Ms Ks details, in the name of someone she knows. Its unclear 
how they wouldve known the name of someone known to Ms K and secondly, they 
couldve simply have registered the booking in their own name which they wouldve 
been able to verify if asked by the booking provider. So, I think its unlikely that a 
fraudster intent on keeping their activity a secret would choose to create a fraudulent 
booking using Ms K and someone close to hers details when they couldve used their 
own. 
I also note that the disputed transactions took place over a period of around 10 days. 
Fraudsters will generally remove all available funds over the shortest possible 
timeframe to maximise their gain before the fraudulent transactions are noticed by 
their victim and the card blocked. But in this case, whoever appears to have been 
using the card, appears to have been using it at their leisure, over a number of days. 
This suggests they werent concerned about the fraud being identified and the 
account blocked.
There were no further attempts to use the card after it had been cancelled by Ms K 
and there is no persuasive explanation for how a fraudster wouldve known to stop 
using the card. This suggests to me that whoever was using the card knew the 
account had been blocked and it wouldnt have been possible for an unknown third-
party to have been privy to this information. 
Ms Ks online banking is accessed throughout the period of disputed activity.  For 
example, Lloyds technical information shows me it was accessed on, at least, 30 
August and 2 September 2020. But Ms K didnt formally report the transactions until 
9 September 2020. Ms K has said she did try and call Lloyds upon noticing the 
transactions, but the calls kept getting cut-off. She has said it is not her fault if Lloyds 
failed to act on her fraud report before the call was cut-off. However, Im persuaded 
that had Ms K noticed, as early as 30 August 2020, that large payments were leaving 
her account, she wouldve taken additional action. The transactions continued until 7 
September 2020  leaving Ms K with over a week to tell Lloyds what was happening. 
Had she not been able to have a successful conversation with Lloyds over the 
telephone, Im satisfied that she wouldve got in contact another way in order to 
protect the funds in her account. Im not persuaded that Ms K would simply have 
allowed the transactions to continue without trying all methods of contact. 
So overall, Im satisfied the most likely scenario here is that Ms K has made, or otherwise 
authorised, the transactions herself. 
account closure and access to funds
Banks are entitled to close a customers account  just as a customer is entitled to close 
their account. And they dont have to give a reason, though here, Lloyds has said this was 
because Ms K had made seven fraud claims over a five-month period. I have checked 
whether Lloyds gave Ms K sufficient notice of the closure in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. And I can see it gave Ms K 60 days notice, and it wasnt required 
to give more. So, I find that Lloyds didnt act wrongly when it closed Ms Ks account.
I am aware that Ms K has had some trouble gaining access to her funds since the account 
closure and she has told us this took over a year. Ms K has said this was because she was 
required to go into branch to verify her identity. However, I can see that Ms K was told in 
December 2020 that she could call Lloyds to arrange for her funds to be transferred to an existing payee on her account. I appreciate this did eventually take longer than expected but 
I dont think this warrants an additional compensation award now.
For the reasons above, Im satisfied Lloyds have acted reasonably in holding Ms K liable for 
the transactions and when closing her account. So, I wont be asking it to take any further 
action here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman