DRN-3381949
The complaint
In summary, Mr C has complained that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua Loans, provided him 
with a loan when he wasnt able to afford it. 
What happened
In November 2017, NewDay provided Mr C a loan for £2,700 repayable over 24 months. The 
interest rate on the loan was an APR of 37.9%. The total charge for the credit was 
£1,007.38, which meant the total amount repayable by Mr C for the £2,700 he was 
borrowing, was £3,707.38. The monthly repayments were £154.48. 
In its response to Mr Cs complaint, NewDay explained why it thought the loan was 
affordable and that it wasnt upholding his complaint. It had identified that Mr C needed to 
have maintained an Aqua card account well. Taking into account the information Mr C had 
provided on his application and from credit reference agencies, it identified he was left with 
surplus income of £896 a month. 
When NewDay provided its file, it explained that it had verified Mr Cs income using a credit 
reference agencies (CRA) TAC service and had verified his outgoings through the Office of 
National Statistics (ONS).
Mr Cs concerns were reviewed by one of our investigators. She explained that she didnt 
think the checks NewDay had carried out were reasonable and proportionate. Having looked 
at everything she had been provided with, including Mr Cs bank statements prior to the loan 
being taken out, she thought the complaint should be upheld. 
In response, NewDay said it didnt think Mr Cs complaints about his loan and credit card 
account should have been split. It said that as per its agreement with our service the 
complaints should have been looked at together as they had been dealt with under one final 
response. 
NewDay also didnt agree with the investigators assessment. It said it used an affordability 
model that was privy to the business and data provided by CRAs. The type of lending it 
provided, it said didnt require it to ask consumers for evidence of income such as bank 
statements. And it performed checks as required by CONC section 5.2A. This was based on 
a firm basing its creditworthiness assessment on sufficient information, where appropriate 
from a customer and where necessary from a CRA. 
NewDay went on to say it didnt request bank statements as part of its assessment, and it 
said it wasnt required to do so. It also said that as Mr C had paid the loan for around 13 
months before requesting a settlement figure, this demonstrated he could make the 
repayments. 
As NewDay didnt agree with the investigators assessment of the complaint, it has been 
passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I set out my findings in relation to the merits of Mr Cs complaint, Ill address the point 
made by NewDay regarding the separation of the two aspects of Mr Cs complaint. In this 
particular case Mr C has complained about two different products. And I dont think its 
unreasonable as a result, that the complaints have been split. 
If the complaints about the two different products were considered together, then Mr C would 
be put in the position of potentially having to accept an outcome for both aspects of his 
complaint, where one part might be upheld and the complaint about the other product not 
upheld. And in this case, I dont think that would be fair to Mr C. So, Im satisfied that it was 
appropriate to set up two separate complaints in this particular case.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if NewDay treated Mr C 
fairly and reasonably when it provided him with the loan.
1) Did NewDay complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
2) If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? 
3) Ultimately, did NewDay make a fair lending decision?  
4) Did NewDay act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did NewDay complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C would 
be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
In its response to the investigators assessment, NewDay referred to the CONC rules it says 
it had to follow at the time the loan was sold to Mr C. It said it didnt need to ask to see Mr 
Cs bank statements as it didnt think it was required to do so. 
But the rules that NewDay had to follow, required it to carry out checks that would enable it 
to reasonably assess, whether Mr C could afford to repay the loan he was wanting to take 
out. This is often referred to as an affordability assessment. 
 
The rules dont set out what specific checks it needed to carry out, but they did set out that 
those checks needed to be proportionate to the circumstances of the application. I think what 
this meant in practice, was that the scope and extent of NewDays checks needed to reflect 
the nature of the loan, bearing in mind things such as the amount of credit, the interest rate, 
the duration of the loan, the monthly and total amounts repayable, and any indications of 
customer vulnerability.  
The checks NewDay needed to carry as part of its affordability assessment, had to be 
borrower focussed. What I mean by this, is that the checks needed to consider whether 
paying the loan back would cause Mr C any difficulties or have any adverse consequences 
for him. They would also need to take account of factors such as the amount of money being lent, the term of the loan and the monthly repayments, total charge for the credit and the 
interest rate being charged. This isnt an exhaustive list. 
And because of the above, I think reasonable and proportionate checks needed to be more 
thorough if Mr C had a low income. This would reflect that it could be more difficult for him to 
make the loan repayments with a low income. 
NewDay would also need to be more thorough the higher the amounts Mr C had to repay, as 
it would be more difficult to make higher loan repayments on a given income. 
The length of the loan term would also be relevant, partly because where the loan duration is 
longer, the total cost of credit was likely to be higher. It would also be relevant because there 
is greater risk of a negative change in circumstances affecting Mr Cs ability to repay, where 
repayments need to be sustained over a longer period. 
With these principles in mind Ive thought about whether NewDay completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C would be able to repay his loan in a 
sustainable way.
In summary then, the circumstances of the loan application are as follows:
Mr C was applying for a loan which had an APR of 37.9% 
Mr C was recorded by NewDay as having a monthly income of approximately £2,100 
when the loan was taken out.
The total cost of the loan was very high, particularly when viewed as a percentage of 
what Mr C borrowed. 
Mr C had a credit card account with NewDay that had seen several credit limit increases 
in 2017.
Individually and taken together, there are several risk indicators here. So, I think that it was 
important for NewDay to have conducted checks which gave it a thorough understanding of 
Mr Cs financial position and to scrutinise the information it gathered carefully, asking follow-
up questions where necessary, before agreeing to lend.
NewDay has said it did carry out some verification checks to validate the information Mr C 
gave it in his application before it agreed to provide him with the loan. This seems to have 
been based on Mr Cs completed application form, credit file, ONS data and some electronic 
verification of his bank account.
But its not clear from what NewDays said or the information its provided, what those 
checks showed about Mr Cs income and expenditure. Its surprising given the information it 
has provided, that it hasnt been able to provide a copy of the credit report (although it has 
provided some information from the report) and of the income and expenditure verification 
checks that it carried out. 
Whilst I accept that general statistical data can in some circumstances be useful, I think the 
information NewDay had about Mr Cs financial circumstances should have led it in this 
particular case, to interrogate Mr Cs financial circumstances in a borrower focussed fashion 
rather than relying on statistical data. 
This is because there were several flags that should have alerted NewDay to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks. I think Mr Cs usage of his NewDay credit card should have been considered in a wider context rather than just as to whether he had no late 
payment or over limit fees. 
I say this because the data provided by NewDay shows that in the three months prior to the 
loan being approved, Mr C had been making approximately minimum payments in respect of 
the outstanding balance on his credit card account. Also, the total balances shown on the 
information provided by the CRA it used, indicated a credit balance in excess of £7,000. And 
it had offered him a further credit limit increase on his credit card of £900 in the September 
of 2017. 
So, taken together, I think the information NewDay had about Mr C, should have prompted it 
to look more closely at Mr Cs financial circumstances and carry out borrower focussed 
checks; to ensure that the further lending it was proposing to provide him with, was 
sustainably affordable for him. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
I think NewDay should have ensured that the scope and extent of its checks were adapted to 
the circumstances of Mr Cs application. This was a high cost loan being taken out by an 
individual who had a significant existing credit balance. Given this and the information 
NewDay had about Mr C regarding the management of his credit card account with NewDay 
and other borrowing, further checks would in my opinion, need to verify his income and 
expenditure, in addition to the checks it had already carried out. And this was needed to 
establish that he was able to afford the loan. 
At the investigators request, Mr C has provided copies of his bank statements. These show 
that for the three months prior to this loan being taken out Mr Cs account was overdrawn by 
several thousand pounds each month. There is evidence of payments on other credit card 
accounts with payments of a similar amount to those paid on his NewDay credit card being 
made. And the statements show discrepancies with the information recorded on Mr Cs 
application in respect of his income and outgoings. And I think that if NewDay had carried 
out reasonable and proportionate borrower focussed checks; it would have identified that Mr 
C was struggling financially
Did NewDay make a fair lending decision?  
I think the information NewDay already had about Mr C, together with the information it 
would have seen if it had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks by for example 
looking at his bank statements, should all have led it to conclude that it was unlikely Mr C 
would be able to sustainably afford to make the monthly payments for this loan. The fact that 
he repaid the loan early, doesnt persuade me that his circumstances indicated that he 
should have been provided with the loan in the first place. 
For the reasons Ive set out above, I think in the particular circumstances of Mr Cs case, 
NewDay should have concluded that it wasnt appropriate to provide him with the loan.
Putting things right
Mr C has repaid the loan. So, to put things right NewDay needs to refund to Mr C the interest 
he paid on the loan together with interest at the rate of 8% a year simple, from the dates 
interest was paid by Mr C, to the date the compensation is paid to Mr C, if he accepts my 
decision.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my final decision is to uphold Mr Cs complaint about 
NewDay Limited. If Mr C accepts my decision it needs to calculate and pay Mr C 
compensation, using the methodology Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman