DRN-3505235
The complaint
Mr H has complained that he received a poor service from Aviva Insurance Limited when he 
made a claim under his car insurance policy. 
What happened
In August 2021 Mr H collided with an animal which caused damage to his car and he made a
claim to his insurer, Aviva. In September 2021 Mr H complained that hed had to spend
excessive time in calls and emails with Aviva during the claim and there was a delay in
providing him with a courtesy car. Mr H was unhappy with the recording of the claim as a
fault claim  and he wanted Aviva to refund his excess to him.
Aviva didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. So Mr H asked us to look at things for him.
Our Investigator initially didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong. She explained that it
isnt always possible for a courtesy car to be available and to arrange repairs immediately.
She said it was reasonable to expect some inconvenience when having to deal with a claim.
In response, Mr H provided an itemised phone bill showing calls he made to Aviva. This
showed over eight hours in call time. He provided a screenshot of emails he received from
Aviva and the repairer during the claim which he said took time to deal with and he found
excessive. Mr H said hed had to return his car to the repairer for rectification repairs.
The Investigator changed her mind and recommended Mr Hs complaint should be upheld.
She thought the time in calls was beyond reasonable  and took into account the emails
received and the fact Mr H had to return his car to the repairer.
The Investigator recommended Aviva pay £250 compensation for the distress and
inconvenience caused by its handling of the claim.
Aviva didnt agree. It said we cannot take into account issues that were not part of Mr Hs
complaint in September 2021  which it replied to in November 2021. It said over three
hours of the calls listed on the itemised bill were made to the broker  so we cannot take this
into account when deciding whether Aviva acted reasonably. 
I issued a provisional decision on 5 May 2022. I agreed with Aviva that we could only look at 
the complaints Mr H raised in September 2021. I didnt find the calls made to Aviva and the 
time involved was over and above what would be reasonable for a customer when dealing 
with a claim. Some of the calls were made to the broker which I explained I couldnt take into 
account in my decision. 
Mr H didnt agree. He says both the broker and the approved repairer are the responsibility 
of Aviva. He says he raised further issues in October 2021 which is why he is asking for 
compensation. Mr H attached email exchanges he made with the repairer in September 
2021 which formed part of his complaint to Aviva. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my final decision remains along the same lines as my provisional decision. 
I agree with Aviva that the complaints around rectification repairs and the number of emails
Mr H received are not matters I can consider under this complaint. These issues did not form
part of Mr Hs complaint which he made on 20 September 2021. Aviva replied to Mr Hs
complaint in November 2021. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, I can only consider the number of calls and the 
time taken when Mr H dealt with Aviva and its approved repairer. If Mr H is unhappy with the 
service he received from the broker, he will need to raise a separate complaint against them.
The broker is a separate business to Aviva. 
The incident occurred on a Tuesday and Mr H reported it to Aviva on the Saturday. Aviva
says the first day it could contact its suppliers was the following Monday. From then, it took
15 days to book Mr Hs car in for repairs. As Mr Hs car was driveable, Aviva says priority
was given to cars that are immobile and availability of garages and courtesy cars for the
duration of repairs does vary.
I dont think Mr H was put to unreasonable delay or inconvenience in the availability of a
courtesy car when Aviva arranged for his car to be booked in for repairs.
As the Investigator explained, the use of the word fault when recording claims in the
insurance industry is used where an insurer is unable to recover the costs of a claim from a
third party. So in this case, Aviva has correctly recorded Mr Hs claim as a fault claim due to
the circumstances. And Mr H correctly owed the excess as the first part of any claim made
under his policy. This is explained by Aviva in the documents it provided to Mr H when he
bought the policy.
The remaining issue for me to decide is whether Mr H received a poor service from Aviva in
the contact he made with it. 
I can see from the itemised bill Mr H has provided that there are a couple of calls of
considerable time with Aviva: on 9 September 2021 (calls of 27 and 60 minutes respectively)
and on 20 September 2021 for 34 minutes.
However, I dont think that overall the time involved for Mr H to deal with his claim was over
and above what would be unreasonable. So it follows that I dont think the service Mr H
received from Aviva was poor and warrants an award of compensation for the distress and
inconvenience caused. Fortunately having to make a claim isnt something that happens
every day. I think its inevitable that when having to make a claim it will involve a degree of
inconvenience and time.
Overall it took less than a month for Aviva to deal with Mr Hs claim for repairs to his car  up
until 20 September 2021 when Mr H complained. So overall I dont think Aviva acted
unreasonably up to this point.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman