DRN-2632551
The complaint
Mrs W brought a complaint on behalf of herself and the estate of Mr W, about the alleged 
mis-sale of a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by Nationwide Building 
Society (Nationwide).
What happened
Mrs W and the late Mr W took out the PPI alongside a mortgage in 2002. Mrs W said the 
sale took place during a meeting, and that Nationwide advised her and Mr W to take the PPI. 
Nationwide agreed that the sale took place in a meeting, but said that it would not have 
offered advice about the PPI. Mrs W said she felt pressured into taking the PPI, and that it 
wasnt needed as she and Mr W had had adequate income and savings. 
The PPI policy provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mr and Mrs W at a 
monthly cost of £32.42, although the first 12 months cover was free of charge. The monthly 
benefit was £650, split equally between Mr and Mrs W. So if either had made a successful 
claim, the policy wouldve paid out £325 per month (or if both had needed to claim at the 
same time the full benefit wouldve been paid out). In the event of a successful claim, the 
policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs W disagreed, and asked 
that it be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs W and the estate of Mr Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide sent in copies of its computer records of the mortgage account and the policy, 
along with copies of the mortgage application form, mortgage offer, a mortgage product 
confirmation document and statements and renewal notices issued during the life of the 
mortgage. 
I can see from these records that Mr and Mrs W applied for the mortgage in September 
2002. The policy started in November 2002, and was cancelled in November 2004. Mrs W 
queried why the PPI didnt appear on the mortgage statement for 2004 (which she sent in) 
but I can see that this was issued in December 2004, so after the PPI had been cancelled.
The mortgage is shown as having been repaid in full in February 2014, although Nationwide 
said the balance outstanding had been reduced to a nominal amount shortly after the PPI 
was cancelled in 2004.
Ive thought about what Mrs W has said about feeling pressured into taking the PPI. 
Looking at the mortgage application, I can see that there is a statement in the PPI section of 
the form to say that Mr and Mrs W wanted the cover, and also a handwritten note at the end 
of the form confirming that, under which Mr and Mrs Ws signatures appear. Nationwide sent 
in a sample copy of a mortgage application where the applicants had declined the PPI, so 
Ive no reason to think acceptance of the PPI was automatically included in Mr and Mrs Ws 
application form. 
I mentioned that Nationwide had sent in a Mortgage Product Confirmation Document  this 
shows details of the mortgage product that had been chosen, along with details of the PPI. 
Theres a statement saying You have decided to proceed with Nationwides MPPI, which will 
be arranged as follows, under which it shows the amount of benefit, and Mr and Mrs W as 
the persons insured. Again this document was signed by Mr and Mrs W. 
The mortgage offer also contains a reference to the PPI, including the premium and 
confirmation of the 12-month free period. I should say at this point that Mrs W has referred to 
separate policies for her and Mr W, but the information I have shows one policy covering 
both Mr and Mrs W with a monthly cost of £32.42 (after the first 12 months).
I accept that, as the sale took place during a meeting, I cant know how the salesperson 
presented the PPI. However, theres nothing on the documentation to suggest that the PPI 
was compulsory, and I think Mr and Mrs W couldve chosen not to take it. 
On balance, I dont think I can fairly say its most likely that the PPI was presented to Mr and 
Mrs W as being compulsory or that they were pressured into taking it, which is what Id have 
to do to be able to uphold the complaint on this point  I simply dont have enough evidence 
that this is what happened. 
Nationwide said that advice wouldnt have been offered on the PPI policy. Mrs W disagreed. 
But even if I consider the policy to have been recommended by Nationwide - and therefore 
that it should have made sure the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs W, it doesnt change 
my decision, as I think it wouldve been a reasonable recommendation to make. 
As Ive said, I cant know how the salesperson explained the PPI - especially the things not 
covered. But I cant see that Mr or Mrs W wouldve been affected by any of these. Its not 
clear how the cost of the PPI was explained to Mr and Mrs W  but I dont think its likely that 
they would have agreed to take the PPI without some idea of the amount theyd need to pay 
(and the premium was confirmed on the mortgage offer). And Ive no evidence to suggest 
the premium was unaffordable for them. 
Mrs W told us that she wouldve been entitled to sick pay from her employer of six months 
full pay followed by six months half pay. She also said that Mr W wouldve had sick pay of 
90% of his salary for 12 months. Mrs W also said that theyd had savings they could have 
relied on, and an endowment policy that they couldve utilised. However, endowment policies 
are long term investments and the PPI couldve avoided the need to cash this in to meet a 
shorter-term need. 
Ive also thought about what Mrs W said about limiting their borrowing so that they wouldnt 
have had difficulty in making the mortgage payments if one of them couldnt work. However, 
looking at the figures shown on the mortgage application and offer, the borrowing doesnt 
seem particularly low relative to their incomes, so I think the loss of  or reduction in - one 
income for any length of time could have caused difficulties for them. Ive also kept in mind that the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months in the event of a 
successful claim, allowing Mr and Mrs W to use their savings for their everyday living 
expenses. In any case, I think Mr and Mrs W could reasonably have wanted to protect an 
important commitment that was secured on their home. So on balance, I think the PPI 
wouldve been a reasonable recommendation to make. 
This is a finely balanced decision, but overall, although I cant know whether Nationwide 
clearly explained all of the policy details, I think Mr and Mrs W would still have bought the 
policy if it had. It couldve provided useful protection if they couldnt work. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mrs W, as I can see she feels strongly about this, but my conclusion is that on the 
evidence I have, I cant fairly say the PPI was mis-sold.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs W paid on this policy  and whether 
Nationwide treated them unfairly. 
Nationwide has told us that the commission for this policy was less than half of what was 
paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Nationwide has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ws commission was less than 
half the cost of the policy. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont think Nationwide treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need 
to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs W paid for the PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and the 
estate of Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman