DRN-1345334
The complaint
Mr M complains that Scottish Widows Administration Services Limited mis-sold him an 
endowment policy for repaying his mortgage in 1994. He also complains the policy wasnt 
properly assigned to his lender, Barclays Bank, when it ought to have been. 
Mr M is being represented in his complaint by his brother-in-law, Mr H. 
What happened
In 1994 Mr M wanted a mortgage to facilitate the purchase of a flat. Black Horse Agencies 
arranged an interest only mortgage with Barclays.  The mortgage was to be supported by an 
endowment policy provided by Scottish Widows. 
The policy was set up to achieve £28,938 at the end of the term, with maturity of the policy 
set for June 2019. The monthly premium was £47.29.  Mr M only made one payment to the 
endowment policy, after which it lapsed without value. 
Mr H was later helping Mr M with his mortgage arrangements. And it was discovered that the 
policy had lapsed. This meant Mr M had no means of repaying his mortgage at the end of its 
term. Mr H complained, on Mr Ms behalf, about the sale of the mortgage, the endowment 
policy and an associated payment protection insurance policy. Mr H also complained that 
neither Scottish Widows nor Barclays had notified Mr M that the policy had gone into arrears; 
it hadnt been assigned as required by the mortgage conditions. 
Scottish Widows (part of the Lloyds group) considered the complaint about the sale of the 
endowment policy and the policy assignment. It accepted the advice to take out an 
endowment policy might not have been suitable for Mr M.  As only one premium had been 
paid, it agreed to refund that premium and add 8% simple interest on that sum. In total, it 
offered £121.90 in compensation. Following that it issued a further response which 
explained, that according to its records, the policy was never assigned to the lender. It also 
said because of the passage of time it no longer had any records to show whether a letter 
was sent about the non-payment of premiums/the policy lapsing. 
Mr H asked us to look into the matter. We explained to Mr H that separate complaints would 
need to be set up as different businesses were responsible for different elements of the 
complaint. However, we did confirm that the evidence and arguments would be considered 
overall. 
In relation to the complaint about the sale of the mortgage endowment policy, our 
investigator explained he didnt need to consider the circumstances of the sale itself, as the 
complaint had already been upheld, so he only needed to consider the redress offered. And 
he found it was fair in the circumstances; the policy had lapsed after only one premium 
payment. In relation to the complaint about the assignment of the policy, he was satisfied 
there was evidence Barclays had requested assignment and as is standard practice, he 
found it likely both Mr M and Barclays had been notified about the non-payment of 
premiums. Mr H has asked for the matter to be reviewed. He thinks unfair assumptions have been 
made about correspondence being sent to Mr M in regard to the non-payment of premiums 
when there is no evidence of this. He has also said that the investigators findings contradict 
some of the findings of the ombudsman in the complaint against Barclays. And overall, Mr H 
continues to reiterate his belief all of Mr Ms complaints should be investigated as one. He 
also requested a hearing so that the ombudsman could see for themselves that Mr M is 
profoundly deaf and vulnerable. 
I considered Mr Hs hearing request. I was satisfied that we had recorded information about 
Mr Ms disability and vulnerability on our files. I was also satisfied that I could determine the 
fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint without the need for a hearing. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two parts to this complaint, the sale of the endowment policy and whether it was 
assigned. For ease, I will deal with each in turn.  
the sale of the endowment policy
The sale of the policy took place in 1994. As the policy lapsed a short time later, there is only 
very limited information available about it now. This is neither surprising nor unusual given 
the passage of time and businesses data protection obligations  they arent allowed to keep 
data for longer than necessary; and Mr M ceased to be a customer of Scottish Widows in 
1994 when the policy lapsed.
Because it no longer had the advice file, Scottish Widows upheld the complaint as it couldnt 
be sure the recommendation was suitable. I know Mr H has made submissions about Mr Ms 
disability and vulnerability. But as Scottish Widows has already agreed the policy has been 
mis-sold, this isnt something I need to investigate further. The only matter left for me to 
decide in relation to the sale of the policy is whether the offer of compensation is fair and 
reasonable.  
Ordinarily, where an endowment policy was mis-sold, compensation is usually designed to 
put the customer in the position they would have been in had they had a repayment 
mortgage instead. This calculation is commonly referred to as an RU89 calculation. This 
calculation looks at the capital loss  that is, the position the repayment mortgage would 
have been in, and the overall cost of the two different mortgages, along with any policy value 
to establish if there has been a financial loss. These calculations are usually done until the 
point the policy ceases to be used for mortgage repayment purposes. 
There was only one premium paid into the policy before it lapsed. So it ceased to be used for 
mortgage repayment purposes almost immediately. And repayment mortgages are nearly 
always just interest at the outset, there is very little, if any, capital reduction in the first few 
months. Any RU89 calculation would only be conducted to the first month. And Im not 
persuaded there would have been any capital loss during that time, there would have been 
no, or an extremely small, capital reduction after month one had the mortgage been on a 
repayment basis. Im therefore satisfied refunding the premium and adding 8% simple 
interest to that is a fair resolution to this part of the complaint. 
the assignment of the policyAs mentioned above, there is very limited information now available about the policy. Where 
the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I make my decision on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened given the 
information that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances. This is the same 
standard which applies to civil cases in court. 
Mr Ms mortgage offer was dated 3 June 1994.  Mr M signed the offer five days later on 8 
June 1994. The endowment policy started on 29 June 1994. And it was a requirement of the 
mortgage offer for the policy to be assigned to the lender. 
I can see from the information available to me that Barclays intended for the policy to be 
assigned. There is a completed assignment form dated 25 July 1994. And it would appear 
this was sent to Scottish Widows as there is a Scottish Widows stamp on the document. 
However, the stamp isnt dated and so we dont know when Scottish Widows received this 
information. 
Such documentation would usually be sent first or second-class post. Generally first-class 
post arrives in two working days and second-class in five.  If we assume the document was 
posted either the same, or the following day (neither of which is certain), Scottish Widows 
will have received this on 27 July 1994 at the very earliest, or by 31 July.  I also need to bear 
in mind that Scottish Widows is not a small business, so any post is likely to take a couple of 
days to reach the right department. 
We dont know what happened on receipt of that information. It seems there are several 
possibilities:
The assignment was received just before the second premium was due but wasnt 
actioned.
The assignment was received just before the second premium was due and was 
actioned. 
The assignment was received after the second premium was due  and after the 
policy lapsed  and so wasnt actioned because there was no longer any policy to 
assign.
Each of these scenarios is equally possible. And because of the lack of documentation it 
now cannot be known what happened. It seems to me this can all be attributed to 
unfortunate timing, with the deed being sent and likely received so close to the time the 
second premium was due and the policy lapsing. I can only uphold a complaint if I find the 
business has done something wrong. Because of the passage of time, Im not persuaded I 
can fairly or reasonably find that Scottish Widows is at fault if Barclays wasnt told of the 
policy lapsing. 
When policies providing life cover, such as an endowment policy, fall into arrears policy 
holders are notified of this, usually in writing, with a request to bring premiums up to date. 
This was standard practice not only so policyholders wouldnt lose valuable life cover if a 
policy lapsed, but because if many premiums were missed an endowment policy could lose 
its tax-free status. 
Mr H is unhappy that assumptions have been made that arrears notifications would have 
been sent without proof of this. I have already explained there is limited information available 
because of the passage of time so there are no copies of what was sent. So I accept we 
dont have proof. But Im not required to prove what happened, but to make a finding on 
balance. Given it was (and is) standard practice for policy providers to contact policy holders 
that are in arrears, Im satisfied this is more likely to have happened. I appreciate Mr H says he was told this might not have happened because of the newness of the policy, but when 
responding to our file request Scottish Widows said it would. In my experience arrears 
notifications would have been sent.   
Overall, Im persuaded it is more likely that Mr M was told of the arrears on his policy. Mr H 
has told us that Mr M has a single digit reading age, so I accept Mr M may not have fully 
understood the information he was sent. But there is no evidence that Scottish Widows 
knew, or ought to have known, of this at the time, such that I would find it should have 
altered the way it communicated with Mr M. But if Mr M hadnt understood what he was sent, 
as Mr H has said, he could have checked with Scottish Widows, or other parties, to see if he 
needed to take any action on receipt of any correspondence.
Overall, Im not persuaded Scottish Widows has done anything wrong, such that I would ask 
it to compensate Mr M further. The offer it has made for the sale of the endowment policy is 
fair. And I dont find it did anything wrong in relation to the assignment of the policy. I accept 
and understand that Mr H is going to be extremely unhappy with this and wants someone to 
compensate Mr M for the position he now finds himself in. But for the reasons given I wont 
be asking Scottish Widows to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman