DRN-2485078
The complaint
Ms H complains that PCF Bank Limited irresponsibly gave her a conditional sale agreement 
she couldnt afford.  
What happened
In May 2014, Ms H acquired a used car using a conditional sale agreement from PCF Bank. 
The cash price of the car was £14,989 and Ms H paid a deposit of £2,000. The remainder 
was paid for using the conditional sale agreement. The total repayable under the agreement 
(including the deposit) was around £19,000. Ms H was required to make 48 monthly 
repayments of around £350. In October 2018, Ms H settled the finance agreement and 
ownership of the car transferred to her. 
In November 2019, Ms H complained to PCF Bank. She said that it was irresponsible in 
approving the finance agreement because she couldnt afford it. She didnt think PCF Bank 
had carried out sufficient affordability checks because if it had it would have seen she 
wouldnt be able to make the repayments. 
PCF Bank didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said based on the information it had 
gathered about Ms H, it was satisfied the agreement was affordable to her. It acknowledged 
that Ms H had shown signs of financial difficulty from early on in the agreement but it said it 
had waived around half of the charges it had applied due to the arrears that had built up and 
felt this was fair. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She didnt think PCF Bank had 
completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks and that if they had it would 
likely have discovered the agreement was unaffordable to Ms H. She recommended it refund 
all the interest and charges under the agreement adding 8% simple interest per year to the 
refund and removing all adverse information from her credit file. 
Ms H accepted those recommendations. PCF Bank said they agreed in part but werent 
satisfied that paying interest on top of the refund was reasonable. So, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive considered  amongst other things  the rules and guidance for lenders set 
out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook. I think there are two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are: 
1. Did PCF Bank complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Ms H would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Ms H could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did PCF Bank act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I think Ms H has been disadvantaged in any way by PCF Banks actions, Ill go onto 
consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.  
Did PCF Bank complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms H 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
Before granting credit, PCF Bank were required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Ms Hs ability to sustainably repay the borrowing. This is often referred to as 
an affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed. This means it needed to be 
concerned with whether Ms H could sustainably afford the borrowing (considering his 
specific circumstances), rather than how statistically likely he was to repay. The latter is the 
risk posed to PCF Bank as the lender, or its credit risk but this is not necessarily the same 
as an assessment of affordability. 
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors 
such as, but not limited to:
The amount of credit;
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments;
The duration of the agreement;
The cost of the credit; and
The consumers individual circumstances.
What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered 
proportionate as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and 
proportionate check ought to be.
Excluding the deposit Ms H paid, the total amount repayable under the conditional sale 
agreement was around £17,000 over a term of 48 months. The monthly repayments were 
around £350. As part of the credit check PCF Bank completed it would have been aware that 
these monthly repayments were around 50% larger than her monthly mortgage repayments. 
This means this particular commitment was likely to be quite significant for Ms H. On that 
basis I think a reasonable and proportionate assessment of affordability ought to have been 
relatively thorough. 
PCF Bank said it completed a credit check and verified Ms Hs income using bank 
statements. It said this showed she earned around £2,260 per month. It said that based on 
her credit check it had calculated a 5% repayment towards her existing credit commitments 
which showed that she would be paying around £1,200 per month to other creditors. After 
taking account of the conditional sale agreement repayments it would leave her with around 
£700 per month in disposable income which it said was sufficient to show the lending was 
affordable. 
While PCF Bank did verify Ms Hs income, the bank statements it saw only included income, 
it had no indication about her regular spending or other essential commitments outside of 
her creditors. PCF Bank could see that a large proportion of her income was from benefits 
and that she was a parent. The £700 it had calculated she had left needed to be enough to 
cover other essential costs such as: food, petrol, insurance, council tax, utility bills, childcare 
costs as well as other essentials. It was quite possible that Ms H wouldnt have enough 
disposable income after taking into account these other costs. Ive also noted that Ms H had a large number of existing creditors and that by PCF Banks 
own calculation she was already using more than 50% of her income towards debt 
repayment. This is a significant proportion of her income and would have only been even 
more significant once the conditional sale agreement repayments were factored in. It was 
also clear that Ms H was utilising almost the full amount of her revolving credit balances and 
that she was regularly in her overdraft on her current account. This ought to have suggested 
the possibility that she was overindebted. 
Taking all of this into account, I dont think the checks PCF Bank completed were reasonable 
and proportionate in the circumstances of this case. I think it ought to have asked Ms H 
about her other committed expenditure first to get a better understanding of what disposable 
income she had, if any. 
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Ms H could sustainably repay 
the borrowing?
I cant be certain exactly what evidence or questions PCF Bank would have asked about 
Ms Hs committed expenditure if it had completed reasonable and proportionate checks. 
However, Ive reviewed her bank statements for the months leading up to the lending 
decision to understand what regular, essential commitments she had. For clarity, Im not 
suggesting PCF Bank were required to review her bank statements in this detail. But in the 
absence of anything else, I think they give a good indication of what information PCF Bank 
would likely have discovered if it had asked her about her committed expenditure. 
Ms H has told us she was spending around £400 per month on food for her family, I dont 
think this is unreasonable based on what shes told us about the size of the household. 
Further to this, I can see that she had several additional commitments including utility bills, 
council tax, various insurances and communications accounts as well as childcare costs. All 
together these additional commitments were far in excess of the £700 PCF Bank had 
calculated her disposable income to be. On top of this shed also be required to pay for the 
ongoing maintenance and running of the car. 
Its clear that had PCF Bank asked Ms H about her committed expenditure outside of her 
credit commitments it would have likely discovered the conditional sale agreement wasnt 
affordable to her. Therefore, I dont think PCF Bank made a fair lending decision and needs 
to put things right. 
Did PCF Bank act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ms H struggled to make the repayments towards the agreement relatively quickly after 
entering into it. Shed clearly struggled to maintain the payments for a considerable period of 
time. I note PCF Bank says it waived half of the arrears charges that had built up to assist 
her, but I dont think this went far enough. 
From the information PCF Bank have provided, I havent seen that it took meaningful steps 
to understand what Ms Hs financial circumstances were or what it could try to do to assist 
her further. In any event, what Im directing as a remedy for the lending decision Im satisfied 
will put right any unfair additional charges that PCF Bank applied to the agreement while 
Ms H was in arrears.
Putting things right
Its not possible to put Ms H back in exactly the position she would have been in but for 
PCF Banks unfair lending decision. As Ms H is now the owner of the car as she settled the agreement in full, so I think its reasonable she pays the cash price of the car. However, as I 
dont think PCF Bank should have approved the conditional sale agreement, I dont think its 
fair and reasonable for it to be able to charge for what it lent to Ms H. 
PCF Bank should therefore refund all the interest and charges it applied to the agreement, 
treating everything shes paid in excess of the original cash price of the car as an 
overpayment. PCF Bank should also add 8% simple interest per year from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. This is because Ms H has been deprived of using 
that money elsewhere during that time. 
Lastly, Ms H was in arrears for a considerable period of time during the agreement meaning 
PCF Bank will have likely recorded adverse information on her credit file. I dont think this is 
a fair reflection of her willingness and ability to repay because it was only due to PCF Banks 
unfair lending decision that caused her to not be able to repay. PCF Bank should therefore 
remove any adverse information it has recorded on Ms Hs credit file in relation to this 
agreement.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct PCF Bank Limited to:
Refund all the interest and charges that were added to the agreement.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on those refunds from the date of each overpayment 
to the date of settlement.
Remove all adverse information from Ms Hs credit file in relation to this agreement. 
If PCF Bank considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award it 
should provide Ms H a certificate showing how much its taken off so that Ms H can reclaim 
that amount, assuming she is eligible to do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman