DRN-1306469
 
The complaint
Miss S complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC overdraft charges on her account.
What happened
Miss S complains about the overdraft charges she has paid since about August 2017 on her 
Barclays account. She says she didn't agree to the overdraft and it shouldn't have been 
given to her. Miss S says the charges have caused her financial difficulties and distress. She 
would like them refunded.
Barclays says the charges have been correctly applied in line with the account terms and 
conditions. It says it has written to Miss S on a number of occasions offering financial help 
and support and has tried to speak to her.
Miss S brought her complaint to us and our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
didn't think the charges could be challenged on the grounds they were too high and so unfair 
based on the Supreme Court case. And thought the charges were correctly applied in line 
with account terms and conditions. The investigator thought Barclays told Miss S in 2014 
about the overdraft charges change which she could have rejected and that it had acted 
positively and sympathetically to her financial difficulties.
Miss S doesn't accept that view and says she didn't sign any overdraft agreement and 
Barclays has ignored her on numerous occasions when she has tried to speak to it. She 
says Barclays has offered to open an account for her without an overdraft. But she would 
like the charges refunded which would put her account in credit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for the same reasons. I realise Miss S will be 
disappointed by my decision.
The investigator has explained that the Supreme Court decided in 2009 that bank charges 
can't be challenged on the grounds they are too high and so unfair. I appreciate that isn't all 
of Miss S's complaint but I make that clear to her. So I have looked at the account terms and 
conditions to decide if the charges have been correctly applied. Having done so, I have not 
seen any evidence that Barclays has made the charges unfairly or that it made a mistake in 
applying them. I appreciate that Miss S says she didn't sign any application agreeing to the 
overdraft. But I'm satisfied that she could have rejected the overdraft and if necessary 
switched her account to one that didn't have an overdraft facility. In any event I can see that 
Miss S did use the overdraft and had the benefit of it.
Banks and building societies should treat cases of financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. I am satisfied that Barclays has acted in such a way here. I can see that it has written to Miss S on a number of occasions asking her to speak to its specialist debt 
team and has tried to contact her by telephone. I appreciate Miss S says Barclays has 
ignored her. But having looked at Barclays records I think on balance Miss S has been 
asking it to refund the charges rather than consider alternative methods of help. 
Overall I'm satisfied that Barclays hasn't acted unfairly or made a mistake. For those reasons 
I can't fairly order it to refund the overdraft charges. If Miss S is in financial difficulties then I 
hope she will consider speaking to Barclays or any of the other organisations the investigator 
provided details of.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman