DRN-2549970
The complaint
Ms L complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) refused to let her 
reject a faulty car.
What happened
In October 2019 Ms L acquired a new car costing £33,200 It was funded by a deposit of 
£837.67 and the balance with a hire purchase agreement. A few weeks later she noticed a 
buzzing sound from the dashboard. She took the car back to the dealer and a mechanic said 
he thought it may be the normal sound of a pump. However, in the following weeks Ms L 
says the sound became louder and could be heard over the radio. She took the car back and 
a diagnostic test was carried out. No fault was found and it was suggested that this may be 
common for this particular model. She was advised to wait until they had a similar car in, but 
Ms L felt she was being fobbed off with an incomplete explanation. 
Later the electric door mirrors ceased to tilt when the car was put into reverse gear. She was 
advised on how to reset it, but it failed again. She was also told that the dealer had taken 
delivery of a similar model and the noise was present on that one too. Ms L was 
unconvinced that there wasnt a more fundamental problem. The dealer reassured her that it 
was a normal sound and was to do with a pump which aids fuel economy.
Ms L complained to VFS which said it believed the car wasnt faulty but upheld her complaint 
and offered a goodwill payment of £200. Ms L brought her complaint to this service where it 
was considered by one of our investigators.
He asked for any evidence Ms L had of the noise, but she said it wouldnt be picked up on a 
video. He made a similar request to VFS and it suggested an independent inspection. Ms L 
agreed. 
During a 12-mile test drive by the inspector the noise could not be heard, but Ms Ls partner 
then drove it at 20 mph and when it slowed to around 10 mph and was allowed to roll a 
buzzing/vibration could be heard. This disappeared when the steering wheel was not in the 
straight position. The inspector concluded that he didnt believe the noise to be a safety 
issue, but it was unusual. He suggested further investigation. VFS suggested the next step 
would be for the car to be booked in for a full investigation and repair under warranty.
A new investigator who had taken over the case concluded that there was insufficient 
evidence to show the car was faulty such that rejection was merited. She said that it was 
open to Ms L to take the car in for further investigation and repair if needed under warranty. 
VFS had paid Ms L £200 in compensation and she considered that was fair.
Ms L didnt agree and said the car hadnt been free from minor defects and if the cause of 
the buzzing sound couldnt be identified how could anyone say the car was safe. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
VFS is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I have every sympathy with Ms L, but I dont consider I can uphold her complaint. I will 
explain why.
Ms Ls car was new and I appreciate she expected it be perfect. There is a sound which 
seems to be generated in very specific circumstances. Neither the inspector nor Ms Ls 
partner couldnt hear it during a normal 12-mile drive. It was only when her partner drove the 
car at low speeds and let it roll that the sound could be heard.   
I gather Ms L can hear it more regularly and even when the radio is on, but the evidence I 
have suggests that it is not constant and indeed to seems that it only occurs when the 
steering wheel is in a straight position. In short it hasnt been established if this is a fault or 
simply a characteristic of the car. The dealer has indicated that the latter is the case, but I 
accept that this has not been demonstrated definitively.  
Nobody has been able to show that there is a fundamental issue which lies behind this 
sound and the independent inspector concluded it wasnt safety issue. VFS has said it 
believes the car should be subjected a to another investigation by the dealer or another 
approved dealer if Ms L feels a second opinion would be beneficial. The car is still under 
warranty and if any repairs are needed then I would presume they can be carried out at no 
cost to Ms L.
I am also aware there has been an issue with the tilting door mirrors, but it is not clear if this 
remains a problem. Again, it would be a matter that should be dealt with under the warranty. 
Car are complex mechanical and electrical machines which can go wrong and if the issue is 
relatively minor then a reasonable outcome is for the minor matter to be repaired rather than 
the car to be rejected. Overall, I do not consider that rejection is merited in this case.
My final decision
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle 
the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.  So, my decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should pay £200 if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman