DRN-3891140
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined their claim against their 
travel insurance policy. Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, on 1 March 2021, Mr and Mrs L booked a family trip with 
departure and return dates of 31 March 2022 and 17 April 2022 respectively. On          
22 March 2022, Mr and Mrs L bought via a comparison website an annual travel 
insurance policy underwritten by Great Lakes. The period of cover was from                  
31 March 2022 to 30 March 2023. 
On 28 March 2022, Mrs L tested positive for Covid-19 after taking a lateral flow test. On 
31 March 2022 she took another lateral flow test on a video call with a doctor. The doctor 
certified that the result of that test was positive. Mrs L took a PCR test on 1 April 2022, 
which was also positive. 
Mr and Mrs L say that they wanted to reschedule their trip but the cost of doing so was 
prohibitive. So, they cancelled their trip and made a claim against the policy.             
Great Lakes declined the claim. It said that Mrs L contracted Covid-19 before the cover 
started. Mr and Mrs L didnt think that was fair and pursued their complaint. 
Mr and Mrs L say that Mrs L had Covid-19 on the day of their planned departure, which 
was when their cover started. They would not have been allowed to fly and could not 
travel. Mr and Mrs L want Great Lakes to settle their claim and believe it should pay the 
current market value of the trip due to the time taken to resolve this matter. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that Great Lakes 
had treated Mr and Mrs L unfairly in declining the claim in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the policy.  
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree with the investigator. They said that the policy had been     
mis-sold to them as they werent told that the cover for Covid-19 was useless if they 
started their cover on the first day of their planned trip. Mr and Mrs L say that the policy 
says that a lateral flow test isnt valid proof of Covid-19 and that they didnt prove that 
Mrs L had Covid-19 until 31 March 2022. They say that they didnt cancel their trip on             
28 March 2022 but contacted Great Lakes for advice. 
Mr and Mrs L asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me 
to decide. 
In this decision Im looking at whether Great Lakes has treated Mr and Mrs L fairly and 
reasonably. Great Lakes didnt sell the policy to Mr and Mrs L, so Im not commenting on 
the sale of the policy. The investigator has explained to Mr and Mrs L what they should 
do if they wish to pursue a complaint about mis-selling. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say  
as follows:
Commencement of cover
[]
Annual multi-trip policies
Cancellation cover starts from the start date shown on the Policy Schedule for 12 months 
during which You are covered for each Trip You book and undertake within this period. 
Cover for all other Sections applies for the duration of Your insured Trip.
The insurance product information document (IPID) says:
When does cover start and end?
[]
Annual Multi Trip policies start from the date that you request and end after 12 months.
Section 17  COVID-19 cover
PLEASE NOTE: this section of cover extends the cover provided under [] Section 3 
Cancellation [] of this Policy as follows:
A. Cancellation
We provide to each Insured Person in total per Insured Journey, up to the sum insured 
shown in the Cover limits and applicable excesses table for the level of cover You have 
selected following necessary and unavoidable cancellation of a trip as a result of:
1. You, Your Relative, a member of Your household or travelling companion or a friend with 
whom You had arranged to stay has a diagnosis of COVID-19 within 14 days of Your 
booked departure date, as certified by a Medical Practitioner following a medically 
approved test showing a positive result for COVID-19.
[]
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont uphold this 
complaint and Ill explain why:   
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. 
The cancellation benefits provided by Mr and Mrs Ls policy didnt come into effect 
until the date chosen at the point of sale as the policy start date. Ive set out above 
the relevant policy wording and the reference to this in the IPID. The policy start 
date was 31 March 2022. So, Mr and Mrs L didnt have cover for insured events 
before that date. The event which led to the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Ls trip was Mrs Ls 
diagnosis of Covid-19. That occurred before the start date of the policy. The fact 
that certification of Mrs Ls diagnosis came later doesnt alter the outcome here as 
the date of certification isnt the determining issues in this case. Neither is the date 
on which Mr and Mrs L cancelled their trip. The fact remains that the insured event 
was a diagnosis of Covid-19 which occurred before the policy start date. 
Mr and Mrs L say that when they first contacted Great Lakes it told Mrs L that the 
lateral flow test wasnt valid and that if shed had vaccinations and her positive test 
was after the date they purchased the policy, her claim would be covered.        
Great Lakes cant trace that call, so I cant know for sure what was said. On 
balance, I dont think that I can safely say that Great Lakes misled Mr and Mrs L. In 
any event, the provision of incorrect information at that point wouldnt alter the fact 
that the policy doesnt cover what happened here. 
Great Lakes acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy in 
declining the claim. And I dont think that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in doing 
so. 
I appreciate the importance of this matter to Mr and Mrs L, and Im sorry to 
disappoint them but there are no grounds on which I can fairly direct Great Lakes 
to deal with their claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman