DRN-4073977
The complaint
Mr O has complained about the way the insurer West Bay Insurance Plc dealt with a 
cancellation of his motorbike insurance policy. 
The broker carried out administration duties in relation to the setting up and cancellation of 
the policy. So I have made reference to the broker. But my decision is against West Bay as 
the insurer of the policy providing cover. 
What happened
In July 2021 Mr O set up a policy through a broker with the insurer West Bay to insure two 
bikes. 
In May 2022 the broker emailed and wrote to Mr O giving seven days notice of cancellation. 
It said the policy had been incorrectly set up as a multi bike policy. Multi policies wasnt 
something the insurer offered. It said it could amend the policy or cancel it. If it didnt hear 
from Mr O within seven days the policy would be cancelled. 
Mr O emailed and called the broker asking it not to carry out the cancellation of the policy. 
He discussed options with the broker, but both parties were unable to agree a way forward. 
Mr O received a confirmation email of cancellation two days after the cancellation date. 
Mr O complained to West Bay. He said the agent gave unclear information when he called 
again on 21 May 2022 to ask if he was insured to ride his bike. He said he made a 
reasonable proposal for cover to remain - at West Bays cost - until the end of the policy year 
as it wasnt his error. 
In response, West Bay accepted there was an error in the setting up of the policy as it was 
for two motorbikes and two riders. But it said the only way to resolve the issue would have 
been to either remove one of the bikes and/or the named driver and set up a new policy for 
the bike that had been removed. Because Mr O didnt accept either of these options, West 
Bay said the broker had no option other than to carry out the cancellation of the policy. This 
was effective from the date given on the cancellation notice. 
For the inconvenience caused by its error, West Bay paid Mr O £150 compensation. 
The Investigator thought West Bay should increase the compensation by £50 to address the 
unclear information given to Mr O about being insured when he called the broker on 21 May 
2022. 
West Bay accepted the Investigators recommendation to pay a further £50 to Mr O. 
Mr O didnt agree. He says it hasnt been explained to him why his proposal wasnt 
accepted. He hasnt had confirmation from West Bay that the cancellation hasnt been 
recorded against him. He says he drove his bike uninsured on 21 May 2022 which was their 
fault. So he doesnt believe the compensation is enough to put things right. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that an error was made in the setting up of cover for Mr O in July 2021. 
When things go wrong, we look at what the impact was and what a business did to put 
things right. 
I appreciate that Mr O rode his bike while uninsured and he was very unhappy with the lack 
of clear information given in a call with the broker. The cancellation notice sent to Mr O on 13 
May 2022 gave a cancellation date of 20 May 2022. On 21 May 2022 Mr O called to ask if 
the policy had been cancelled, to which the agent said that it was going to be. So the agent 
wasnt clear. In an email on 23 May 2022, the cancellation date was confirmed as 20 May 
2022, in line with the seven day notice.
When considering a resolution to a complaint, we look at what happened rather than what 
might have happened. Fortunately there were no consequences as a result of Mr O riding 
his bike after the cancellation date. And while I understand Mr O finds his proposal was 
entirely reasonable, once the insurer discovered its error, West Bay and the broker gave Mr 
O the option to discuss amendment with it. When Mr O was able to discuss the options, he 
wanted West Bay to provide cover until the end of the policy year - two months later. I cant 
say that West Bay acted unreasonably by not choosing to do this - having identified its error. 
West Bay waived its cancellation fee - and it paid Mr O £150 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by its error in the setting up of the policy. It has agreed to pay an 
additional £50, bringing the total compensation award to £200. 
I think this is a fair outcome for West Bays failings and the impact on Mr O. 
In an email to this service dated 29 August 2022, the broker has confirmed the following:
I can confirm that the cancellation was not enforced and would therefore not need to 
be disclosed to future insurers.
For completeness, Ive asked West Bay to confirm this in writing to Mr O as part of my 
decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require West Bay Insurance Plc to do the 
following: 
pay Mr O £50 compensation in addition to the £150 its already paid him for the 
distress and inconvenience caused in the handling of the cancellation of his 
policy. 
West Bay should provide Mr O with a letter confirming it has made no record of a 
cancellation of a policy by it - so that Mr O doesnt need to declare a cancellation 
by an insurer if asked in future.
West Bay Insurance Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr O accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman