DRN-1722794
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited overcharged her for a returned 
item.
What happened
Mrs H has a fairly active account with SDF and some purchases are acquired on a buy now 
pay later (BNPL) basis. In December 2017 she ordered a games console costing £259.99 on 
BNPL terms. It was the wrong one so she returned it and bought another one also on BNPL 
terms.
Both items remained on her account and a year later when she was due to pay for the 
consoles SDL Mrs H made a payment of £808.99 which included £259.99 to cover the cost 
on one console. SDL credited her account with £259.99 on 13 December and again on 22 
January 2019. SDL then debited £259.99 to correct the error it had made. Later it credited 
£120.49 of interest it had charged in error.
Mrs H believed SDL had made an error and complained. It rejected her complaint so she 
brought the matter to this service. It was considered by one of our investigators. He noted 
the numerous transactions on the account which made it difficult to follow with various 
credits debits payments and some goods being bought on BNPL and others not. He 
concluded that SDL should pay Mrs H £100 compensation for the delays and confusion in 
addition to the £45 it had paid in 2019.
SDL didnt agree and suggested it pay £75 in total. Mrs H challenged the latest balance and 
our investigator continued to dig into the statements issued by SDL and the payments made 
by Mrs H. This work continued when a new investigator took over and after many further 
exchanges SDL said that the balance owed by Mrs H was correct, but it acknowledged that 
her experience had been less than satisfactory. 
It offered to remove the £259.99 from the account as well as the 3 administration charges 
incurred since the issue was raised (a total of £295.99), leaving a remaining balance of 
£82.73. This would be instead of the £100 compensation. It suggested Mrs H should pay the 
outstanding balance without delay and it would amend the credit file to show as Q whilst the 
complaint had been ongoing.
Mrs H didnt agree and said she would take legal action. She hasnt confirmed that she has 
taken any such action.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I can see how the confusion arose. Mrs Hs account is a very busy one and with a variety of 
transactions and money moving in different directions it is not easy to follow. However, I 
have had the benefit of hindsight and having have spent some time going through lengthy 
account statements and spreadsheets and other evidence I have concluded that SDL ended 
up charging Mrs H the right amount.
In short, her account was debited with two sums of £259.99 on BNPL terms. One of these 
should have been removed, but this didnt happen and Mrs H made a payment to cover the 
cost of one console. SDL then credited her account twice instead of once as it should have 
done. It then recredited £259.99 which I believe to have been correct, but it didnt explain 
why it had done this. It later corrected the interest charges to reflect the corrected account.
Therefore, it made several errors along the way the main one being double crediting £259.99 
in error and then recrediting it without a clear explanation at the time. I fully understand why 
Mrs H believes her account is wrong, but I think it has now been corrected.
It has taken some time and quite bit of time and effort by Mrs H to get to this point which is 
why I think the latest offer by SDL is fair. In effect it gives what I consider to be fair 
compensation for her troubles. I note she has said she was going to take legal action and if 
she does my decision will fall by the wayside.
My direction that SDL amend her credit file entry only applies to the current situation and if 
Mrs H falls into arrears or doesnt pay off her outstanding balance without delay then it would 
be in order for SDL to report any such matter to the credit reference agencies. 
Putting things right
I consider SDLs offer to be fair and reasonable.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited to:
Credit Mrs Hs account with £259.99 in addition to the compensation of £45 it has 
already offered/paid and 
Amend her credit file to show Q.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman