DRN-3313959
The complaint
Mr G says Ageas Insurance Limited acted unreasonably in preventing him from buying a 
motor insurance policy from it.
What happened
On 17 June 2021 Mr M saw a quote for a policy with Ageas on a comparison website. He 
wanted his 18-year old daughter to be insured as a named driver and said the policy was to 
start on 19 June 2021. Mr M was transferred to Ageass website. He says he called Ageas at 
that point to confirm his details and to see if he could change the start date. An advisor told 
him that Ageas didnt insure drivers under 20 years old. The advisor said a system issue 
affecting comparison websites meant that a quote for an Ageas policy had appeared when it 
shouldnt have done. Mr M didnt accept that explanation and made a complaint to Ageas. 
Ageas didnt accept that it was at fault, but it offered Mr M £25 as a gesture of goodwill for 
the inconvenience of having got a quote due to the system issue and trying to act on it.
 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ms complaint. She noted that he said hed lost out by 
having to pay for taxis and for a much more expensive policy due to what he saw as Ageass 
error. She thought the system issue was outside Ageass control  and that Mr Ms 
application for cover didnt meet Ageass criteria. She didnt think it had acted unreasonably. 
Mr M said that as he got a quote, Ageas should have let him buy the policy. He said £25 
didnt compensate for his losses and for his daughter being without insurance for a week. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for Ageas to decide the terms on which it will offer insurance to consumers. I think its 
clear that - had there not been a technical issue when Mr M looked at comparison websites - 
Ageas wouldnt have appeared as a potential insurer for Mr M with his daughter as a named 
driver. I dont think a technical issue can be regarded as an error on Ageass part. Such 
issues can and do occur from time to time without anyone being at fault. 
Ageas says Mr M was prevented from paying for the policy once he was transferred to its 
own website. And its file notes show that he called it straight away. The advisor told Mr M 
just 10 minutes after he got the quote that Ageas was not able to offer him insurance - and 
why. So I think any detriment to Mr M was limited to making a call to Ageas. Mr M wouldnt 
have done so if the comparison website hadnt brought up a quote for Ageass policy, so 
some of his time was wasted. I think the £25 offer made by Ageas as a gesture of goodwill 
compensated him for that.  
I dont think it was reasonable for Mr M to expect Ageas to sell a policy to him when his 
details didnt meet Ageass stated criteria. Mr M says he could have bought the policy had he 
not decided to call Ageas, as it was only then that he was stopped from doing so. But Ageas 
only advertises and offers policies to young drivers aged 20 years or older. So despite his 
recollection of events, I think its far more likely than not that once Mr M was on Ageass 
website (which the system issue didnt affect) it would have recognised that the details hed 
given fell outside its criteria. Consequently, it wouldnt have allowed him to proceed. 
  
I dont think Mr M has shown that any losses he incurred are Ageass responsibility, as 
theres no evidence that it made an error. Ageas asked him about the money he spent on 
taxis anyway. Mr M said that on 18 June 2021 (the day after he called Ageas) he went to 
collect the car that hed tried to insure with Ageas. He said as he didnt have insurance in 
place, he had to pay for a taxi home. Ageas had told Mr M the day before that it couldnt 
offer him cover, so I cant see why Mr M thinks Ageas should reimburse him for that.  
In addition, Mr M told Ageas that he had another policy in place on 18 June 2021  although 
Ageass notes show it thought his new policy started on 19 June 2021. Either way, it isnt 
clear why Mr M said his daughter was without insurance for a week.  And even if that were 
the case, Ageas couldnt be held responsible for it. Once it had told Mr M that it couldnt offer 
cover, it was for him to make other arrangements as quickly as possible. 
In my opinion, Ageas isnt to blame for Mr M having to pay more for cover elsewhere than 
the price he was quoted for Ageass policy, either. Cover from Ageas was never available, 
and it has no control over the premiums charged by others.
 
As I dont think Mr M has shown that Ageas acted unfairly or unreasonably, Im not 
upholding his complaint.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman