DRN-3921286
The complaint
Miss W complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) failed to fully repair
the damage caused to her car during an accident, under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss W was involved in a car accident. She contacted Admiral and it arranged for the
damage to be repaired. Miss W says there was a noise coming from the car, which she
noticed immediately after the accident and informed the garage. But when the car was
returned only the body work had been repaired and the noise continued.
Miss W returned the car to the garage straight away. She was told it would need to obtain
authority for any further work from her insurer. Miss W then drove home in her car. Admiral
sent an inspector to look at the issues Miss W had reported. She says the inspector didnt
spend much time looking at the car and didnt inspect the mechanics. Admiral didnt think the
issues reported were related to the accident and didnt authorise further repairs.
Miss W arranged for her car to be looked at by another garage. It says the gearbox is
grinding in first and second gear and that its leaking. It suggested this was the result of the
accident, but that further investigation was required. Miss W says she provided a copy of
these findings to Admiral and asked it to authorise payment for a fuller investigation. It didnt
agree to this. So, she paid for the car to be stripped and for the repairs to be carried out
herself.
Miss W thought Admiral should pay for the repair costs and so raised a complaint. Admiral
declined to cover the cost of additional repairs. It says Miss Ws garage has incorrectly
determined damage was caused to the near side wing and front wheel of the car during the
accident. But there was only damage to the front of the car. It says there is no evidence to
support the gear box was damaged during the accident.
Because Admiral didnt change its decision, Miss W referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld her complaint. She thought the garage shouldve mentioned the gear
box noise when Miss W collected the car. Rather than let her drive off. She also thought the
information Miss Ws garage had provided was more persuasive than the roadside
inspection Admiral had arranged.
Our investigator says Admiral should pay for the cost of the repairs plus interest. And pay
Miss W £350 for the inconvenience and the travel costs she had incurred. Admiral
disagreed. It says the accident damage reported by Miss Ws garage wasnt accurate. It
didnt think Miss W had shown that the gear box had been damaged by this event. Our
investigator maintained her view. So, Admiral asked for an ombudsman to consider this
complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2022 explaining that I was intending to not 
uphold Miss Ws complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im minded not to uphold Miss Ws complaint. Let me explain.
Im not an expert mechanic and so I must rely on the opinion of those who are. Ive read the
report from Admirals inspector, after Miss W highlighted the ongoing noise issue, to
understand what was found. The report says:
The insured is now experiencing a grinding noise when braking. I have been unable to view
the brakes as steel wheels are fitted to the vehicle. However, the noise the insured is
experiencing sounds like the brake pads are low on material. Taking this into account I do
not believe this is incident related and no further action is required.
The insured is reporting a whirring/grinding noise coming from the vehicle whilst driving and
on idle. The repairers have test driven the vehicle and believe it is coming from the gearbox.
The insured has taken me out on a road test in the vehicle and I can confirm that the noise
does appear to be coming from the gearbox. Taking into account the nature of the incident
damage I do not believe this is due to the incident but comtributal [sic] to wear and tear pre
incident damage. No further action is required.
Having considered the facts and the original estimate the cause of the above defects are not
the responsibility of the repairers and these defects will not require rectification.
From this its clear the inspector didnt think the issues reported were linked to the accident.
However, I note Miss Ws comments that the inspection was limited in time and in scope.
There was no in-depth investigation to inspect the mechanics of the car, to see if there had
been unidentified damage resulting from the accident.
Ive read the report from Miss Ws garage. The first is dated in mid-January 2022. It says:
Vehicle was involved in accident previously where the impact to the N/S front wing and
wheel possible causing the driveshaft to go into the gearbox. As a result, the selector is
grinding in first and second gear, and gearbox is leaking. Clutch needs replacing as does
gearbox. Vehicle pulling towards the left.
I note Miss Ws comments that she sent this information to Admiral and it refused to
authorise a further inspection, paid for by her policy, to investigate the damage. Ive read the
follow up report provided by the same garage from the beginning of February 2022. This is
after Miss W arranged for the issue to be investigated in full and for repairs to be carried out.
The report says:
This vehicle was involved in an accident in which the nearside front of the vehicle was hit,
namely the n/s front wheel and n/s front wing. As a result the vehicle was no longer driving
correctly, it was pulling to the left, and also had a loud noise coming from the transmission.
After further inspection and removal of gearbox we found that the N/S driveshaft had been
pushed into the gearbox due to the impact of the collision as a result damaging the bearings,
and also the clutch due to fluid leak. Also, the N/S front suspension was bent, namely the
suspension lower arm and the shock absorber. These issues are a result of the accident in
our professional opinion due to no signs of wear and tear.
The invoice provided by Miss Ws garage to complete these repairs was for £1,953.Admiral says the damage to Miss Ws car was to the front end only. It says there was no
damage to the wing or to the front near side wheel as indicated by her garage. It says for the
driveshaft to be pushed into the gearbox, as suggested, the impact would need to be
perpendicular to the front near side wheel. Admiral says there is no evidence that this
happened. It comments that as the impact was to the front of the car, there was no
transference of damage to the sides or to the steering suspension areas of the vehicle.
Ive looked at the engineers report from the original accident repairs. Under, Damage
Areas it says, Centre Front. From the description of the parts that were replaced, this is
limited to the front section of the car, including the bumper, grille, and other components
again relating to the front of the car.
The photos included with the report show damage to the passenger side of the front bumper.
I cant see impact damage to the wheel or to the wing. Although the bumper extends around
to the passenger side of the car at low level and is dislodged. But the scratches and dents
are all located at the front of the car, not on the passenger side wing.
Ive thought carefully about all of the evidence. Having done so I think Admirals argument is
more persuasive. Specifically, that for the gearbox to be damaged in the way described by
Miss Ws garage, there would be signs of an impact to the front passenger side wheel and/or
wing. From the photos provided the only impact was to the front of the car. This doesnt
support the view that the drive shaft was pushed into the gearbox. As explained by Admirals
engineers the impact would have to come from the side, not the front.
The records show when Miss W made her claim, she described a collision between the
passenger side of her front bumper and the drivers side of the other vehicle. She described
the approximate speed of the collision as, hardly moving. I dont think this supports
damage having been caused to the gearbox in the way Miss Ws garage indicates.
Having considered all of this, Im more persuaded by the view provided by Admirals
engineers, that the damage cant have happened as a result of the accident. I havent seen
evidence that shows a side on impact occurred. This is what Miss Ws garage has given as
the cause of the gearbox damage. Because of this I dont think Admiral behaved unfairly in
declining to cover the cost of repairs not linked to the accident Miss W reported. So, I cant
reasonably ask it to do anymore.
I said I was intending to not uphold this complaint. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Neither party responded with any further comments or information for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I do 
not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman