DRN-2218642
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy with the service she received from Mapfre Asistencia, Compania 
Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A.
What happened
Ms M was on holiday with her partner and her young daughter when her partner 
unexpectedly died. Ms M was unhappy with the level of service she received from Mapfre 
and because they wouldnt agree to cover her phone bill which amounted to over £4000. 
In September 2020 I issued a provisional decision explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Ms Ms complaint and award her £750 compensation. I also said that I thought Mapfre 
should cover 25% of the total phone bill as Ms M had spent a lot of time and money 
contacting them and researching information. 
I said that I was intending to reach this conclusion because I thought Ms M had received a 
poor level of service during the time following her partners death during a very difficult time. 
That included poor communication in the hours after his death and not making adequate 
arrangements for her partners belongings to be returned to the UK. And, Mapfre also wrote 
to Ms Ms partner after his death and didnt cover the cost of Ms Ms daughters return flight 
to the UK.
Ms M and Mapfre both accepted my provisional decision and didnt add any further 
comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional findings theres no reason for me to reach a 
different conclusion. 
I think that Mapfre didnt provide a good level of service to Ms M during the hours and days 
after her partners death. I think this caused her a substantial amount of distress and 
inconvenience when she was dealing with her own grief, and that of her daughter. So I think 
Mapfre should pay £750 compensation to reflect the trouble and upset caused to her. 
I also think that due to the poor communication Ms M had to spend a lot of time and money 
making calls and using the internet, including trying to make arrangements for her partners 
body to be removed from the hospital. But there were also lots of calls, understandably, to 
family and friends. So I think Mapfre should pay 25% of the total phone bill. 
Mapfre should also cover the cost of Ms Ms daughters flight if it hasnt done so already. 
Putting things right
Mapfre needs to put things right by paying Ms M: 
£750 for the distress and inconvenience caused by poor customer service 
25% of her total phone bill plus 8% simple interest from the date the claim was 
submitted to the date of settlement
The cost of Ms Ms daughters flight if it hasnt done so already. 
If Mapfre considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Ms M how much its taken off. It should also give Ms M a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
Im upholding Ms Ms complaint about Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De 
Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. and direct it to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman