DRN-3517813
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc provided him poor service regarding a cheque
payment.
Mr B is represented by his mother in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill refer
to any submission and comments she has made as being made by Mr B himself.
What happened
Mr B received a gift in March 2021. The money was paid into his HSBC account. Mr B wrote
a cheque out for over £60,000 to redeem his mortgage with a third party bank which he sent
to them on 31 March 2021.
After the Easter weekend, Mr B says that the money debited his HSBC account on 7 April
2021, so Mr B was under the impression he had successfully redeemed his mortgage. Mr B
says that HSBC attempted to ring him on 7 April and spoke to his parents, but HSBC
wouldnt confirm why they were ringing as they wanted to speak to Mr B. They then tried to
ring Mr Bs mobile, but as Mr B was working, HSBC left a message for him to return the call,
which he did. Mr B says that when he returned the call there was a message saying there
was no further action required.
Mr B says that he checked his account the following day, only to see that the funds had been
returned to his account. He rang HSBC, who informed him that the cheque had been
stopped due to the amount and they needed him to either visit a branch to authorise a
payment or re-present the cheque again which would take a further three days to clear. Mr B
chose the second option.
Mr B says the funds debited his account on 13 April, but he received a text from the third
party bank to say there had been a problem with the funds that had been sent. Mr B finally
received confirmation on 14 May 2021, that his mortgage had been redeemed. He says both
banks blamed each other for where the funds were.
Mr B says that when he spoke to a manager at HSBC, they told him they could trace the
cheque and the manager would ring him the following day to give him an update  but he
didnt.
As Mr B was unable to deal with this during his working hours, he asked HSBC if his parents
could have authority to act on his behalf. Mr B says he was told in order for this to happen he
needed to get a Power of Attorney (POA), which Mr B paid £82 online for this.
Mr Bs parents visited a HSBC branch on 5 May 2021 with a third party mandate and
identification documents. Mr B says the staff member was able to locate the missing funds
and they were in a HSBC holding account. The funds were located in 15 minutes, despite
other colleagues previously not being able to locate the funds. The staff member suggested
to Mr B that he visited the branch the following day to send the funds electronically and
HSBC would waive their normal fee as this was their error, as they confirmed they had the
funds all along  but this could only be done after the funds were transferred from HSBCs
holding account to his current account.
As the funds hadnt been transferred over the next few days, Mr Bs parents again returned
to the branch to try and find out where the money was. The staff member explained to Mr Bs
parents that she had emailed the relevant department on 5 May, but she hadnt had a reply
yet. Mr Bs parents left the branch after the staff member confirmed to them that shed had a
response and the funds would be back in Mr Bs account within 48 hours.
As the funds werent in his account within 48 hours, Mr Bs parents returned to the branch.
While they were waiting to be seen, Mr B received a call from HSBC, explaining that the
money had been with the third party bank when the cheque had been re-presented on 9
April, and they could see on 30 April that the funds were with the third party banks mortgage
services account.
Mr B made a complaint to HSBC. He said the trace should have been requested much
earlier than it was, as it was only requested on 10 May 2021, which was roughly six weeks
after his mortgage should have been redeemed. On 13 May, Mr B received a call from
HSBC to confirm the sort code and account number his funds were credited to on 30 April
2021.
HSBC upheld Mr Bs complaint. They initially credited Mr Bs account with £100 as a
goodwill gesture. They then credited Mr Bs account with £150, as they said he did not need
to pay to get a POA as Mr B could have just completed a third party mandate to allow his
parents to act on his behalf. Mr B brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought the compensation that had been paid was fair for the 
circumstances. Mr B asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number
of points, but in summary, he said that HSBC were responsible for the situation lasting as
long as it did as when the third party bank said that HSBC had stopped the cheque again on
13 April, then they should have made every effort to find his money and if they had done so,
this would have been solved immediately instead of him enduring weeks of stress and worry
about the missing funds.
Mr B said that as he had written to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), then he would have
expected the CEO to give him a personal reply and he wants the CEO to write to him
personally. Mr B said his complaint shouldnt have been closed down without it being
resolved and that they had inconvenienced himself and his parents by giving them
misinformation.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset Id like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the
enforcer for the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts
as an informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. We look
at the circumstances of individual complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into
account relevant industry guidance for example, make findings about whether a financial
business has failed its customer in any way.
Where we find it has, we make awards designed to make the business put things right with
the complainant customer. Our awards are not designed to punish a business or to make it
change the way it acts in order to protect other customers in the future. That is the role of theregulator.
I want to be clear that I can only consider the actions here of HSBC and not the actions of
the third party bank. This is because this complaint is about HSBC only.
Mr B has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
I need to explain to Mr B that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and
as such, the issues hes raised that relate directly to how HSBC have investigated his
complaint, such as who responds to his email when he writes to the CEO and how they
decide to close a complaint down doesnt come under my powers to consider.
I also must explain to Mr B that I can only consider the impact HSBC actions have had on
him personally and not his parents. This is because our rules only allow us to consider
awards for eligible complainants. Representatives arent eligible complainants  and so we
cant award for any impact experienced by them personally.
Ive considered, on the balance of probabilities what happened to Mr Bs funds after the
cheque was re-presented on 9 April. I know Mr B has had conflicting information, so Id like
to explain to him what Im persuaded happened.
It does appear that the cheque had only been stopped once by HSBC. I say this as Mr B is
aware that due to the amount of the cheque, there was security concerns originally which led
to the cheque needing to be re-presented. While the third party have said that HSBC
stopped the cheque again, I asked HSBC how many times they stopped the cheque. They
told me they couldnt see any evidence they stopped the cheque again after 7 April. They
also told me that when they couldnt get in contact with Mr B on 7 April this stopped the
cheque from being paid, and a form was added to his customer profile. When this form was
worked by HSBC on 9 April, HSBC say the funds had already debited his account. So I am
persuaded its unlikely they stopped the cheque after this point.
Ive then thought about why HSBC staff said the funds were in their holding account and
then later said that the third party had the funds from 9 April. This confliction of information
caused a lot of confusion and Mr B emailed the third party based on the conflicting
information, which would have inconvenienced him.
So I asked HSBC about this. HSBC have explained to me that the holding account has
restrictions placed on it so not all staff have full access to this account for security reasons.
They explained that branch staff would be able to see credits into the holding account but
not debits. This would explain why Mr B was told that his funds were in the holding account,
when the funds were with the third party.
Ive also seen messages between the two banks. Im persuaded this is further evidence that
HSBC did not have the funds after 9 April. I say this because HSBC sent the third party bank
a message on 8 April which said cheque was unpaid in error, customer would like the
cheque to be paid.are you able to accept credit. On 8 April, the third party bank responds
please send funds, thanks. On 9 April, HSBC then send the third party bank a message
saying that they were performing an action to settle the payment and close it from their end, I
can see that their message submission was accepted.
So it does appear that on 9 April HSBC submitted the funds and this was accepted by the
third party bank. If the third party bank had not received the funds from HSBC it would have
been reasonable for them to message HSBC back within a reasonable timeframe to askwhere were the funds they said they would send. But this didnt happen at all, so Im
persuaded that HSBC had sent the third party bank the funds and the third party bank, on
the balance of the evidence here, received them.
The next messages were on 10 May when HSBC messaged the third party bank to inform
them that they had previously sent the payment for the cheque and the funds were in a
miscellaneous account. The third party bank then confirms that on 13 May that the funds
were credited to Mr Bs mortgage account.
So although Im not persuaded the funds were with HSBC after the cheque had been re-
presented, I am persuaded that they couldve acted earlier with the information Mr B gave
them, which may have resulted in finding out where the missing funds were sooner. I say
this as a trace was not put on the cheque at the earliest opportunity. In addition, incorrect
and conflicting information wasted time, such as staff telling Mr B that his funds were in the
holding account and to wait for 48 hours for it to be returned to him, only to not receive the
funds then  as in all likelihood the funds werent in the holding account at the time he was
told. And while staff may not have had access to see the funds leaving this account, Mr B
was still inconvenienced by what they told him.
HSBC have let Mr B down on several occasions since he wrote the cheque to redeem his
mortgage. I say this as they had told him incorrect information, conflicting information, not
acted upon requests as soon as they could have done and cost Mr B money with information
they gave him. HSBC have taken Mr Bs word that he was told the only way his parents
could act on his behalf was with a POA. Im satisfied that Mr B was told this, otherwise I see
little reason why he would pay for this around the same time he wanted his parents to act on
his behalf as he was at work and it would be more convenient for his parents to act on his
behalf. So what I would expect HSBC to do is to give Mr B an apology and pay him suitable
compensation.
Ive considered whether the compensation paid is fair. HSBC paid Mr B £100 compensation
as a gesture of goodwill when he originally made them aware of the problem. This was paid
before the situation was resolved so it couldnt have taken into account the issues Mr B
encountered after this payment. Then Mr B was paid a further £150. This included the £82
cost of the POA and the remainder of the £150 was for the wrong information about the POA
and the other errors. So £68 of this would be to take into consideration the further conflicting
information, delays and wrong information about him needing a POA for his parents to act on
his behalf.
Compensation is a discretionary remedy that we sometimes award if we feel that a business
has acted wrongfully and therefore caused distress and inconvenience to their customer
over and above that which naturally flows from the event. When we recommend
compensation, it is often modest and within our established guidelines. As previously
mentioned, I cant consider the impact of the actions of HSBC had on Mr Bs parents,
although I can assure Mr B, Ive read everything hes said about the impact this had on
them.
Im persuaded that an extra £100 compensation would be reasonable, bring the total
compensation to £350. Im persuaded this is fair as Im satisfied the money wasnt sitting
with HSBCs account once the cheque had been re-presented for the reasons Ive already
given. But HSBCs actions still will have inconvenienced Mr B and distressed him, especially
as he couldnt get accurate assistance in locating the large amount of money which he sent
to the third party bank. Im satisfied that a total compensation of £350 will reflect the impact
the issues had on Mr B.
Ive then thought about what Mr B has said about wanting the CEO of HSBC to personallywrite to him. While I can understand why Mr B wants this to happen, Im not persuaded this
is reasonable here and Ill explain why.
As our investigator explained to Mr B, our role is to try and put him in the position he would
have been in had HSBC not made any errors, or as close to it as possible. But the CEO
wouldnt have responded personally to his complaint at any stage, so Im not persuaded it
would be necessary for him to do so now, even if Mr B did write personally to the CEO.
I know this will strongly disappoint Mr B, but as HSBC have issued apologies already, I see
little benefit in instructing HSBC to issue yet another written apology to Mr B, from someone
who has had no involvement at all in the complaint. I am satisfied that HSBC accepts they let
Mr B down on a number of occasions and theyve said they have provided feedback to the
people involved to try and prevent this from happening again. And as Ive already explained,
complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and as such, Im unable to say
who should respond to HSBC complaints specifically.
In summary, HSBC have let Mr B down on a number of occasions detailed above. So it
follows I intend to ask HSBC to put things right for Mr B by paying him an extra £100
compensation, to take the total compensation to £350.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Both parties accepted the provisional decision and both parties had no further 
information for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to ask HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr B an extra 
£100 compensation for distress and inconvenience. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for 
the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part. HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr B an extra £100 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman