DRN-1651079
The complaint
Ms Gs complained HSBC UK Bank PLC (HSBC) gave her the wrong information about 
fees charged for switching her mortgage to a different rate. And she says figures HSBC used 
in the mortgage offer were wrong.
What happened
Ms G had a tracker mortgage with HSBC for a number of years. In the latter part of 2019, 
she thought this might mean that she was paying more interest than she needed to. So she 
contacted HSBC to ask what alternatives might be available.
Following several conversations with HSBC staff, HSBC issued an offer to Ms G for a 
mortgage with a rate fixed until early 2022. The offer states that theres a fee of £999 for this 
product, which HSBC added to the advance.
Ms G complained to HSBC about this. She said that shed been told that, because shes an 
HSBC Premier account holder, she would only pay a fee of £499. And she complained that 
the figures in the offer for the amount she wanted to borrow and the early repayment charge 
were wrong.
HSBC considered Ms Gs complaint. They agreed shed been told the fee for the mortgage 
was £499. But they said their employee had made a mistake when they said this  the 
reduced fee only applied to their five year fixed rate mortgages. They apologised to Ms G 
and paid her £20 compensation for the mistake.
HSBC explained the figure for the amount to be borrowed was made up of the amount of   
Ms Gs outstanding mortgage, the £999 fee and the amount of interest which had accrued 
since shed last made a payment. So HSBC said that the figure in the offer was right. And 
the early redemption charge figure  which is also calculated using the amount borrowed - 
was right as well.  
Ms G accepted the mortgage offer a few days later.  But she wasnt satisfied with HSBCs 
response  so she brought her complaint to us. Our investigator considered what Ms G had 
raised but didnt think that HSBC should have done anything differently. He said that whilst 
theyd given her incorrect information it wasnt fair for them to be bound by this.  
Ms G didnt accept the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding     Ms Gs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the call recordings that have been supplied.  And I agree that Ms G was told 
that, as a Premier customer, she would pay a reduced fee of £499 for the mortgage.  So Ive 
had to think about the impact of that  and whether HSBC shouldve done more than pay  
Ms G £20 compensation.
Ms G says this is a misrepresentation.  I dont agree  I think its a mistake.  The wrong 
information was given over the telephone while Ms G was making enquiries about a new 
mortgage.  The mortgage offer issued the following day had the right fee.  
So Im satisfied that Ms G had the right information before she accepted the offer.  And Ive 
seen she queried this with HSBC  so she also knew, when she accepted, that HSBC had 
checked and confirmed the fee to her.  Its unfortunate they made a mistake - but I dont 
think HSBC need do anything more than theyve done already to apologise for that error.
Ms Gs also complained that the mortgage offer showed the wrong loan amount. The loan 
amount was made up of the sum owed under her existing mortgage, the fee and accrued 
interest.  
One of the reasons Ms G didnt agree the amount of the loan was she thought the fee was 
£499.  Ive dealt with that above.  But she also didnt understand why HSBC added a sum for 
interest.
Mortgage interest accrues on a daily basis. But borrowers make payments monthly  so 
there is nearly always some interest due to the lender.  I can see that Ms Gs mortgage was 
to be switched part way through the month  which means interest wouldve accrued for the 
days since shed last made a payment and before the mortgage was switched.
HSBC explained this to Ms G when they replied to her complaint.  And Im satisfied that they 
were entitled to that interest.  So I dont think they need to do anything more than that.  
Finally, Ive looked at the early redemption charge (ERC).  Ms G says its wrong  she thinks 
the figure should be lower.  Ive thought about this  and about the reason banks include this 
information in an offer.
ERCs only become payable when a borrower pays off their mortgage early.  Lenders 
provide the information so borrowers who decide to do that arent surprised by how much 
they have to pay.  
In Ms Gs case, the offer contains a figure thats the maximum shed have to pay in those 
circumstances.  Its calculated as a percentage of the amount she owes.  So the maximum 
ERC reduces every time she makes a payment  and is likely to be less now than either the 
figure in the offer or the figure Ms G calculated (based on a lower borrowing figure she 
thought the offer shouldve contained).  In these circumstances, I dont think its necessary to 
comment any further. 
As I dont think HSBC should have done anything differently, Im not asking them to do 
anything more for Ms G in relation to her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Ms Gs complaint about HSBC UK Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 Helen Stacey
Ombudsman