DRN-4169591
The complaint
Mrs J complains about the actions of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) whilst 
dealing with a claim she made under her home insurance policy.
Mrs J has made several complaints to RSA which relate to this claim. Some of these issues 
were dealt with by our service under a separate complaint. In this decision, I will be 
considering her concerns about damage she says occurred when her piano was returned to 
her property.
RSA is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As RSA has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in 
my decision, any reference to RSA includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
In mid-2022, RSA arranged for Mrs Js piano to be returned to her property after being kept 
in storage. Mrs J complained that the men who delivered it to her dropped it whilst trying to 
carry it upstairs and then tried to pull it up. She said this caused damage to the piano and 
staircase woodwork and had stained her carpet. 
RSAs contractors disputed dropping the piano, but RSA arranged for Mrs Js carpet to be 
cleaned and her newel post to be redecorated as a gesture of goodwill. It also paid her £100 
to compensate her for delays in the work being carried out. RSA didnt agree to pay for 
repairs to Mrs Js piano, but it offered her £50 towards the cost of a French polish as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Js concerns and considered the steps it had already taken 
to try to put things right. He didnt think there was enough evidence to show that RSAs 
contractors had damaged Mrs Js piano. He thought RSAs offer to contribute towards the 
costs of a French polish was reasonable. However, he recommended RSA pay Mrs J an 
additional £100 for the delay in sorting out the carpet cleaning and redecorating.
Mrs J said the contractors who came to repair the newel post had confirmed that the piano 
had been dropped. She said the damage sustained to her home was made clear to the 
contractors on the day it happened, but they told her to contact RSA and it was not policy to 
write it on the inspection sheet. She said they told her she was not allowed to do that.
Our investigator passed Mrs Js comments on to RSA and asked if it could gather more 
information about what the contractors discussed with Mrs J when they visited her in 
December 2022. RSA had some difficulty obtaining further information regarding this. 
However, its since told us that the contractors dispute saying to Mrs J that the piano was 
dropped.
RSA agreed to our investigators recommendation to pay Mrs J a further £100. However, this 
wasnt enough to resolve Mrs Js concerns. She said basic piano polishing starts from £950 
and she asked that RSA contribute more. She said RSAs own photos show no damage at 
the start and significant damage after the delivery of her piano. She said RSAs contractors 
had deliberately dropped her piano and were lying about it. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Ive considered everything Mrs J has told our service, but Ill be keeping my findings to what I 
believe to be the crux of her complaint. I wish to reassure Mrs J Ive read and considered 
everything she has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, 
it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to 
reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of 
the informal nature of our service.
Mrs J says that when her piano was returned to her from storage in July 2022, RSAs 
contractors dropped it, marking her carpet and causing damage to the piano and newel post 
at the bottom of her stairs.
RSAs contractors dispute dropping the piano. They commented that the piano was export 
wrapped and wouldnt have marked the carpet. 
Ive seen a photograph showing that the piano was export wrapped on the date it was 
removed from Mrs Js property and Mrs J has confirmed the piano was wrapped when it was 
returned to her. Its unclear how the carpet was marked. However, RSA has paid for it to be 
cleaned, so I havent considered this further. 
Mrs J has provided several photographs which she says show damage RSAs contractors 
caused to her piano. There are a number of marks on various parts of the piano. However, I 
cant see any obvious signs of damage that indicate the piano was dropped. 
Its difficult to compare the photographs Mrs J has sent of the damage to her piano with 
those that were taken by RSAs contractors prior to it being removed from her property. 
Some of the damage in Mrs Js photographs is on parts of the piano that are obscured in 
RSAs photographs. So, I cant see if it was pre-existing. However, I can see some scratches 
and scuffs in RSAs photos from before the move. So, I dont think the piano was in perfect 
condition before it was removed from Mrs Js property.
Its possible that RSAs contractors dropped the piano. However, I havent seen strong 
enough evidence to conclude that RSA is responsible for the damage Mrs J is claiming 
compensation for. RSA hasnt accepted liability for the alleged damage. It arranged for     
Mrs Js carpet to be cleaned and her newel post to be redecorated as a gesture of goodwill. 
I appreciate Mrs J strongly believes that RSA should pay for her piano to be polished and 
retuned. However, as Im not persuaded that RSA is responsible for the alleged damage, I 
dont think it would be fair for me to tell it to do this. I think the £50 its offered to pay Mrs J to 
go towards a French polish for the piano in attempt to resolve matters for her was 
reasonable.
The carpet was cleaned, and the newel post was redecorated around five months after Mrs J 
first raised her concerns. It looks like there were some difficulties arranging this because of 
Mrs Js limited availability. I can see that RSA arranged for the work to take place on a Saturday with both the carpet cleaning and decorating being carried out on the same day to 
minimise the inconvenience for her. However, RSA has acknowledged being responsible for 
some of the delay in getting things sorted out. Its paid Mrs J £100 and has accepted our 
investigators recommendation to pay her a further £100. I think this fairly recognises any 
distress and inconvenience RSA caused Mrs J in relation to this matter. So, whilst I 
appreciate this will be disappointing for Mrs J, I havent found reason to award her 
compensation above the amount our investigator recommended.
Putting things right
RSA should pay Mrs J £150 (including the £50 it offered to be put towards the cost of a 
French polish).
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Js complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to pay Mrs J £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman