DRN-2445649
The complaint
Mr F complains that Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited wrongly cancelled his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F bought a policy underwritten by Aioi in July 2019. In November 2019 his car was 
written-off after an accident. Aioi noted that the address on the policy (address A) was 
different to the address where the telematics black box recorder in Mr Fs car showed that it 
was kept (address B). On 14 November 2019 Aioi asked Mr F to explain the situation and to 
provide documents, such as his driving licence. The same day, Mr F called Aioi to say the 
car was kept at both addresses regularly. He explained why and submitted the documents. 
Aioi then asked Mr F to call, or to go on live chat, as it had decided he needed to update the 
policy address to address B. It sent him an email, a text and a letter on 28 November 2019 
giving him seven days to do that. As Mr F didnt respond, Aioi cancelled the policy (in line 
with the deadline given in its messages) on 5 December 2019. Mr F called Aioi a week later 
to say hed just received the letter asking him to call it, but he hadnt got the email or the text. 
He thought the cancellation was unfair, as he believed the issue with the address was being 
dealt with by Aioi after the call on 14 November 2019. Aioi didnt uphold his complaint. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Fs complaint and concluded that Aioi had acted 
reasonably. He said given the black box data, it was fair for it to decide that address B was 
where the car was mainly kept, rather than the address Mr F had provided, so Aioi had to 
decide what to do about that. In his opinion, it could have cancelled the policy without giving 
Mr F a chance to update the address details. So he thought it had acted reasonably by trying 
to contact Mr F by various means to allow him to do that. 
Mr F said Aioi had cancelled the policy on the basis of not having written confirmation of a 
change of address, which he didnt think was fair. He said as the car was a total loss, the 
policy was due to be cancelled imminently anyway, so Aioi had carried out a tick-box 
exercise which caused him financial hardship. Mr F said it hadnt considered that he was a 
young driver who had simply made a mistake that resulted in a severe penalty for him. He 
thought Aioi should have made another attempt to contact him.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call between Mr F and the advisor that took place on 14 November 2019. 
I dont think she gave any indication that he wouldnt have to do anything further as long as 
he provided the requested documents. Aioi has explained that the advisor wasnt in a 
position to know what would happen next, as Aioi was yet to decide that, so she couldnt tell 
Mr F what the next steps would be. 
I think it was fair for Aioi to want to consider the explanation Mr F had given (and to check 
that all the other details hed given it were correct) before deciding whether to cancel the 
policy. Consumers must give insurers the right information from the start, so I think its 
irrelevant that Mr Fs policy was about to end. The policy says changes to the details a policy 
holder has provided initially must be notified to it as soon as possible - otherwise any claim 
made may be affected and the insurance may be invalid. The address where a car is kept 
overnight is one of the major factors insurers use in assessing risk and deciding what 
premium to charge. So being given the wrong address can give an insurer the right to treat a 
policy as though it never existed, by avoiding it altogether and not dealing with a claim. 
 
By the time Aioi realised there was a problem with the address, Mr F had already been 
covered by the policy for almost six months, but Aioi decided that it would allow him to 
update the policy with address B. As the details it held for Mr F were inaccurate, I dont think 
it was required to do that - but an extra premium would have been payable for amending the 
policy to show address B as the place the car was mainly kept. Although Mr F wasnt made 
aware of the extra charge when Aioi asked him to call or go onto live chat, it wouldnt have 
been able to make the change without his agreement. Up to that point, all Mr F had done 
was to advise Aioi why the car was kept at two addresses, but he still hadnt committed to 
either of them as the main address. 
In this situation, it was essential for Mr F to contact Aioi by the date it set out in the email, 
text and letter sent to him on 28 November 2019, so its very unfortunate that he didnt do so. 
The letter arrived late, which sometimes happens, but Mr F cant explain why he didnt get 
the text or the email. Aioi can show they were sent - and that nothing was returned to it as 
undelivered. We take the view that if an insurer can show a communication was sent, it cant 
be blamed if a policy holder didnt receive it or didnt see it. 
Mr F says he was inundated with messages from a range of businesses at the time - all as a 
result of the accident -  which I think is common and can be distracting and confusing. He 
was also feeling under par, given the injuries hed sustained. I dont think Mr F would have 
ignored a message from Aioi, given his prompt response to its earlier email message. But I 
think its possible he may simply have missed or deleted a text or email in error.  
Mr F now faces severe financial penalties as a result of the cancellation. I understand his 
frustration, and I sympathise with him, given the situation hes found himself in. But as I dont 
think theres anything to show that Aioi did anything wrong, I cant uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 
16 June 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman