DRN-4172810
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds (RSA) settlement of his claim 
and the length of time it took to receive payment. 
What happened
Mr R claimed on his home insurance policy following an escape of water in his home. He 
was unhappy with the settlement figure. He complained to RSA. 
RSA issued two final response letters. They explained theyd adjusted the value of Mr Rs 
contents cover following discussions with his broker about him being underinsured. They 
also apologised and offered £75 for delay and service failings Mr R experienced. Unhappy 
with the response Mr R complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Rs complaint and recommended the compensation was 
increased to £300. She also thought RSA should recalculate the claim settlement as Mr Rs 
costs had increased due to the delay in the claim being settled. 
RSA asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. They said Mr R had several 
opportunities to complete a document (the VAR) which assessed the value of the contents 
and this had caused delays. They also said that Mr R hadnt mentioned that the situation 
was impacting his childs health to the loss adjuster which was why it hadnt been prioritised. 
So, I need to make a decision.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say RSA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. 
Im upholding Mr Rs complaint because: 
I think it was reasonable for RSA to apply an adjustment to the settlement due to 
underinsurance. The loss adjuster valued the contents at a higher value than Mr R. 
Mr R ultimately accepted that figure and it seems a reasonable figure based on the 
available evidence. RSAs actions are also in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. 
RSA has attributed some of the delay to Mr R not filling out the VAR. Thats not 
reflected in the claims handling notes. Its also not recorded in the loss adjusters 
report. If there was a significant delay caused by Mr R not providing information, then 
Id have expected RSA to have clearly explained that to him. Id also expect to see 
that clearly documented in the claims handling notes. 
Mr R made RSA aware that his son had to go to hospital and that this had been 
linked by the doctor to the ongoing damp in the property. It was for RSA to ensure 
that this information was passed on to the relevant parties. I dont think its 
reasonable to expect Mr R to have to relay that information to the various other 
parties involved.
I think there were avoidable delays in progressing the claim, in part because there 
wasnt clear communication with Mr R. I think that if there had been clearer 
communication its most likely the claim would have progressed more quickly. 
As a result of the delays Mr Rs repair costs went up because the price of various 
items had increased. I dont think its fair that Mr R has to cover those additional 
costs. So, I think its fair and reasonable for RSA to recalculate the settlement to 
reflect the updated invoices. 
I think £300 more fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr R by 
delays and poor service. That includes poor service such as delays in progressing 
the claim, not passing on important information to the loss adjusters and not 
explaining to Mr R what he needed to do to move the claim forward.     
Putting things right
Im directing RSA to put things right by: 
Recalculating the claim settlement, taking into account the updated invoices and 
paying Mr R the difference. RSA are entitled to re-calculate the underinsurance 
amount and deduct this from any further settlement made. 
Paying Mr R a total of £300 (inclusive of the £75 originally offered) to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the distress and inconvenience of poor 
customer service and delays which led to it taking longer for the repairs to be 
completed than was necessary.  
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Rs complaint in part and direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to 
put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman