DRN-3206493
The complaint
Ms K complains about AXA Insurance UK PLC (AXA), who declined her claim under her 
home insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms K returned to her holiday home to find that the ceiling and other damage had occurred. 
She believed that the damage had been caused by a storm, as there had been a few days of 
bad weather. She instructed a contractor to carry out a temporary repair of the roof to 
prevent further damage. And later contacted AXA to make a claim. 
AXA sent a surveyor who wrote a report detailing the internal damage caused, which 
confirmed extensive damage to ceilings, water damage and flooring damage. The report 
concluded that damage was from a roof leak, but a full inspection was required to ascertain 
the cause of the damage. This surveyor didnt inspect the roof. 
Because of this, AXA sent another surveyor. That surveyor wrote a report that concluded 
that there was no evidence of any external storm damage. Several defects and possible 
points of ingress were noted, none of these were caused by a single incident. This 
recommended that the claim be declined. 
Ms K complained to AXA. As she said that there had been storms over a few days in March 
2021 and this wouldve caused the damage. She said that she always maintained her roof 
and it wasnt in disrepair. Also, the surveyor didnt inspect the area of roof that the damage 
had occurred in. The surveyor said that he couldnt find any storm damage, but this is 
because a temporary repair had been carried out to the roof a few months earlier. 
In its final response, AXA said as there were no signs of storm damage and the bad weather 
had merely highlighted wear and tear, the claim remained declined. But AXA accepted that 
there had been poor customer service and it offered £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused.  Ms K was given her referral rights, so she referred a complaint to 
our service. 
One of our investigators considered her complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that the second surveyors report advised that the storm conditions would have 
highlighted existing damage, and not caused it. Although our investigator accepted there had 
been storm conditions present, he concluded that the damage had happened over time. And 
AXA werent unreasonable in declining her claim.
AXA accepted the view, Ms K did not. Ms K said that the damage was to the rear of the roof, 
which the surveyor didnt look at. The reasons why there was no damage seen, such as, 
displaced roof tiles, is that they had been repaired well before the surveyor had attended.  
There had been storms and the surveyors report was incorrect. So, she asked for a decision 
from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Ms K, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
In assessing the evidence, I must establish whether there were prevailing storm conditions 
at the time of the claim. If I am not satisfied there were, I must decide if RSA ought to have 
considered the claim under any other section of the policy.  
There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether an event 
can be classed as a storm. These are: 
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage? 
If any of the answers to the above questions are no, then an insurer can reasonably decline a claim. 
AXA determined that the event did not amount to a storm. And the policy defined a storm as: 
Storm - A period of violent weather with wind speeds of at least 55mph, or rainfall of at least 
25mm per hour, or snowfall of at least 30cm in 24 hours, or hail of such intensity that it 
damages hard surfaces or breaks glass. 
Ms K initially told AXA that she had been at her home in April and left it with everything ok. 
She returned in June and found damage to her ceilings, flooring and water ingress. She said 
that there had been storms in mid-May and that she had carried out a temporary repair to 
the roof. 
From the evidence, I can see that AXA obtained weather information for various dates in 
early, mid and towards the end of May. Those weather reports confirmed that the wind 
wasnt strong enough, nor was there heavy rain, hail or snow.
I have considered the local weather reports for May, which are usually the best evidence I 
can rely on to check whether there were prevailing storm conditions. These show that there 
were strong winds, but they were not strong enough to meet the policy requirements. In 
addition, there was a little rain but no hail or snow.  Looking at the reports, I cant be satisfied 
that a storm was present at the time of the event.
But Ms K said that she believed that the damage to the roof had occurred over a few days in 
March. I have considered the weather reports over a few days in March. The days that Ms K 
mentioned, were 10 and 11 March. On the 10 March the reports show the wind was strong 
but not strong enough to meet the policy requirements. Although, the wind strength on 11 
March did meet the requirements. 
Nevertheless, Ms K said that she had previously been at the house in April. But Ms K 
provided no evidence that there was any internal damage seen at this time. And I think, it 
would be more likely than not, that the damage (had it occurred in March) would be noticed 
in April. I have also considered the reports from the surveyors who attended. The first surveyor 
outlined the damage that had been caused. But his conclusion was: The full cause of the 
damage is from a roof leak, but a full inspection is required to ascertain the cause of 
damage. So, in this report, I think he hadnt concluded that the cause of damage was a 
storm.
The second surveyor reported that the overall condition of the roof wasnt in a good state of 
repair. The evidence suggests that there had been patch repairs, water ingress, showing 
both long-term and pre-existing damage. The report concluded that the damage that had 
occurred wasnt due to a one-off incident and that there was no evidence of storm damage. 
And that the storm merely highlighted existing damage. 
I understand that Ms K said that the second surveyors report is incorrect, as it said that 
there had been no sign of storm damage and there were patch repairs noted. Ms K also said 
that she believed the report focused on the front of the roof and not the back where the 
damage had been. But I dont agree, and Ill explain why. 
The report confirms that the inspection took place from the front elevation. But the roof itself 
was inspected with the aid of a pole camera, that took photographs and a video of the roof. 
Although it stated that no tile displacement had been seen, it goes on to explain how water 
ingress into the property wouldve occurred. And comments that there was evidence of pre-
existing, long term damage. 
Although, I understand that Ms K said that a temporary repair had been carried out so it 
would be unlikely that the surveyor wouldve seen any tile displacement, I dont think this 
takes into account the other issues the surveyor identified with the roof. 
When investigating complaints such as this, I can only assess the circumstances of the 
complaint based on the evidence presented by both parties. Ms K was asked to provide any 
evidence from an expert that could refute the surveyors reports that AXA relied upon to 
decline her claim. This wasnt provided. Accordingly, the only expert evidence I have is from 
the surveyors who didnt conclude that the cause of damage was due to a storm. 
Consequently, the answer to the first question is no. As a result, I think that it was 
reasonable for AXA to decline the claim, based on no storm being present.
I have next considered whether there were any terms contained within Ms Ks policy that 
AXA couldve applied such as accidental damage, to the claim. Having reviewed the policy 
schedule, I can see that Ms K had cover that included accidental damage. But the definition 
in the policy of what accidental damage is and covers is: Sudden, unexpected and 
unforeseen event that causes visible damage. Cover is only provided where You or Your 
guests cause the damage, unless We explicitly state otherwise.
In this complaint, I cant see any evidence of any damage having been caused by Ms K or 
any guests. Subsequently, I cant reasonably direct AXA to accept the claim under the 
accidental damage term of the policy. 
Overall, I think AXA has dealt with Ms K claim fairly. Im not satisfied that there were storm 
conditions at the time of the event and any damage caused was as a result of gradual wear 
and tear. 
Im satisfied that AXA recognised the poor level of customer service provided and offered Ms 
K £100 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused, which I think is fair. I understand 
that this wouldnt be the outcome that Ms K wouldve liked, but in the circumstances, I cant 
reasonably ask AXA to do anything further to resolve this complaint.My final decision
AXA Insurance UK PLC has already made an offer to pay £100 for the trouble and upset it 
caused and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. I direct AXA Insurance UK PLC 
to pay £100 (If it hasnt already done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman