DRN-4300777
The complaint
Mr G complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) cancelled his 
policy without telling him. Mr G is represented in this complaint, but for ease Ill refer to him 
throughout.
What happened
Mr G had a car insurance policy with Advantage. The policy required the fitment and use of a 
telematics device (known as a black box) and an associated app.
The device was fitted to Mr Gs car and was apparently used normally from April 2022.
Mr G was stopped by the police in early March 2023 when they noticed his car wasnt 
insured. His car was impounded, he was fined and his licence endorsed.
He searched his email and found two unread emails in his junk folder both saying that his 
black box wasnt sending data to Advantage. The second of those told him that his policy 
would be cancelled.
Shortly after, letters confirming that the policy had been cancelled arrived for both Mr G and 
another named driver on the policy.
Mr G complained. He asks that Advantage contribute towards his fine, the costs of getting 
the car released from the compound and future costs. He asks that the policy is reinstated.
Advantage didnt think itd done anything wrong. It had used email to contact Mr G and said 
he would have had warnings if hed been logged into the devices app. It did say that a text 
message system was out of use at the time this occurred. Advantage did agree that one of 
its complaint handlers had used an inappropriate tone with Mr Gs representative and it paid 
£50 compensation for this.
Mr G remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into it and thought it wouldnt be upheld. She thought Advantage had reasonably tried to get 
in contact with Mr G.
Mr G didnt agree with the view and asked that his complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has written to this service about the hardships hes faced, and continues to face, due to 
the cancellation of his insurance policy. I can understand his frustration about the 
cancellation and the shock of what happened.
Ive said above that the policy he bought is one that requires the use of a black box device. 
In various parts of the policy terms and conditions it says:
You will need to ensure that you use the app and your [device] on every drive. If you 
share insufficient driving data with us during your period of cover, it may be 
cancelled, so its important to ensure your trips are recorded accurately.
Its a condition of your policy to share your driving data with us through the [app] and 
[device]
Mr G had bought a telematics policy and its normal that these policies have a requirement to 
provide data to an insurer. This information is also included in the Welcome letter.
Advantage says it uses the black box and app to allow it to charge more competitive 
premiums. If a policyholder doesnt use them then it can cancel the policy:
We and your insurer can cancel your policy at any time by sending you seven days 
written notice to the last postal or email address on our system, stating why the policy 
has been cancelled.
We can only do this for one of the following reasons:
You share an insufficient amount of driving data with us during your policy, we 
do not receive any driving data for more than 28 days, or a signicant 
proportion of your driving data is captured without you using the app.
Mr G set up and used the app from April to September 2022. But then he stopped sending 
data to Advantage. 
Advantage later said it didnt check with Mr G earlier about this because it was happy with 
Mr Gs driving record at that point. It said Mr G effectively had the benefit of a policy from 
September to February without it monitoring his driving performance. 
Mr G corresponded in some depth with Advantage and this service about the events and 
conversations after the cancellation had happened. He was involved in some detailed phone 
calls with Advantage about what had happened. He has given Advantage very good 
feedback about its processes, policy wording and complaints procedures.
Ive looked at the policy wording and I think its clear Mr Gs policy was one that required him 
to use the black box device and the app. If he didnt do this, Advantage were allowed to 
cancel his policy under its terms and conditions. 
We think its good industry practice for Advantage to use the means of communication that 
reflects their customers communication preference to warn them about the cancellation and 
to confirm the policy has been cancelled. 
If they dont have a communication preference, it would be appropriate for the insurer to use 
the same means of communication as they have used previously with the customer. 
However, owing to the implications of having a policy cancelled and the risk of not receiving 
the cancellation letter, we also think its good industry practice for an insurer to use two 
means of communication.
Advantage did this by communicating to Mr G by email and through the app. I know Mr G 
was apparently logged out of the app when Advantage contacted him, but as its a 
requirement of the policy to use the app I also think its fair Advantage tried to use that method to reach him. 
Mr G has said Advantage should have used other methods of contact him. But, while this 
may be good customer service, I think it was reasonable for Advantage to rely on Mr Gs 
established contact preference.
So I think Advantages actions were fair and in line with the terms of its policy and it 
reasonably tried to contact him to tell him about the problems it was having with his device 
and app, and that it was going to cancel his policy.
I understand Mr G didnt realise the significance of the communications he was getting from 
Advantage and this had significant consequences on him. However, for the reasons stated 
above, I dont think Advantage acted unreasonably when it cancelled his policy.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman