DRN-1820497
The complaint
Mr A and Ms A complain that Metro Bank PLC has not treated them fairly in that it applied an 
early repayment charge (ERC) to their commercial loan, when it had previously said it would 
waive that requirement.
What happened
Mr A and Ms A took out this commercial loan in early 2018.
In late 2018 Mr A and Ms A approached Metro Bank for some financing for another project 
they were looking to undertake. Conversations continued into the new year and still hadnt 
reached the point that a formal proposal was put forward when Metro Bank decided it wasnt 
in a position to proceed with it (for reasons unconnected to Mr A and Ms A).
When Metro Bank told Mr A and Ms A that it couldnt take the proposal forward due to 
external factors, it offered to waive the ERC on the existing loan as it understood theyd be 
seeking the finance they wanted elsewhere and it would need to be secured on the property. 
By offering to waive the ERC Metro Bank was trying to help Mr A and Ms A refinance entirely 
and raise the extra money at the same time.
Mr A and Ms A were late making their loan payment in May 2019, and although that was a 
breach of the terms of the agreement, Metro Bank allowed things to continue as normal.
Nothing further happened until in August 2019 Metro Bank carried out its annual review on 
the loan and asked Mr A and Ms A for the information it needed for that. At that time Mr A 
and Ms A confirmed that the other project had been deferred and they wanted to continue 
with the Metro loan. Some of the information was provided, but not all. And what was 
provided caused concern to Metro Bank. Due to this it issued a letter on 30 August 2019.
Further information came in but Metro Bank still had concerns, and some information was 
still outstanding so a further letter was sent on 1 October 2019.
Mr A emailed Metro Bank on 2 October saying that he and Ms A would be paying off all the 
money that was outstanding. A redemption statement was issued on 11 October, for 
repayment on 16 October. When Mr A and Ms A received that they contacted Metro Bank as 
they were unhappy the ERC of just under £2,500 was included in the redemption figure, 
saying their relationship manager had gone back on his word. 
As things couldnt be resolved between Mr A and Ms A and their relationship manager, a 
formal complaint was raised. Metro Bank rejected the complaint, saying the offer to waive 
the ERC in early 2019 was when the loan was operating normally, since then Mr A and Ms A 
had breached the agreement and so it had said it would be calling in the loan.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr A and Ms A 
didnt agree and so its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The offer made by Metro Bank in February / March 2019 was in relation to a very specific set 
of circumstances. At that time Mr A and Ms A wanted to raise funds for another project. 
Metro Bank offered to waive the ERC to allow Mr A and Ms A to refinance elsewhere to 
achieve that aim. One of the emails from Metro Bank about it says
I am well aware that you would be missing out on alternative lending possibilities 
should you maintain our loan of £183k secured against a property that was valued 
18 months ago at £980,000. Having spoken to both yourself and [adviser name] from [a 
firm of independent financial advisers that Mr A and Ms A used] I am therefore not 
surprised that you will be seeking to refinance the current loan, and I would not expect 
you to have to much difficulty in raising a loan of c£600k secured against [the property].
 I suggest you and [Mr A and Ms As adviser] seek an alternative loan at the earliest 
opportunity which will allow you to proceed with [the project]. I am pleased at the very 
least that I have been able to secure authority for the Early Repayment Charge to be 
waived as advised yesterday.
I have every confident that [the project] will be a success and I am only sorry that 
MetroBank cannot be a part of this.
I think it is clear from this that the offer to waive the ERC is directly linked to Mr A and Ms A 
refinancing the loan (with additional capital) to allow them to proceed with the project even 
though Metro Bank was unable to finance it. As Mr A and Ms A didnt proceed with the 
refinancing then I think its only fair that the generous concession offered by Metro Bank fell 
away.
The reason the loan was repaid in the end was because Mr A and Ms A breached various 
parts of the contract. Metro Bank sent a letter to Mr A and Ms A on 30 August 2019 which 
said:
Our concerns are (but are not limited to) the following:
1) You have failed to provide copies of the latest Rent Schedules relating to the 
Property, and also the latest available tax return for [Mr A] despite repeated requests, 
and also despite these items being specifically listed as ongoing requirements within 
the facility letter.
2) You have failed to respond to a reasonable request regarding the level of dividends 
paid out by the company in the 12 months to 31 July 2018.
3) There is an ongoing disparity between the level of Rental Income specified as having 
been received by the company within the audited accounts (£62,000 pa) and that 
originally advised to the bank when we were assessing the original loan (£84,000 
pa).
4) You are not consistently ensuring that sufficient funds are held in your current 
account with which to meet the regular loan payment, currently £1,167.46 due 21st 
monthly.
The letter went on to say the outstanding information must be provided by 13 September 
2019 and said Metro Bank reserved the right to exercise the power to appoint a receiver 
over the property and the power of sale.
As not all the information was forthcoming, and what was received raised further concerns, 
Metro Bank sent a follow up letter on 1 October 2019. That said:Our concerns remain (but are not restricted to) as follows:
1. You have not clarified the position as to why the annual account of [Mr A and Ms As 
business] are consistently only reflecting rental income of £62,000 pa whereas you 
originally provided copy leases to the bank confirming the total rental income from 
the 3 tenants was £84,000 pa. Our assessment of the original loan facility was based 
in good faith upon this higher figure.
2. Furthermore, you have failed to provide the requested clarification surrounding the 
formal application of this rental income. With all 3 leases naming the Landlord as [Mr 
A] personally, it is our understanding that this income should be declared within the 
relevant personal tax return as opposed to being declared as Other Income within 
the annual accounts of [Mr A and Ms As business].
3. Upon being advised that the dividends received from [Mr A and Ms As business] in 
the year ending 31 July 2018 were £57,398, I can formally confirm that the Debt 
Service Covenant has been breached. This has occurred despite the debt having 
been significantly reduced from its original level of £600k.
The letter went on to confirm that Metro Bank was already within its rights to issue a formal 
demand for immediate repayment, and that if the debt wasnt repaid then it would most likely 
appoint LPA Receivers who would be tasked with selling the property. It said, 
notwithstanding that, it would allow Mr A and Ms A four months to voluntarily repay all their 
borrowings with Metro Bank so long as a written update was provided by 15 November 2019 
(with evidence) of how the debt would be repaid, and thereafter further written updates every 
two weeks regarding the progress. It said that if a response wasnt received by 18 October 
2019 that Mr A and Ms A had read and understood the letter then the offer to allow them to 
voluntarily repay the debt would immediately cease. 
The debt was repaid by Mr A and Ms A that month. This wasnt a matter of Any default with 
my loan agreement were purely administrative and due to some outstanding documents 
as Mr A and Ms A have claimed. Mr A and Ms A had breached several terms of their 
agreement, and it can be seen from those letters that Metro Bank had some serious 
concerns about the running of Mr A and Ms As business.
Its clear from those letters that the situation had changed significantly from that in February / 
March 2019. Back then Metro Bank was willing to waive the ERC to assist Mr A and Ms A in 
progressing their project. That was a very generous concession and not one it had to make.
Having considered everything, it would be highly inequitable of me to say that Metro Bank 
should still have offered that concession in October 2019 when, by then, Mr A and Ms A had 
breached the terms of their loan agreement and Metro Bank was formally calling in the debt. 
And even then, it still offered a very generous concession of four months to allow Mr A and 
Ms A to repay the debt voluntarily, rather than simply proceeding straight to the appointment 
of Receivers which it was entitled to do. 
For all the reasons given, I dont consider the calling in of the debt was the result of an error 
by Metro Bank. Im also satisfied that the earlier offer to waive the ERC related to a specific 
set of circumstances, which werent applicable when this debt was repaid. Because of this, I 
consider that the ERC was fairly due on the repayment of the debt.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint . Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr A and Ms A to accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2021. 
Julia MeadowsOmbudsman