DRN-4119237
The complaint
Mr M complains about Haven Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his car insurance 
claim.
All references to Haven also include its appointed agents.
What happened
Im aware a separate complaint has been brought by Mr M regarding the actions of the 
broker of the policy. However, my decision focusses solely on matters relating to Haven. So, 
I will only refer to the broker here for the purpose of delivering my decision on this complaint.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr M has said he told the broker he wasnt working at the time the policy renewed, 
which is why he couldnt send a valid badge or licence.
However, the information provided to Haven was that Mr M was trading as a Taxi 
Driver. So, it wasnt an accurate representation of the risk.
Haven has provided our service with its underwriting criteria. This is commercially 
sensitive, so I wont discuss its contents, however I can confirm that from reviewing 
the information available it wouldnt have provided cover to Mr M had it been given 
accurate information.
Under the Insurance Act 2015, it would be said that a qualifying breach occurred.
Haven have classed the misrepresentation as careless, which means an available 
remedy would have been to avoid the policy, refuse all claims and return Mr Ms 
premiums paid. 
However, this isnt what happened. Haven instead chose to cancel the policy, giving 
notice to Mr M that his policy would end in October 2022.
As a result, the policy has been validated from the date it started to the cancellation 
date provided by Haven. And so, a contract of insurance was in place until that date. 
Mr Ms claim was made in September 2022. And therefore, he would have still been 
on cover at the time.
Haven have pointed to a term in its policy that says it can refuse a claim in the event 
of a misrepresentation. The relevant act, as explained above, sets out what an 
Insurer can do in the event a consumer doesnt make a fair presentation of the risk. 
Haven chose not to do this, and I dont think its reasonable for it to rely on a term in 
the policy contrary to what is set out in relevant legislation. 
By notifying Mr M it would continue with cover until October 2022, Haven prejudiced 
his position to seek alternative insurance to cover the relevant peril. 
So, considering everything Ive set out above, I dont think its fair for Haven to rely on 
this to decline the claim and it should now proceed to reconsider the claim using the 
remaining terms of the policy.
So, for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right Haven Insurance Company Limited should reconsider the claim under the 
remaining terms of the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint.
To put things right I direct Haven Insurance Company Limited to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman