Mr M is unhappy that The Prudential Assurance Company Limiteds review of his annuity 
found he wasnt due any redress.
Background
In December 2008 Mr M called Prudential after receiving a letter. He enquired about this 
plan as he wasnt sure what policy the letter had referred to. The call handler explained a bit 
about the pension policy and where the contributions had come from. She also said that on 6 
April 2010 the age at which he could take his benefits was changing from 50 to 55. Mr M 
was 51 at the time. 
Mr M asked the call handler to send out a quotation with all his options. And she agreed to 
do that and she also confirmed with Mr M whether or not he was married, so that she could 
send the quotations on the correct basis. Mr M confirmed he was single and the call ended.
Prudential says it then sent Mr M a retirement pack which alongside the quotations, included 
a Key Features Document that set out all the information about his options and his policy.
Mr M returned his completed forms (evidence provided) to take an annuity with Prudential on 
9 January 2009. And his first payment was received on 30 January 2009.
More recently Prudential wrote to Mr M to say that was looking at his annuity sale as part of 
an industry review carried out for non-advised sales of annuities. The purpose of this review 
was to look at whether customers had been given adequate information about their choices 
at the time. The review looked at whether firms in non-advised sales had made customers 
aware of enhanced annuities and also that customers could potentially get a higher income 
from an enhanced annuity from another provider.
Prudential sent Mr M a questionnaire to get his recollections of the sale. Mr M called 
Prudential and confirmed hed made his choices based on the documentation hed received 
at the time of taking the annuity. Following this Prudential wrote to Mr M to say it had found 
that it had provided enough information for Mr M to make an informed choice about his 
annuity. And the outcome of the review was that there was no action needed.
Mr M was unhappy with this and raised a complaint.
Prudential looked into it and explained in more detail why it had reached that outcome. It 
said that it had complied with the terms of the review it was asked to carry out by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). It said Mr M had confirmed that he had relied on the 
documentation he had received when making his choices. And Prudential confirmed that the 
FCA had determined that its standard retirement packs were compliant and contained 
enough information about the enhanced annuity option.
Prudential said that its Key Features Document and references elsewhere in its retirement 
pack made Mr M aware of the enhanced annuity options. 
DRN-1615484It also confirmed that his postcode had been factored into its annuity calculations. Mr M had 
raised the point that the area he lived in had a lower life expectancy than much of the 
country. However, it did uphold Mr Ms complaint about the time taken in dealing with his 
complaint and it paid Mr M £75 in recognition of this.
Mr M contacted this service as he remained unhappy with the result of the review. Mr M told 
us that he didnt remember getting the Key Features Document and wasnt aware of the 
option of an enhanced annuity. This wouldve been relevant to him as he had qualifying 
medical conditions at the time. Mr M felt that in the call he had with Prudential prior to taking 
out his benefits with them, they ought to have made him aware of enhanced annuities then.
Our investigator looked into the case but he didnt recommend that it be upheld. His view 
was that Prudential had given Mr M enough information about the enhanced annuities in the 
retirement pack to make an informed choice. The investigator said to Mr M that whilst 
Prudential couldnt provide cast iron proof the Key Features Document had been 
specifically sent to Mr M, the evidence supported that on the balance of probabilities Mr M 
wouldve received it. And he agreed with Prudential that the telephone call was just a 
request for a quotation rather than a time where his annuity options should have been 
discussed.
Mr M remained unhappy with this; he said in response to the investigators view that he had 
no recollection at all of receiving the Key Features Document. And that the word likely has 
been used about him receiving it. He stated it should be for the business to prove without a 
shadow of doubt that it did send it to him.
He also said that he found it strange that Prudential had a recording of call from 2008 but 
couldn't provide a copy of the documentation that it sent him when he took his annuity.
In relation to the telephone call Mr M said that surely the fact that someone was considering 
accessing their pension, meant that the call handler shouldve provided all the information 
then to make sure the customer had fully understood their options. Or at least called back to 
check that hed understood his options after receiving his completed annuity forms. 
Especially as in this instance, Mr M had contacted Prudential because he hadnt quite 
understood why he had been contacted in the first place.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issues for me to decide is whether Mr M received enough information from Prudential to 
make an informed choice about his options. Whether Prudential shouldve told Mr M about 
the enhanced annuity options in its telephone call with him prior to sending him his 
retirement options. And more widely has Prudential carried out its review of Mr Ms annuity 
sale fairly and in accordance with the instructions given by the regulator. 
Mr M has argued that Prudential ought to be able to provide absolute proof that it sent him 
the Key Features Document. He has no recollection of receiving it. However, businesses 
arent required to keep information indefinitely. And at this service where evidence is 
incomplete, we work on the balance of probabilities or what most likely happened. 
This happened in 2008, and I dont think its unusual that Prudential wouldnt have a copy of 
all the documentation that it sent to Mr M at this point. The retirement packs that businesses 
such as Prudential sent in the time period in question were fairly standardised. Included 
within are documents specific to the individual customer such as the quotation with the options set out but also readymade standardised documents such as the Key Features 
Document, that whilst likely specific to the product are not specific to the customer. These 
would all be printed off its systems and added to a pack to be sent to the customer.
Following a telephone call with a Prudential member of staff in December 2008, Prudential 
said it would send Mr M a retirement pack outlining his options. We know Mr M received 
documentation following this call because he sent back the forms to take his annuity. The 
forms returned by Mr M do make reference to other supplementary documentation being 
included. And it required him to sign to say he was in possession of a cancellation form 
which Mr M did do so. 
So we know that Mr M received from Prudential all the appropriate forms to take out his 
annuity, including the accompanying cancellation form which are all part of the retirement 
pack. And we know that part of Prudentials normal processes at the time was to include the 
Key Features Document within this retirement pack but that this did not need to be 
returned. So whilst I accept its a possibility Mr M didnt receive the Key Features 
Document, on the balance of probabilities the evidence suggests he likely wouldve done so. 
For Mr M not to receive the Key Features Document something wouldve had to gone 
wrong when Prudential prepared his retirement pack. And this wouldve been a very 
common process with procedures put in place to make sure all the correct documentation 
was sent. We can see from the documentation Mr M returned that he received all the 
standard forms as part of the pack that needed to be sent back. And so I think its likely he 
also received the other supplementary documentation (including the Key Features 
Document) alongside the quotation.
Prudential says it has carried out its review in line with the guidelines given by the FCA. Its 
also said that its standard documentation (retirement pack and Key Features Document) 
has been deemed complaint by the FCA. Having looked at the review guidelines and the 
final notice which explained Prudentials failings, Im satisfied that Prudential has met the 
standard required in terms of the written documentation sent to Mr M. I think it did send Mr M 
its retirement pack which included the Key Features Document that had a number of 
sections where the enhanced annuity option was discussed. So I think Prudential provided 
Mr M with sufficient written information about his options including the enhanced annuity.
However, the review guidelines also require firms to have adequately outlined customers 
options verbally if a conversation about this occurred.
Mr M has argued that the call handler shouldve made him aware of all his options when he 
called up to ask about the letter hed received. Mr M says at the time it wouldve been clear 
to the call-handler that he didnt quite understand the policy and the letter hed received. And 
if not the Prudential shouldve checked with him after he sent his annuity choices.
In the FCA reviews overall conclusions it says:
The majority of our concerns arising from the review published here relate to significant oral 
communications (usually in the form of a telephone conversation) in which firms discussed 
with customers their annuity options, but did not mention enhanced annuities or the 
customers option to shop around on the open market for a higher income 
The review says that in significant oral communications firms shouldve made customers 
aware of their options and specifically the enhanced annuity options available. 
In Mr Ms call there was no conversation about his annuity options. Mr M makes reference to 
a letter hed received about his policy (presumably about the change in retirement age 
coming up) and was unsure about the origins of this policy. The call handler briefly explained where this money had come from and said the retirement age was due to go up shortly from 
50 to 55. Mr M then asked to be sent his options and the call handler agreed to do so.  
In the situation of the call I think it wouldve been unusual for the call-handler to then enter 
into an unprompted discussion of Mr Ms options.  The call-handler wouldve known that 
shortly after Mr M would receive written documentation with the options outlined. 
I dont think this qualifies as a significant communication as outlined in the review guidelines. 
The call wasnt a call about discussing Mr Ms annuity options, it was a call about a letter 
hed received and to find out more about where the policy had come from.
There is no requirement or expectation on a business in a non-advised sale to double check 
a customers understanding after the benefit selection has been made. The documentation 
received as part of the retirement pack set out all the options available.
In conclusion I think Prudential has fairly reviewed Mr Ms annuity sale. So, I dont think it 
needs to do anymore. I know that Mr M will be disappointed with my decision but for the 
reasons explained I dont think Prudential has done anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask to accept or reject 
my decision before date.
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman