DRN-2783248
The complaint
Mr D complains that Santander UK Plc gave him incorrect information about his car 
insurance payment and, as a result, he thought he was insured. Mr D was later stopped and 
charged with driving without insurance. Hed now like to be compensated for the costs 
related to this and for his upset and inconvenience.
What happened
This complaint is brought by Ms W on Mr Ds behalf but for clarity, Ill refer to Mr D 
throughout. 
On 9 March 2019 Mr D tried to buy car insurance online. He tried three times to make 
payment but they all failed. After the third attempt he received a text from Santander asking 
him to confirm that the payment was valid. Mr D responded to the text confirming it was. 
Shortly after he contacted Santander to ask why the payments had failed and to try to 
arrange payment. In this call Mr D was told the payments had triggered a security alert, 
which was why hed been sent the text, but having checked the system the call handler 
could see the payment had now been authorised and had gone through.
At this point Mr D assumed his insurance was now arranged. But later that day while driving 
his car, he was stopped by the police and told that he didnt have insurance. Mr Ds car was 
impounded and he was charged and had to go to court. The court accepted Mr Ds 
submission that hed always intended to take out insurance and that he believed that the 
payment had gone through and that he was therefore insured. It gave him an absolute 
discharge. 
However, Mr D says hes been left out of pocket. He feels Santander was responsible for 
what happened and that it should compensate him for the costs and inconvenience hed 
incurred as a result. Mr D has calculated his losses and compensation to be £1,630 made up 
as follows;
loss of 3 days work  £360
cost of releasing Mr Ds car from the police compound £230
cost of obtaining special insurance to cover the release £340
admin costs the court hearing £100
costs for the loss of use of the funds (£570)  £100
loss of use of car £100
distress and inconvenience £400
Mr D said Santander had initially denied making a mistake but it had then written to him on 
12 August confirming that, despite the payment being authorised, it hadnt gone through due 
to a systems error by Santander. He says this shows Santander was responsible for what 
had happened and its only fair that it compensates him for the costs and inconvenience hed 
had.
Santander disagreed. It said Mr D had made three attempts at payment on 9 March, all of 
which had been approved but then rejected immediately. It thought this was because the 
billing address on the payment was different to the address it held for Mr D. As a result, this 
had triggered the fraud alert and the text to Mr D. But once Mr D had replied to confirm the 
transaction was genuine, the payment had been authorised. Santander said it had approved 
payment but there was no record of the insurance company requesting payment. It felt this 
was supported by the fact that the insurance company had no record of any attempts at 
payment on 9 March even though this was confirmed by Santanders own internal records.
Santander said it couldnt explain the letter of 12 August as its investigations hadnt shown 
any errors with the processing of this payment but in any event, it felt Mr D could only have 
been sure that his insurance was in place when he received confirmation from the insurance 
company. For that reason, it didnt accept it was responsible for the fact that Mr D had driven 
without insurance or for the problems hed had after that. However, it acknowledged that 
hed been given conflicting information when he called in for which it made a payment of 
£100. Subsequently it offered to increase this to £230.
Our investigator agreed Santander had made a mistake in saying the payment had gone 
through but she didnt agree it was responsible for everything that had happened after that. 
Even if the payment had been authorised, it needed the insurance company to accept it 
before the purchase was completed. This hadnt happened so thered been no confirmation 
of purchase from the insurance company as would otherwise have been the case.
In the circumstances she couldnt agree that it was reasonable to ask Santander to pay all 
the costs incurred by Mr S as a result of his being stopped for driving without insurance. But 
having taken into account the letter of 12 August, she felt it was clear that Santander had 
given Mr D the wrong information when hed called in on 9 March. And because of that she 
felt Santander had contributed to the circumstances which had led to these events. 
Santander had already paid Mr D £100 and offered a further £130 compensation but she 
didnt consider this was enough to reflect the impact of its mistake. She recommended it pay 
Mr D an additional £100 making a total of £330.
Mr D disagreed. He said that the insurers had confirmed that the payment hadnt been sent 
as otherwise it would have been in their holding account waiting to be allocated. This was 
also supported by Santanders letter of 12 August in which it accepted that it had made a 
mistake by not sending the payment. Mr D felt this had not been taken into account.
In addition, Mr D said the compensation recommended was disproportionately low when 
Santanders role in what had happened was taken into account. He asked for his complaint 
to be referred to an ombudsman
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to broadly the same conclusion as the adjudicator and for the 
same reasons. However, having considered the impact on Mr D Ive made a small increase 
to the compensation to be paid as Ill now explain.
At the heart of this complaint is the question of whether Santander was responsible for the 
fact that Mr D drove his car without insurance and whether it is, therefore, responsible for the 
costs and inconvenience that occurred as a result.Its not in dispute that Mr D always intended to make sure his car was properly insured before 
he drove it. Thats supported by the fact he made a number of attempts to arrange payment 
online and, when that didnt work, he contacted Santander to check why the payments 
havent gone through and what he needed to do to put this right. In this call he was told that 
as hed confirmed the payments were genuine, the last payment had been authorised and 
had gone through. And I can see the court also accepted that this was the case as it 
dismissed the case against him.
However, the question is whether the misinformation from Santander caused what happened 
later and I dont agree it did, as Ill now explain.
Mr D was attempting to take out insurance online. As with all online purchases it is in effect a 
three-step process. The first is that the consumer requests to purchase a particular product, 
which in this case was insurance. The second is that the consumer then makes payment 
and the third is that the payment is then confirmed by the retailer, usually by way of an email 
or text.
Theres a number of reasons why online transactions can fail so its only when proof of 
purchase is confirmed by the retailer that the consumer can be certain that the purchase has 
been completed. In Mr Ds case it seems the problem may have been that the address on 
Santander systems was not the same as the one hed used for his billing address. But 
whatever the reason, the payments failed which led Mr D to contacting Santander.
Ive listened to the call between Santander and Mr D of 9 March and heard the call handler 
tell Mr D that thered been three attempts at payment which had all failed but that the final 
one had now been authorised and gone through.
Since then Santanders since said that its investigations havent shown any errors in 
processing the payment. But against that I have to keep in mind that Santander wrote to Mr 
D on 12 August advising that, due to a systems error, this payment hadnt gone through. 
Santander hasnt explained why it wrote this letter if it wasnt correct so, on balance, I think 
its reasonable to rely on this and to conclude that, despite what Mr D was told in the call on 
9 March, this payment wasnt made by Santander on that date.
Having said that however I cant agree that Santander is responsible for everything that 
happened after that. Even if the payment had gone through this wouldnt have meant the 
insurance was in place. That depended on the insurance company accepting the payment 
and putting the policy into effect. And if it had gone though Id have expected the insurance 
company to have confirmed this by sending Mr D a receipt or other communication as, 
without that, there could be no certainty that the policy was now in place. I understand how 
distressing these events have been for Mr D but, in the circumstances, I dont consider that it 
would be fair or reasonable for me to direct Santander to pay Mr D the costs of his attending 
court or for getting his car released.
Thats not to say however that Santanders mistake had no impact on what happened. If 
Santander had told Mr D that the payment hadnt gone through then hed have known that 
his car wasnt insured and hed have had to make other arrangements before driving. On 
that basis, even though I cant agree that proof of payment is proof of purchase, it seems 
clear Mr D felt wrongly reassured by what he was told and assumed that, on that basis, he 
was now insured to drive. In the circumstances, its only fair Santander should compensate 
Mr D for the impact of its mistake.
Putting things rightIve seen Santander has already paid Mr D £100. Since then its offered to increase this to 
£230. Our investigator felt this wasnt enough and recommended Santander pay a further 
£100 making a total of £330. But Mr D feels this doesnt properly reflect the impact of its 
mistake and, unfairly, still leaves him out of pocket. 
When looking at compensation for upset and inconvenience, theres no precise way of 
calculation such awards. But I have taken into account the impact of this mistake on Mr D, 
which I think was significant and Im not satisfied that the current recommendation 
adequately reflects this. For that reason, I consider that it would be appropriate to increase 
the award by a further £100 to reflect the upset and inconvenience caused to Mr D by 
Santanders wrong information. As this increase is within my discretion, I dont consider that 
its necessary to issue a provisional decision and that its appropriate to continue with a final 
decision on Mr Ds complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint in part and direct Santander UK Plc to pay 
Mr D a further £200 compensation, in addition to the £230 already paid, making a total of 
£430.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman