DRN-4318922
The complaint
Mr D complains about American International Group UK Limited (AIG) who declined his 
claim under his gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr D had cover for two devices with AIG. During the registration process Mr D said that AIG 
automatically classed one of his devices as a tablet, and cover was provided. Mr D had to 
make a claim as the screen on the device was damaged. Once the claim had been made, 
AIG re-classified the device as a mobile phone. 
AIG said that the reason why the claim was declined was due to the policy terms and 
conditions, because cover wasnt provided for phones with screens that measured 
diagonally seven inches or over. AIG said as the screen on Mr Ds phone measured over 
eight inches diagonally, the claim was declined. 
Mr D raised a complaint as he said that the device had always been classed as a tablet and 
it was a tablet. He said it was only at the point of when he made a claim, that AIG re-classed 
the device as a phone. Further, although the device had two screens, when each was 
measured individually, they measured less than the seven inches. So, he asked AIG to 
accept the claim. 
In its final response, AIG maintained that it was fair and reasonable to decline the claim, as 
there was no cover for phones with screens over seven inches. And when the device was 
unfolded, the screen size was over seven inches. 
Mr D was given his referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said that 
AIG had provided enough evidence to show that the screen was over the seven inches as 
per the policy exclusion term.  She also felt that the device was a mobile phone device. So, 
she concluded that AIG was fair to decline the claim. 
AIG accepted the view. Mr D did not. Essentially, Mr D said that the device was not a mobile 
phone, but a tablet with two screens. He said that when he registered the device with AIG, it 
classed it as a tablet. But when he made a claim, it was re-classed as a mobile phone. He 
said that it was a tablet and not a phone. He provided evidence from the device 
manufacturer that classed it as a tablet. He said that as it was a tablet the claim shouldnt 
have been declined. So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint, and I thought the complaint should be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 3 August 2023 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 
31 August 2023. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to uphold this complaint. And I hope my provisional findings 
explain why I think this is fair. 
I have considered all the comments from both parties, as well as the policy terms and 
conditions. I think the main issue of this complaint is whether the device ought to be 
considered a mobile phone or not. 
AIG said that because Mr Ds device had two screens that measured over seven inches 
there was no cover under the policy. It accepted that on registration of the device, it had 
classed it as a tablet. But, when Mr D made a claim, it re-classified it as a phone, with a 
screen that exceeded the requirements under the policy. It relied on the policy exclusion 
term as the reason why the claim was declined. 
Mr D said that the device was a tablet and not a phone. He said that when he registered the 
device, on the AIG system, it registered it as a tablet. I havent seen any evidence from AIG 
that at the point of registration, the device wasnt registered as a tablet. And AIG accepted 
that this was the case. 
Mr D also relied on and has provided me with the device manufacturers information about 
the device and it confirms that the device is a tablet. 
AIG said that the device was a phone and relied on the same device manufacturers 
information. But only relied on one line in the document that states that the device is: a thin 
and light mobile device. And because of this the device was a phone. 
But Ive read the full information and Im not persuaded that the device is a phone. Im 
persuaded that the device is a tablet that has a phone app on it that would then allow the 
user to make and receive calls. The information from the devices manufacturer explains that 
the device can only work as a phone if a phone app is downloaded to it and in conjunction 
with a PC. If there is no phone app installed it can only work as a tablet. In other words, its 
main function is not that of a phone. I havent been provided with any expert evidence from 
AIG that is contrary to this. 
Further, Mr D has also provided other retailers who sell the device, and those retailers retail 
it as a tablet. Consequently, Im persuaded that the device was a tablet and not a phone. If 
AIG has evidence that supports its contention that the device is a phone, then I will consider 
it. 
I have further reviewed the policy terms and conditions and I can see that tablets are 
covered under the policy. Consequently, I think AIG were unfair to decline the claim. And to 
put matters right, I think AIG ought to accept the claim. Im satisfied that Mr D suffered from 
a level of stress and inconvenience due to AIG not accepting the claim. So, I think is fair for 
AIG to pay Mr D £100 compensation for the upset caused. 
Responses to my provisional decisionAIG accepted the provisional decision. But said that as the device was no longer stocked 
and as the device was unavailable from the manufacturer, it believed that any repairer would 
also find it difficult to source parts. So, it offered a cash settlement. 
Mr D said that the provisional decision was broadly fair. But he felt that as he had been 
embarrassed by having a damaged device, this caused him significant distress. He also said 
that he had to spend extensive efforts to prove that AIG had unfairly applied its own policy 
and that the device had lost its functionality. So, he expected more than the £100 
recommended compensation.
I have carefully considered Mr Ds responses to the provisional decision. Whilst I note that 
essentially both parties have accepted the proposed outcome, I understand that Mr D is 
seeking a far greater amount of compensation. 
I have reviewed our services guidance on compensation awards. And Im satisfied that Mr D 
suffered from more than the levels of frustration and annoyance you might reasonably 
expect from day-today life, and that the impact was more than just minimal. But I am also 
satisfied that the recommended level of compensation comes within our services guidelines. 
I say this as AIGs errors did cause Mr D some distress and inconvenience. As such, the 
£100 compensation, I think is fair and reasonable. And I wont be recommending anything 
higher. 
AIG has said that it will settle the claim with a cash settlement, as it was unable to replace 
the device due to it no longer being manufactured. I note that Mr D, when he referred his 
complaint to our service, indicated that a cash settlement would be one outcome that would 
be acceptable. Accordingly, I think that as AIG has accepted the recommended outcome, I 
think its fair for it to settle the claim with a cash settlement. 
Putting things right
To put matters right, I direct AIG as below. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
To put matters right, American International Group UK Limited to:
Provide a cash settlement for Mr Ds device. 
Pay Mr D £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
American International Group UK Limited must pay the above compensation within 28 days 
of the date on which we tell it Mr D accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must 
also pay interest from the date of my final decision to the date of payment, at 8% a year 
simple. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Ayisha SavageOmbudsman