DRN-3590063
The complaint
Mr D complains that he and his wife were mis-sold a holiday club membership and the loan 
used to pay for it. The loan was provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, which 
trades as Barclays Partner Finance and which Ill refer to as BPF. Mr D is represented by a 
firm of solicitors, which Ill call P.
What happened
P has explained that, in October 2008, Mr and Mrs D bought a holiday club membership 
from Club La Costa (UK) Plc (CLC). The purchase was financed with a loan provided to Mr 
D by BPF and arranged through CLC. The loan was repaid and the loan account closed in 
August 2009. 
In or around June 2021 Mr and Mrs D contacted BPF, raising a number of issues about the 
loan and the holiday club membership. In summary, they said:
At the time the loan was arranged, CLC did not have the necessary authorisation to act 
as a credit broker. The loan is therefore void.
CLC made misrepresentations about the benefits of the holiday club membership. 
Under the relevant sections of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 BPF is equally liable to Mr 
D for those misrepresentations. 
The loan agreement created an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act. 
BPF did not carry out appropriate checks to ensure that the loan was suitable and 
affordable. 
Mr D then referred the matter to this service, through P. Our investigator considered the 
case but did not recommend that the complaint be upheld, primarily because of the time that 
had passed since the purchase of the holiday club membership and the date of the loan 
agreement. P did not accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review 
the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator 
did. I set out my reasons below. 
CLCs authorisation to arrange the loan
The loan agreement and associated paperwork are no longer available. I have however 
approached this complaint on the assumption that CLC acted as credit broker, as P says it 
did.  
When the loan was set up, consumer credit broking did not require FCA authorisation; it did 
however require a licence issued by the Office of Fair Trading. In addition, from 6 April 2007, 
the Financial Ombudsman Service could consider certain complaints about OFT licensees, 
under what was then our consumer credit jurisdiction. Our own records indicate that Club La 
Costa (UK) Limited was covered under the consumer credit jurisdiction from 6 April 2007 
until 31 March 2014 and thereafter under our compulsory jurisdiction.
CLC would not have been recorded as a business coming under this services consumer 
credit jurisdiction unless it had the necessary consumer credit licence. I am satisfied 
therefore that it was properly authorised as a consumer credit broker when the loan was 
arranged in October 2008.
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in connection 
with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring 
that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the club membership. Because 
the loan documentation is not available, the exact relationship between BPF and CLC is not 
clear, but I have approached this case on the basis that the loan was set up as a result of 
pre-existing arrangements between the two and that section 75 could therefore apply.    
I must therefore consider the claims against CLC. Mr D says that CLC misled him and his 
wife about the holiday club membership. For example, they were told that they would be able 
to book luxury accommodation anywhere in the world, but that was not in fact true. 
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
There is little detail in this case about what was said to Mr and Mrs D at the time of the sale. 
However, under the Limitation Act 2010 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr and Mrs D into the 
contract for the purchase of holiday club membership were made on or before 27 October 
2008. They did not however raise any complaint with BPF until June 2021, nearly thirteen 
years later. I think it very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim against 
CLC was made outside the time limit in the Limitation Act. 
P says that the six year time limit does not apply here, because the relevant time limit is 
extended where the claimant did not know they had a cause of action or where fraud is 
involved. On the first point, I think it likely that Mr and Mrs D would have known some years 
ago if they were unable to book the holidays they expected to be able to book. And, whilst 
the allegation that CLC acted fraudulently is not really particularised, it seems to me likely as 
well that they would have known many years ago if they had been deliberately misled. Be that as it may, it is not for me to decide whether any particular claim against CLC is now 
out of time under the Limitation Act. Rather, I must decide whether the response of BPF to 
the claim under section 56 and/or section 75 was reasonable. Given the real possibility that 
a court would say that the claims are time-barred, I think it was. 
Section 104A claims
Under section 104A and section 104B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. In this case, P says that Mr D seeks restitution of sums paid 
under the loan agreement.  
The usual time limit for these types of claims under the Limitation Act is six years from the 
time the relationship between the parties ended. In this case that was no later than August 
2009, when the loan was repaid in full and the loan account closed. 
Again, I think that it was reasonable for BPF to conclude that a court would be unlikely to 
entertain such a claim and to decline the claim.             
The complaint about suitability and the credit assessment
I have not seen anything here to suggest that the lending was not affordable or that the loan 
was otherwise not appropriate for Mr D. I note that the loan was repaid within less than a 
year. It does not necessarily follow of course that proper checks were carried out or that the 
loan was affordable.  
However, our own rules say that we cannot generally consider a complaint unless it is 
referred to us within six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the 
date on which the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause 
for complaint.  
The event complained of in this case is the credit assessment that BPF carried out (or did 
not carry out) in October 2008. Mr D would have known fairly soon after that date if he was 
having difficulty making repayments. He certainly would have known by the time the loan 
was repaid. It follows that this part of the complaint should have been referred to this service 
by no later than 27 October 2014  six years from the date Mr D took it out. Because it was 
not, we have no power to consider it.  
Conclusions 
I believe that CLC held the necessary consumer credit licence at the time the loan was 
made.
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether Mr D has a claim for misrepresentation against 
CLC. Nor is it for me to decide whether any such claim might be outside the relevant time 
limits in the Limitation Act. Rather, I must consider BPFs response to the complaints made 
by Mr D.
In my view, BPF acted reasonably in concluding that the section 56 and section 75 claims 
and the section 104A claims were likely to be out of time under the relevant provisions of the 
Limitation Act.
In my view the complaint about the credit assessment was brought outside our own time 
limits and I have no power to consider it. My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited to do anything more to resolve Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman