DRN-3672120
The complaint
Mr D has complained about Experian Limited reporting a disputed debt on his credit file.
What happened
Both parties are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
A phone company are recording a debt on Mr Ds credit file. Mr D disputes the debt.
Experian raised disputes on Mr Ds behalf, but the phone company repeatedly confirmed 
that the information was correct and that Mr D would need to contact them directly. The 
phone company did not consent to Experian changing or removing the entry. Experian 
explained that they dont own the data and only the phone company can change it, but Mr D 
felt Experian should stop reporting the data until his dispute is finished.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that Experian had done all they could, and Mr D would need to take his dispute to 
the phone company.
Mr D didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr D has raised a number of points about what the phone company did. But 
this decision is about Experian, not the phone company. I can only look at what Experian did 
here. So I cannot address Mr Ds points about the phone company in this decision, and 
I cannot make any findings about whether the phone company are right or wrong. I also will 
not make any findings on Mr Ds previous dispute with a different utility company. Again, this 
final decision is only about Experian, and only about what they did in this particular case.
Essentially, Im afraid that Mr D really has complained about the wrong company.
Experian do not own the data on Mr Ds credit file  its the companies who log the data, like 
Mr Ds lenders and utility companies, who own the data. So here, its the phone company 
who owns the entry about the disputed debt. And Experian are not allowed to change that 
entry, or put it on hold, or stop reporting it, or do anything along those lines, without the 
phone companys permission.
When a customer queries an entry, wed expect Experian to raise that dispute with the data 
owner on the customers behalf. But I can see Experian did that here, twice. And both times, 
the phone company confirmed that the outstanding balance was correct and that Mr D would 
need to contact them directly if he wanted to take it further.
So as Experian, the phone company, the debt collector, and our investigator have said, Mr D 
really does need to dispute things with the phone company directly if he wants this credit file 
entry changed. Experian have broadly done what they could.
Mr D suggested that Experian should hold off from reporting this entry until hed finished his 
dispute with the phone company, or that they should create a new mechanism to handle 
disputes in a way that he felt was more impartial. But as we explained before, Experian do 
not own the data on Mr Ds file. So they cant change an entry or stop reporting it without the 
data owners permission, and that includes removing it temporarily. Mr D needs to complain 
to the phone company if he wants the entry changed or removed. I appreciate that Mr D is 
unhappy that Experian cannot remove this entry, temporarily or otherwise, but that is how 
this works. We are not the regulators and we cannot tell Experian to change the way they 
handle disputes across the board.
Mr D asked who would be responsible for amending his file and compensating him. In this 
case, if the phone company are found to have been reporting the wrong data, then its the 
phone company who will be responsible for adjusting Mr Ds credit file and for paying any 
required compensation  not Experian.
Mr D has suggested that Experian and the phone company are effectively the same entities, 
but they are not. They are completely separate companies with separate roles. I cannot hold 
Experian responsible for the phone companys actions. 
Mr D asked for information from regulators to cross-reference what weve said. Here is a 
useful page on the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) website. Theyre the regulator 
who look after data issues.
https://ico.org.uk/your-data-matters/credit 
To quote their website:
Who is responsible for the information on my credit file?
It is easy to see why people assume the CRAs [credit reference agencies] are responsible 
for all the information that appears on their credit file. However, in reality, the lenders and 
telecoms and utility companies who passed the information to the CRA in the first place also 
have responsibilities for the information that appears on your credit file.
As a general rule, if the entry you are looking at has the name of a company on it, its likely 
to be that company who is responsible for that entry. The CRAs cannot amend this data 
without the permission of that company.
In this case, its the phone company who are responsible for the entry on Mr Ds credit file, 
and Experian cannot amend this data without the permission of the phone company.Mr D is also free to ask the ICO, or the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), for more 
information about the rules theyve set. While the regulators wont comment on Mr Ds 
individual complaint, he can also give them his feedback about how he thinks the credit 
referencing system should change. I do understand that he is most dissatisfied with how 
credit reference agencies work. However, our service only deals with individual complaints, 
so Im not best placed to comment on how things work in general, and I cannot change the 
rules or make Experian invent new mechanisms for dealing with disputes.
When it comes to Mr Ds individual complaint, I can see that Experian have already done 
what wed expect them to. If Mr D wishes to pursue this matter further, he needs to do so 
with the phone company.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about Experian Limited.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman