DRN-3296056
The complaint
Mr L complains about the quality of a new car supplied by BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited (trading as Aston Martin Financial Services) (AMFS) under a finance agreement. 
What happened
Mr L acquired this car with a hire purchase agreement (HPA) in mid-March 2018 and he took 
delivery before the end of the same month. The HPA was due to come to an end two years 
later in March 2020. AMFS sent Mr L some end of contract guidance in October 2019 
suggesting he could discuss his options with the dealer. Mr L contacted the dealer around 
this time - but he was unhappy with the valuation of the car and the terms offered for a new 
vehicle. Mr L says the car failed three times over the two years he had it. He thinks it 
probably had an underlying electrical fault from the outset, it wasnt fit for purpose and its 
unfair he had to pay so much for such an unreliable vehicle. 
After some negotiations with the dealer, the manufacturer offered to contribute £30,000 
towards a new car. Mr L didnt think that was enough. He took legal advice and wrote to the 
dealer in January 2020 to say he wanted to reject the car. The dealer responded (in early 
February 2020) to say it didnt think Mr L was entitled to reject and hed need to get in touch 
with AMFS if he wished to do so. Mr L contacted AMFS (near the end of February 2020) but 
his complaint was rejected. AMFS thought Mr L had accepted repairs when they were 
offered and he continued to use the car so it was too late to reject it. Mr L didnt think that 
was fair and he brought his complaint to our service.
AMFS objected to us considering the matter at first - because it didnt think we had 
jurisdiction to do so under our rules. A different ombudsman decided that the Financial 
Ombudsman Service does have jurisdiction and we are able to consider the merits of Mr Ls 
complaint. AMFS accepted that decision but it considers the complaint should not be upheld 
because Mr L wasnt entitled to reject - and he only looked to do so because he was 
unhappy with the terms on offer when the HPA ended. AMFS also expressed concern that 
Mr L hadnt returned the car (at that point) and he might still be using it.
Mr L told us he was waiting for either AMFS or the dealer to collect the car, so he kept it on 
the driveway and just turned the engine over regularly. Then, in January 2021, the car 
wouldnt start and a recovery service found the battery needed a complete recharge. Mr L 
and the dealer agreed that the car should be sold and the proceeds applied to reduce the 
balance owed under the finance. The car was sold a few months later and over £92,000 was 
paid off the balance of about £129,000 due under the HPA - leaving Mr L to pay over 
£36,000. 
Mr L feels this is unfair. He says the car has cost him over £96,000 over the two years he 
had it (taking into account the cost of finance, insurance, road tax, the tracking device and 
legal fees) when he drove it less than 5,000 miles and it had to be recovered three times. He 
thinks AMFS got the facts and the law wrong and it should have allowed him to reject the 
car. He wants AMFS to reimburse his financial losses and pay compensation for associated 
distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He accepted the car 
should have been fault free at the point of supply and fairly durable. Having considered the 
evidence, including work carried out by the dealer, he was satisfied that any issues found 
were resolved under the manufacturers warranty at no cost to Mr L. He didnt think that was 
unreasonable  and he thought Mr L accepted this at the time as he didnt seek to reject until 
several months after the last issue. 
The investigator acknowledged Mr L was disappointed with the car - which didnt meet his 
expectations. But, he wasnt persuaded, on balance, that the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality. He didnt think Mr L was entitled to reject it. And he wasnt persuaded that AMFS 
should have to do anything else.
Mr L disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. He said (in summary):- 
he had a reasonable expectation that a prestige car of this price would offer 
enhanced quality;
the car failed within six months of supply and he had the right to reject under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) because it was of unsatisfactory quality; 
even if he wasnt entitled to reject, he should be entitled to a reduction in price or 
damages, pursuant to the CRA; 
the manufacturer acknowledged there were quality issues and made a goodwill offer 
of £30,000 (which was later reduced to £16,000); 
the car continued to exhibit quality issues at the second annual service in April 2020 - 
when a part had to be replaced under warranty  which has safety implications; 
all his dealings were with the supplying dealer - and AMFS provided specific end of 
agreement guidance confirming the dealer had authority to negotiate on its behalf; 
he was never told that he should bring any technical or warranty issues to AMFS, he 
was only referred to AMFS when he asked to reject  which was soon after the third 
issue appeared - and he got in touch with AMFS within days; and 
AMFS, the manufacturer and the dealer all failed to deliver goods and services in line 
with their obligations.
Having considered the evidence available, I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. My 
reasons were somewhat different to those of the investigator and I issued a provisional 
decision on 17 January 2022 to let the parties see my provisional conclusions and make 
further submissions (if they wanted to) before I made my final decision. What I decided 
provisionally  and why  is set out below and this forms part of my final decision. 
 
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory  as some of it is here- I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. This means I consider whats most likely to have happened based on the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr L has provided detailed submissions over several documents and I can see he has 
strong feelings about what happened here. I want to assure both parties that Ive considered 
everything thats been said and sent to us. If I dont address every point thats been made, 
its not because I havent thought about it. But, I intend to focus in this decision on what I 
think are the key issues. Im satisfied that I dont need to comment on every single argument 
to be able to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome. The rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service allow me to do this  and it reflects the informal nature of our dispute 
resolution service which is a free alternative to the courts.In his submissions Mr L has referred to other complaints, that he considers are on similar 
facts to this one, which were upheld by our service. So, I should make it clear at the outset 
that we consider each complaint on its own unique circumstances. Our decisions do not 
create a precedent. I make my decision based on what I think is fair and reasonable overall 
in the individual circumstances of this complaint  a court may take a different view.
Mr L brings this complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service because AMFS supplied the 
car under a HPA. Im considering AMFSs obligations arising out of that finance agreement. 
And Im unable to hold AMFS responsible for the dealers after sales service  or the actions 
of other third parties, such as the manufacturer.
I can see that Mr L has suggested the dealer had actual authority to act for AMFS  he 
refers to guidance he was sent before the HPA ended. Im satisfied this guidance relates to 
the end of the HPA and the possibility that Mr L might wish to acquire a new vehicle. I dont 
think its unusual for a lender to suggest that customers should discuss their end of finance 
options (which might include part exchange and the like) with a dealer. Im not persuaded 
that this means AMFS authorised the dealer to act on its behalf throughout the life of this 
HPA. I think the HPA makes it clear that AMFS was the credit provider and owned the car 
until the final payment was made. And Im not persuaded that Mr L should reasonably have 
been misled about that.
Satisfactory quality
I dont apply the law but I must have regard to relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, 
guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) good industry practice, 
at the relevant time. Im satisfied the CRA is relevant here and, under the CRA, theres an 
implied term that the car would be of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. This means 
AMFS is responsible for any faults that are likely to have been present at the point of supply 
- but Im unable to reasonably hold AMFS liable for wear and tear or maintenance issues.
The quality of goods includes their general state and condition as well as fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability. And what 
amounts to satisfactory quality will vary according to individual circumstances. I think this 
car needed to meet the standard a reasonable person would expect  taking into account its 
age, price and mileage at the point of supply. Im satisfied the car was new when Mr L got it 
and cost over £160,000. As such, I think he had a reasonable expectation that it would be 
fault free at the point of supply, reasonably durable and of a much higher standard than a 
used, less expensive vehicle.
What went wrong with the car
Mr L says he had three issues with this car. The first occurred in September 2018, when the 
car had just over 1,700 miles on the clock. Mr L told us he dis-engaged the parking brake - 
and the relevant indicator on the dashboard went out - but the brake did not actually dis-
engage. Then he heard a grinding noise and the car lost power. I can see the car was 
recovered to the dealer by a specialist breakdown service that noted the car had a grinding 
noise and a hop. The dealer ran diagnostic checks and (according to an invoice dated six 
days later) spoke to the customer and confirmed possible sticking when car left on steep 
slope and starting to drive away before handbrake fully released.
The CRA says (broadly speaking) if something goes wrong after 30 days but within six 
months of supply, this is taken to have been present at the outset - unless theres reason to 
think otherwise. I dont think any relatively new car should make a grinding sound and lose 
power in this way, in the normal course of events. So, it looks as if something must have 
gone wrong here.The relevant invoice doesnt say if any action was taken to resolve the problem  or set out 
any associated cost (unlike the other invoices Ive seen for warranty work carried out on the 
car by this dealer). So, its not entirely clear what the dealer did  or didnt do  in response. 
Mr L told us he understands there was a fault in the servo that powers the electronic brake 
and this was fixed when the dealer disassembled and re-lubricated the entire system under 
the warranty. I have no reason to disbelieve what Mr L says. And, in the absence of 
evidence to the contrary, Im inclined (on balance) to find this sounds like a fault which was 
probably present when the car was supplied.
I am not persuaded however that Mr L had the right to reject the car at this point. The CRA 
allows for an attempt at repair in this situation. And it looks as if this issue was fixed within a 
reasonable time and at no cost or significant inconvenience to Mr L. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that he had any further problems with the brake. And I think this sounds like a fair 
remedy, in the circumstances.
I can see the car had to be recovered again in November 2018 because it wouldnt start. Mr 
L had already booked the car in with the dealer for checks because he had some electrical 
problems - the radio, telephone connectivity and stop/start override stopped working and any 
buttons pushed would result in a ping sound with nothing on the screen  and the nearside 
window wouldnt close properly. The dealer investigated and found the battery was flat and a 
door module and another part (a can header) were faulty. All three items appear to have 
been replaced under the manufacturers warranty.
Ive seen nothing to show that the flat battery was due to a fault. But, whilst I cant be certain 
what caused the problems with the other two parts (and I accept this was more than six 
months after supply) I think these were probably inherent issues. I say this because I dont 
think these particular parts are likely to have worn out - some eight months and 2,000 or so 
miles after supply - and theres no suggestion they failed as the result of mis-use or any lack 
of maintenance. I also note the relevant invoice refers to faults found.
If Mr L was unhappy with the repairs he was offered at this stage, I think it was open to him 
to raise this with AMFS at that time. And, if the car had already been repaired once (as Ive 
outlined above) then he could have asked to reject it or sought a different remedy. 
A car is a costly and depreciating asset (as the CRA acknowledges by exempting motor 
vehicles from the right to a full refund in the first six months). So, if Mr L considered this car 
was of unsatisfactory quality - meaning AMFS was in breach of its obligations under the HPA 
 I think he needed to let AMFS know that within a reasonable time. This would have given 
AMFS the opportunity to look into things further (which might have included gathering 
additional evidence or appointing an independent expert to inspect the car) and agree to 
take the car back (or some other remedy) if that was appropriate.
Ive seen nothing to show that Mr L told either the dealer or AMFS that he was unhappy with 
the repairs offered at this point. Im satisfied he accepted this remedy. I think it seems to 
have resolved the relevant issues successfully - fairly quickly, at no cost and without too 
much inconvenience to Mr L. And, by continuing to use the car, Mr L acknowledged he 
accepted this.
It looks as if there were no further problems with the car until March the following year when 
Mr L contacted the dealer about noisy brakes. The relevant invoice says brake pads were 
removed so the discs could be cleaned which resolved the issue. Given Mr L had the car for 
over a year and driven it almost 3,000 miles at this point, I think the noise was likely wear 
and tear related. Ive seen nothing to show that it was due to a fault. In fairness, I dont think 
Mr L suggests thats the case - I only mention it here for the sake of completeness.The third issue that Mr L relies upon occurred in December 2019 when, at just under 4,400 
miles, he found his usual key wouldnt start the car and the spare key didnt work either. Mr L 
says he was told that the wrong batteries had been installed in the keys at the outset. Im not 
entirely clear about how one key was able to function without issue for nearly two years if it 
had the wrong battery inserted. In any event however, I dont think this sounds like a fault 
with the car. Im satisfied it happened more than six months after supply. I cant reasonably 
disregard the fact that batteries run down over time. And, given the passage of time, I think 
this is unlikely to be a fault that was present at the outset.
In his response to the investigators view, Mr L mentioned a further issue  the central rear 
high level braking indicator failed in April 2020. This happened after the HPA ended. Ive 
seen nothing to persuade me that its connected to earlier faults or repairs. And Im not 
persuaded it suggests there was some underlying/inherent electrical problem with the car. 
Was Mr L entitled to reject the car
In his letter of complaint to this service, Mr L says he had never considered rejection until he 
was unable to reach a settlement with the dealer. This happened, as far as I can see, after 
the dealer valued the car at around £100,000. I can see why Mr L was disappointed by this 
valuation. Its understandable he had high expectations for such a prestige vehicle with a 
substantial price tag. And I think this probably increased any frustration he felt arising out of 
his experience with the car up to this point.
For the reasons Ive set out above however, Im not persuaded that every issue Mr L refers 
to was the result of an inherent defect (meaning the car of unsatisfactory quality at the 
outset). On the current evidence, I think the repairs required in 2018 were probably due to 
inherent faults - which might have given rise to the right to reject the car then. If Mr L wanted 
to exercise that right however, I think he would have needed to do so within a reasonable 
time. Im satisfied he had the chance to check that the relevant repairs were successful. And 
I think he indicated his acceptance of this remedy - and any associated breach under the 
HPA  when he continued to use the car for some considerable time after.
Im not persuaded that the problem with the keys in December 2019 is likely to be the result
of an inherent fault that entitled Mr L to reject the car then. I dont think the offer of a
contribution from the manufacturer to assist Mr L into a new vehicle around this time means
it accepted the car was of unsatisfactory quality at that stage. Im satisfied its not uncommon
for vehicle manufacturers to offer this sort of contribution. And the fact the offer was reduced
not long after it was made suggests it was related to market value - not linked to any
reduction in the cars value due to quality issues.
I appreciate Mr L may regret not seeking to reject this car sooner, with hindsight. But I think
this is probably because he was unhappy with how much the car had depreciated in value. I
cant reasonably hold AMFS responsible for that, in these circumstances. And, taking
everything Ive seen so far into account, Im not persuaded there are sufficient fair and
reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint. 
The responses to my provisional decision  
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further 
submissions by 31 January 2022 and explained Id make my final decision after that date, 
based on the evidence available. AMFS didnt raised any objections or provide any further 
submissions. Mr L was unhappy with my provisional findings and he provided a fairly 
detailed response. Ive summarised what he said below (for ease of refence):- 
He sought to reject the car on quality grounds based on legal advice he received when the dealer said he didnt have the right to do so and hes surprised that I made 
limited/no reference in the provisional decision to the fact that he took (and acted upon) 
legal advice obtained from specialists at considerable expense;
Quality issues were the sole criteria for wanting to reject the car and its unreasonable 
to expect him to know that further issues would arise when he was offered repairs and 
suggest he should have tried to reject the car sooner;
He was grateful for the contribution offered by the dealer/manufacturer but couldnt 
accept it as the terms on offer were not a manageable risk for him and his family;
He had no desire to keep the car/use it after the HPA ended as AMFS has suggested - 
in fact he invited AMFS to take the car back but they declined;
The dealer signed and dated the HPA so it must have had authority from AMFS to do 
so and, if thats not the case, then the HPA should be declared void entitling him to a 
complete refund of all expenditure;
AMFS told him (incorrectly) that they had no title in the car, AMFS didnt respond when 
he challenged this and he wasnt told that he should report warranty issues to AMFS  
theres nothing in the HPA to this effect; 
Given the dealer negotiated and signed the HPA it was reasonable to believe the 
dealer had authority to act for AMFS throughout and the dealer should have notified 
AMFS of the problems he had with the car; 
AMFS objected to the Financial Ombudsman Service looking into the matter which 
caused delay and increased his financial losses; and 
Its unfair that he has incurred huge expenses for a completely unsatisfactory 
experience when the dealer, manufacturer and AMFS havent been penalised. 
In view of Mr Ls comments, I wrote to the parties again (in February 2022) in order to clarify 
some points and deal with further issues raised. I reminded the parties that Im looking at 
AMFSs obligations arising out of the HPA here. Im not a regulator - I dont have the power 
to penalise AMFS or any financial business. And Im unable to hold AMFS responsible for 
the actions of the manufacturer or the dealers post sale service. 
I said I understand Mr L thought the dealer was acting on behalf of AMFS throughout the life 
of the HPA. So, amongst other things, he feels it is unfair that the dealer didnt keep AMFS 
updated about the issues that he had. I acknowledged section 56 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 makes AMFS responsible for antecedent negotiations - but this ended when the 
HPA was taken out. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that the dealer acted as agent for 
AMFS after that. I explained I was satisfied that the dealer and AMFS are separate 
companies. And I think the HPA makes it reasonably clear that it was AMFS that hired the 
car to Mr L - paragraphs 4, 5, 6, and 8 explain that Mr L was obliged to insure the car, 
maintain it and return it to AMFS (if he didnt make the final payment) - and it was AMFS that 
he needed to notify if he wanted to pay off the finance early. 
I also noted that paragraph 9(b) refers to Mr Ls rights if the car is not of satisfactory quality. I 
said, even if he didnt read the agreement in detail when he first took it out, Id expect Mr L to 
have considered the terms and conditions if he was unhappy with the car and wanted to 
reject it. And I dont think he should reasonably have been misled about who he needed to 
contact if he wanted to do so and end the agreement. 
I recognised Mr L was grateful for the contribution offer and I took on board what he said 
about his reasons for not accepting this - and his intentions regarding use of the car after the 
HPA ended. I acknowledged it must have been frustrating for Mr L when AMFS questioned 
whether this service had jurisdiction to consider the matter. But, Im satisfied AMFS was 
entitled to raise the point and I cant fairly criticise AMFS for doing so, in the circumstances.
I said I thought Mr L has made it very clear that his sole grounds for seeking to reject this car are related to the quality of the vehicle. But, even if he had looked to end the end the 
agreement by other means, such as voluntary termination (VT), I dont think he would have 
been any better off at this stage. I thought VT would have entailed paying half the amount 
due under the HPA which seems to be nearly £88,500. And it looks as if Mr L actually paid 
just over £84,000 in the end (excluding charges for insurance, road tax and the tracker which 
he was obliged to pay as long as he had the car). So, even if I were to accept that Mr L 
might have avoided a year or so of such payments (if the HPA had ended in January 2021) it 
would only have amounted to a saving of about £2,000 - and he wouldnt have been better 
off financially .
I acknowledged Mr L has gone to some trouble and expense to get legal advice. But, he 
hasnt made this available to us and Im unable to comment upon it. I explained that I 
thought it was up to Mr L to decide if he wanted to obtain such advice in this situation  as 
consumers dont have to get legal advice or representation in order to bring a complaint to 
our service.  
Finally, I said I remained of the view Mr L wasnt entitled to reject the car on quality grounds 
when he sought to do so. And I wasnt persuaded that there are sufficient fair and 
reasonable grounds to uphold his complaint. In the interests of fairness, I gave the parties 
some additional time to consider what Id said and make further submissions (if they wanted 
to) before I made my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The time set for responses has now passed. AMFS hasnt made any further submissions . 
Mr L remains unhappy with my provisional findings. He says (and I hope hell understand 
that, once again, Ive had to summarise his comments, for ease of reference):-
he tried to mediate a compromise from the outset but all parties involved sought to 
avoid responsibility;
it should be obvious to any neutral observer that a car of this price with so little use 
and mileage must be of unsatisfactory quality and AMFS, as owner, should bear 
responsibility for that;
the various corporate relationships and their operating procedures and accountability 
are not his concern - the bottom line is he thought he was making a one-stop 
purchase when he entered the dealership and, instead, he found himself in a 
corporate minefield because of quality issues;
consideration of who had what authority and obligations under the HPA is ambiguous 
and misleading as all parties concerned represent the brand; and
its unrealistic to suggest that he should have a detailed knowledge of consumer 
legislation - he felt compelled to obtain legal advice in order to understand his 
position and options. 
Ive considered Mr Ls comments carefully. But, he hasnt supplied any new evidence or said 
anything thats persuaded me to change my mind. And I dont think theres much I can add 
to what Ive said already. Im satisfied there could be all sorts of reasons for relatively low 
mileage  sometimes drivers will have access to other means of transport and/or choose not 
to use a prestige vehicle like this one day to day, for example. I cant reasonably conclude 
that low mileage means this car was of unsatisfactory quality in the circumstances here. 
I understand Mr Ls strength of feeling about what happened. I can see he considers hes done nothing wrong yet hes been penalised unfairly for acquiring this particular car. I have 
no doubt he feels let down by all of the parties involved. And I appreciate hes frustrated by 
my reference to the various different entities. However, as Ive explained already, I have to 
take the law into account when I make my decision. Mr L has referred this complaint to our 
service because he acquired the car under a finance agreement. And Im looking at AMFSs 
obligations arising out of that finance agreement. Its not within my remit to make 
determinations regarding third parties such as the dealer or manufacturer.  
I accept Mr L had some quality issues with this car. But, Im satisfied that he accepted 
repairs when they were offered - and he continued to use the car. I think the remedies 
provided were reasonable at the relevant times - and the repairs undertaken seem to have 
been successful. Im not persuaded its likely this car had an underlying electrical or other 
recurring issue. And, taking everything into account, I remain of the view there arent 
sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint. It follows, Im unable to 
require AMFS to provide a refund or do anything else. 
I realise Mr L is likely to be disappointed by this decision but hes not obliged to accept what 
Ive said. In which case, it remains open to him to pursue the matter by any other means 
available. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.  
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman