DRN-3696577
The complaint
Mr G complains that Sabre Insurance Company Limited (Sabre) reduced his no claims
bonus (NCB) to nil after two of his motorbikes were stolen, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Two of Mr Gs motorbikes were stolen from an underground garage at the same time. He
had them insured on a multi-bike policy with Sabre. Mr G thought this should be classed as
one claim, but Sabre recorded it as two. This meant his NCB reduced from six years down to
nil. Mr G didnt think this was fair and complained to Sabre.
In its final complaint response Sabre says although the bikes were stolen at the same time, it
must set up two claims on its system to facilitate payment. It says it cant make payment for
both bikes under one claim. It refers to its policy terms that state the NCB will reduce to zero
where two claims are made before the policy renewal date.
As a gesture of goodwill Sabre says it will manually amend the renewal to count only one
claim. But it says it cant guarantee how other insurers will assess Mr Gs premium given
both claims will remain on the Consumer Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database.
Mr G didnt think this was fair and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt
uphold his complaint. He says as two bikes were stolen this had to be recorded as two
claims  one for each bike. He says each is listed separately on Mr Gs insurance certificate
with a separate excess applied for each.
Mr G didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mr Gs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My remit here to is to consider whether Sabre treated Mr G fairly when recording two claims
following the theft of his two motor bikes.
I have read Mr Gs policy terms. In relation to excess payments the terms say:
If you have a multibike policy, the full excess is applied to each vehicle on which a claim is
being made, except if there is a claim on more than one motorcycle for the same claim, in
which the higher excess will apply.
Mr G has a multi-bike policy. Its accepted that two of his bikes listed on his policy were
stolen during the same incident. The policy terms indicate that only one excess is applicable
in these circumstances. Mr G paid £1,025 for his excess charge. This represents one excess
fee, which is in line with what the terms say.
I think Sabre has correctly charged one excess fee here.
The policy schedule says:
We will not pay the first amount shown in the policy schedule for any fire or theft claim
under Section 1 of this document. This endorsement applies on top of any other amount
which you may have to pay towards each claim. If you have a multibike policy, the full
excess is applied to each vehicle on which a claim is being made, except if there is a claim
on more than one motorcycle for the same claim, in which the higher excess will apply. If we
pay the whole amount of the claim at first, you must immediately pay us the amount you
have to pay under this endorsement.
The indication is that one claim can incorporate the theft of more than one bike. Mr G has
one policy number and as confirmed by Sabre only one policy excess is payable in these
circumstances.
I acknowledge Sabres comments that its system limitations mean it had to record two
separate claims in order to provide payment for both of Mr Gs bikes. But I dont think its
system limitations should mean that two claims are recorded as opposed to one.
I have thought about Sabres reliance on its policy terms to justify reducing Mr Gs NCB to
nil. The terms say:
If two or more claims arise before the renewal date and your no claim bonus is not
guaranteed your no claim bonus entitlement will be reduced to nil.
If Mr G had made two claims, Sabre wouldve been justified in reducing his NCB to nil. But I
dont think he did. Mr G made one claim when two of his bikes were stolen at the same time
from the same place. I think the policy terms indicate this should be recorded as one claim.
Mr G says he is happy with how the claim was handled. The only issue he has is that two
claims were recorded when he thinks this shouldve been one. I agree with Mr G that the fair
outcome here is that only one claim is recorded by Sabre.
In summary I dont think Sabre treated Mr G fairly when recording two claims against his
policy. This has reduced his NCB to nil. The terms indicate only claim should be recorded
and so its fair that Sabre amends its records, and those on the CUE database, to confirm
only one claim was made. It should also amend Mr Gs NCB to reflect that only one claim
was made.
I said I was intending to uphold Mr Gs complaint and Sabre Insurance Company Limited 
should:
amend its records, and those held on the CUE database, to show only one claim
relating to this incident; and
amend Mr Gs no-claims bonus to reflect that only one claim was made.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Sabre says that it accepts my provisional decision. Mr G said he had no further comments or information for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Sabre Insurance Company Limited should:
amend its records, and those held on the CUE database, to show only one claim
relating to this incident; and
amend Mr Gs no-claims bonus to reflect that only one claim was made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman