DRN-3169857
The complaint
Mr W complained that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) lent to him 
irresponsibly and provided him with loans that were unaffordable.
What happened
Everyday Loans provided loans to Mr W as follows: 
Loan Date 
takenAmount Term Monthly 
repayme
ntTotal amount 
repayableLoan status
1 23/07/19 £1,000 18 months £122.23 £2,200.14 Settled by loan 2 
on
27/07/20
2 27/07/20 £1436.34 18 months £168.29 £3029.22 Active
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. She didnt think Everyday Loans should 
have provided Mr W with the loans and she asked Everyday Loans to pay redress for this. 
Everyday Loans didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. It mainly said:
it had questioned Mr W about his adverse credit history before granting loan 1 and he 
had provided a reasonable explanation about this
Everyday Loans didnt agree that the outstanding balance Mr W owed on a number 
of county court judgements was considerably high as our adjudicator had suggested
it asked for more information about why our adjudicator had felt that Mr Ws spending 
on credit was too high a proportion of his income
it said its affordability calculations showed that his creditor repayments were 
affordable for his individual circumstances. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. And its important to keep in mind that when working 
out if a loan looks likely to be affordable a lender must take a borrower focussed 
approach and think carefully about the impact of the lending on the customer. The lending 
decision shouldnt just be about the business risk to the lender of not getting its money 
back.
A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably 
repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the 
repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should 
also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation.  
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint. 
For loan 1, Everyday Loans gathered information that showed Mr Ws take home pay would 
be around £2,626 and verified his employment and pay by checking his bank statements. It 
carried out credit checks to see what he was paying to service his existing debts and noted 
his creditor repayments were around £957. Everyday Loans relied on statistical information 
to assess what someone in Mr Ws particular situation would be likely to spend each month 
and allowed a figure of £680 for his spending on general living costs  which seems 
reasonable to me. 
Everyday Loans allowed for the fact that Mr W said he planned to use the loan to repay a 
£700 loan he had recently taken out with another lender. Everyday Loans worked out that 
this would save him having to pay £218 per month for the next 6 months towards that loan. 
So it didnt include this amount when doing its own affordability calculations. On this basis, 
Everyday Loans calculated that Mr W would most likely have around £584 spare cash each 
month after taking out the loan with Everyday Loans. 
But, whilst I've thought carefully about what Everyday Loans has said, I dont think that 
Everyday Loans made a fair lending decision on this occasion. 
I dont think Everyday Loans thought carefully enough about what Mr Ws credit history 
revealed about his overall financial situation. Despite the explanations he had told Everyday 
Loans, I think its own credit checks painted a picture of someone struggling to manage 
money problems effectively and it included clear warning signs that Mr W was likely 
experiencing financial difficulty. 
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be 
reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. 
But I think Everyday Loans should have been concerned to see that Mr W had a number of 
outstanding county court judgements shown on his record. I can understand why Everyday 
Loans might not have been put off lending on the strength of just a couple of judgement 
debts dating back to 2014  one of which had been satisfied in 2017. But Everyday Loans could also see that Mr W had another outstanding county court 
judgement dating back to 2017 as well as two more recent judgement debts within the 
previous 12 months dating from July and August 2018. The debt outstanding on these three 
cases alone was more than £1,700. I see this as part of a bigger picture that showed all the 
hallmarks of a person still in serious financial difficulty. 
And I think thats borne out by the fact that Everyday Loans gathered information showing 
that Mr W was spending approximately one third of his take home pay on servicing debt. 
I think its reasonable to think that if Mr W had really had the amount of disposable income 
Everyday Loans had calculated he wouldnt have needed to rely to this extent on credit. And 
even if his credit history covered a period when his circumstances were different, it didnt 
appear that he had made any meaningful inroads into clearing more of this debt in the way 
that Everyday Loans might reasonably have expected if it had correctly understood his 
financial situation.
To my mind, all this shouldve alerted Everyday Loans to the risk that it couldnt safely rely 
on what Mr W had told it about how he spent his money as he clearly had unexplained levels 
of problematic debt. 
And even after allowing for the fact that Mr W planned to use this loan to repay other debt, 
this still left him needing to spend around a third or so of his take home pay on paying 
creditors. I think our adjudicator was right to suggest that this was such a significant 
proportion of Mr Ws disposable income that Everyday Loans couldnt reasonably say that it 
was likely that Mr W would be able to repay its loan in a sustainable way  especially 
bearing in mind the 18 months loan term. 
All the signs were that Mr W couldnt afford the debt he was already responsible for paying 
and he was relying on taking out new credit to supplement his income in order to be able to 
make the monthly repayments he owed. So its hard to understand why Everyday Loans 
thought Mr W would be able to sustainably afford its loan. 
And so I dont think Everyday Loans made a fair lending decision on this occasion when it 
agreed to provide this loan to Mr W based on the information it had in front of it. 
It follows that I dont think Everyday Loans made a fair and reasonable lending decision 
when it set up loan 2 for him. 
I think it shouldve been apparent that topping up his loan with Everyday Loans and 
borrowing extra at the same time was simply a continuation of the pattern of reliance on 
expensive payday and unsecured loans that Everyday Loans could see on its credit checks. 
There were clear signs that Mr W was still struggling to manage his money  Everyday 
Loans saw that he had a number of returned unpaid direct debts shown on his bank 
statements and some other new credit accounts. Yet by taking out loan 2, Mr W was signing 
up to make increased monthly repayments to Everyday Loans. And he would still be 
committed to making monthly repayments to creditors of more than a third of his net monthly 
pay  which I dont think was a sustainable position for Mr W.  
So, for all these reasons, to my mind, it was reasonably foreseeable that both these loans 
wouldnt be sustainably affordable for Mr W and Everyday Loans ought reasonably to have 
been aware that taking further, costly lending was unlikely to help Mr W and serve only to 
increase his indebtedness over the longer term. This is why I am planning on upholding 
Mr Ws complaint that he should not have been given the loans.I havent seen anything to make me think that Everyday Loans acted unfairly or 
unreasonably some other way. So Im not planning to award any additional redress over and 
above what I've set out below. But as Mr W has been further indebted with expensive 
lending that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a 
result of what Everyday Loans did wrong. So, as things stand, I think Everyday Loans needs 
to put things right as follows.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Everyday Loans has acknowledged safe receipt of my provisional decision. 
The deadline for responses has now passed so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with 
my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr W to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has paid extra for lending that should not have been provided to him. In line with this 
Services approach, Mr W shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he borrowed. If Everyday Loans has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and 
then take the following steps. Otherwise, Everyday Loans should liaise with the new debt 
owner to achieve the results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr W received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr W made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr W having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr W keeping in mind its obligation 
to treat him positively and sympathetically in those discussions.
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ws credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if 
he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) to 
take the steps set out above to put things right for Mr W. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman