The complaint
Mr P complains that Aviva Insurance Limited ("Aviva") have mishandled his legal expenses 
insurance claim.
Aviva use intermediaries to administer their legal expenses policy on their behalf. So any 
reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including the acts and 
omissions of such intermediaries. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision in response to Mr Ps 
submissions, which in summary are:
He understood that the £100,000 policy indemnity limit would refresh each year upon
renewal, such that the same claim could benefit from multiple indemnity limits if it
spanned the policy renewal. He says the policy is ambiguous in this respect and it
was not made clear that the indemnity limit was an absolute maximum of £100,000
per claim.
In any event, the subsequent legal action he sought to pursue against his neighbour
for breaching the Tomlin order ought to be considered as a separate claim with its
own indemnity limit, and should not have been considered a continuation of the
original dispute with his neighbour.
Aviva also unfairly deducted around £19,000 in legal costs from his indemnity limit
and failed to make this clear to him at the time. He would not have agreed to Aviva
settling the legal dispute through mediation if he knew this was the case, as they
ought to have pursued the other side for their costs rather than deducting it from his
indemnity limit
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
Indemnity Limit
Mr P says Aviva failed to make it clear that the policy would provide a maximum of £100,000 
per insured event, and that the policy is ambiguous in this respect. The policy terms and 
conditions set out the following:
The maximum we will pay for any one claim is shown on your schedule".
For any claim or series of claims involving legal liability covered by this policy, we will 
pay:
DRN-1558203(a) Up to the limit shown on your schedule (less any amounts already paid by us).
Mr Ps policy limit as set out in his schedule is £100,000. There is nothing in the policy 
wording to suggest that this amount will be paid by Aviva for each insured event per year 
that the claim may go on for. Instead, I'm satisfied that the policy wording set out above 
makes it clear that the indemnity limit is the maximum that will be paid per insured event  
or per any series of claims that stem from an insured event  meaning that Aviva are not 
obliged to pay more than this for any one claim/series of claims no matter how long it 
subsists. Im not persuaded there is any ambiguity in this regard, so I do not consider Aviva 
are liable to pay more than the policy limit towards Mr Ps claim purely because his policy 
renewed during his legal dispute.
Continuation of Claim
Mr Ps original claim concerned a property dispute with his neighbour, which was funded by 
Aviva. This resulted in a Tomlin order being signed by the parties in January 2018. Mr P later 
said that his neighbour had breached the Tomlin order, for which he wanted to pursue an 
application for an injunction to prevent any further breaches. In essence, this later cause of 
action would not exist if it were not for the initial claim that brought about the Tomlin order. 
The breach  of that order is simply a continuation of the circumstances that brought about the 
first claim  i.e. Mr P's neighbour's behaviour.
So, given that the subsequent action Mr P wanted to pursue arose from the original insured 
event  i.e. the property dispute with his neighbour  Im satisfied that Aviva have fairly 
categorised this claim as a continuation of the original claim, such that only one indemnity 
limit ought to apply in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Legal costs
Mr P submits that Aviva have unfairly deducted around £19,000 in legal costs from his 
indemnity limit, following the settlement of his original dispute with his neighbour. He says 
that Aviva agreed to settle the case following mediation without pursuing the other side for 
costs, but that they failed to inform him that this would result in the amount counting towards 
his overall indemnity limit for the claim. 
Ive listened to the call recordings of discussions that were had between Aviva and Mr Ps 
legal professionals during the mediation of his claim on 31 January 2018. It came to light 
that Mr Ps neighbour was not actually insured (despite at first saying he was) and that it 
may therefore be difficult to recover their costs if they went to trial. Aviva asked what they 
would advise a privately paying client in these circumstances, to which the solicitor said:
If Mr P was a privately paying client you would advise him that the risk if he pursued 
this to trial the costs would increase substantially and those are likely to be 
unrecovered costs, or costs that are very difficult to recover.
If he was a privately paying client, I would say see if you could get something out of 
them on costs. But if the bottom line was the offer weve got is the best youre going to 
get, then I would probably advise him to accept that, on the basis that he is 
throwing good money after bad if he proceeds all the way to trial [My emphasis 
added].
So, based on the advice of the legal professionals, it was agreed that it was best to settle 
and for each party to cover their own costs. I appreciate that Aviva may not have explicitly 
told Mr P that this would result in his legal costs being paid from his indemnity limit. But his 
policy specifically states that Aviva will pay your costs and expenses toseek [a] legal remedy which is precisely what was being covered by Aviva in these circumstances. So, 
given that this is provided for in the policy wording, I dont think it was necessary for the 
insurer to specifically tell Mr P that this would count towards his indemnity limit. And in any 
event  given that it was agreed that each party would cover their own costs  I think he 
ought reasonably to have known that such legal costs would be covered under his legal 
expenses insurance claim, as Aviva had given no indication that they would be covering his 
costs as an ex gratia payment.
Mr P says he would not have agreed to Aviva settling the claim through mediation if hed 
have known the costs would count towards his indemnity limit. But this was not his decision 
to make in these circumstances. The policy states that:
If, in the lawyers opinion
Your claim has reached a point where incurring further costs and expenses would not 
be reasonable then we will not pay any further costs and expenses towards it.
Given that Mr Ps lawyers had advised Aviva that they would unlikely be able to recover 
costs from the other side, and that it would have been disproportionate to pursue such costs, 
they would have been entitled to withdraw funding if Mr P had insisted on proceeding to trial. 
The policy also states:
If you do not accept a payment into court or any offer where the lawyer advises that 
this is a reasonable settlement, we may refuse to pay any further costs or expenses. 
Mr Ps lawyers had advised that the best course of action was to settle the dispute at the 
mediation stage. So even if Aviva had told Mr P that his legal costs would be paid out of his 
indemnity limit, he would not have been in a position to insist on proceeding to trial as the 
insurer would have been within their rights under the policy to cease any further funding of 
the claim in light of the advice from Mr Ps lawyers. Court action is expensive, and it's 
unreasonable to expect an insurer to bear the cost of running a case that they have been 
advised is disproportionate to pursue  and which the policyholder would also be unlikely to 
pursue at his own cost in the absence of legal expenses insurance.
I sympathise with the difficult circumstances Mr P has experienced with his neighbour, and I 
appreciate this has been a difficult time for him. But I'm not persuaded Aviva has mishandled 
his legal expenses claim in these circumstances. So for these reasons, I do not uphold this 
complaint.
In any event, I note that Mr P still has over half of his indemnity limit remaining, should he 
wish to pursue any further legal action against his neighbour for breaching the Tomlin order 
(provided such action is covered by the policy terms and conditions, of course).
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.Jack Ferris
Ombudsman