DRN-3132313
The complaint
Ms S has complained about the way that AXA Insurance UK Plc handled a claim under a 
flats insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms S owns a flat in a block. The freeholder insured the building. It appointed a managing 
agent who amongst other things handled the insurance of the building.
In March 2014 a leak from a washing machine in someone elses flat caused minor damage 
to Ms Ss flat. In April 2015 the freeholder made a claim on Ms Ss behalf to AXA after water 
came through her ceiling from a different flat, causing a lot of damage. In July 2015 there 
was another leak. The causes of the leaks were fixed in August 2015. AXA accepted the 
claim in September 2015. Its loss adjuster inspected the damage in early 2016.
In 2016 the freehold interest in the block was transferred to a new owner.
AXA was waiting for estimates from the managing agent before proceeding further. It 
received one estimate in December 2016 and its loss adjuster chased several times for the 
second. As it didnt receive this, AXA closed the claim in May 2017.
Ms S says no-one from AXA contacted her throughout this time to progress the claim. She 
appointed a solicitor to help her with this in July 2018. The solicitor told AXA how Ms Ss flat 
was damp and mouldy because no repairs had been carried out. They also said this was 
affecting Ms Ss health and damaging her possessions. 
In October 2019 the solicitor sent AXA a surveyors report and a quote for the repairs. In 
May 2020 the solicitor threatened AXA with legal proceedings. AXA reopened the claim in 
July 2020.
Ms S brought her complaint to this service. I issued a provisional decision upholding Ms Ss 
complaint. An extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
Firstly Ive looked at whether cover was in place at the time of the incidents in 2014 and 
2015. It appears the freehold was transferred to a new owner in February 2016, so it is 
unlikely that it would have cancelled the policy any earlier than that. I can see that 
according to AXAs records the policy was in place until it was cancelled on 8 March 2016. 
So Ms S was covered for the damage caused by the three leaks subject to the terms of the 
policy.
This was a relatively complicated claim. It required AXA to communicate and coordinate 
activities with a range of interested parties  the freeholder, the freeholders broker, the 
managing agent and Ms S. The failure of the managing agents to supply a second quote 
as requested by AXA made it difficult for AXA to validate the first quote. The transfer of the 
freehold interest meant that the company that had originally made the claims wasnt 
interested in following them up and the new owner appeared to be equally disinterested.
However all this time, as AXA was aware, Ms S was living in damp conditions. She wasnt 
the policyholder  that was the previous freeholder. But as a leaseholder she has an 
insurable interest and so is able to make a claim under the policy as an individual for 
whose benefit the policy was arranged. As such, it seems to me that AXA treated her 
unfairly by effectively abandoning her just because it hadnt received a second estimate for 
the repairs from the managing agent. If it had told Ms S this, she might well have been 
able to provide a second estimate for the damage to her flat. In any event, as AXA was 
aware from its loss adjusters visit, Ms S didnt want a cash settlement - she wanted AXAs 
contractor to carry out the repairs. Its loss adjuster had previously approved the schedule 
of repairs. So it seems to me there was no good reason why it didnt go ahead and arrange 
for its contractor to do them when it became clear that a second estimate was unlikely to 
be forthcoming. If it had done this, Ms S wouldnt have had to spend several years living in 
damp and mouldy conditions. AXA should now without further delay either pay Ms Ss 
costs to carry out the repairs or appoint its own contractor to do the repairs.
AXA has since told this service that it thinks the damage to Ms Ss flat got worse because 
of delay on the part of the managing agents in repairing the leaks. This isnt something 
which AXA raised in 2015 when it accepted the claim or in 2016 after its loss adjuster 
inspected the damage. So I dont think its fair of it to raise that at this stage as a reason 
why its not liable for all the damage. In any event after several years delay on its part it 
will be almost impossible to say what damage, if any, was caused by the delay in repairing 
the leaks (the first of which was relatively minor in any event) and what was been caused 
by its long delay in repairing the property.
There is no contents cover under the policy. That means that Ms S isnt covered for 
damage to her contents that was caused by the original leaks. It seems to me likely though 
that some damage might well have been caused by the damp and mouldy conditions in 
which Ms S has been living since 2015 as a result of delays on AXAs part. Its right that 
AXA should be liable for that damage.
The original freeholder provided Ms S with two dehumidifiers to dry out her flat. They 
didnt do the job effectively possibly because her flat hadnt been stripped for drying and 
Ms S couldnt afford to use them for long. Nonetheless they were the only thing available 
to her, so she used them for some time, running up increased electricity costs. Its right 
that AXA should reimburse her for those additional costs as it would normally arrange to 
dry the property, paying for electricity used to do so, in the normal course of a well-
managed claim.
In an attempt to get the claim moving again Ms S commissioned a surveyors report which 
her solicitor sent AXA. I think this was key to AXA reopening the claim. So AXA should 
reimburse the cost of this report with interest.
Ms S also incurred substantial legal costs. This service often doesnt require insurers to 
refund legal costs but each case is taken on its own merits. As I said above, AXA shouldnt 
have abandoned Ms S such that three years after the last leak she, reasonably on this 
occasion in my view, felt she had to instruct a solicitor to chase it. If AXA had given Ms S a 
final response to her complaint, that would have included information about referring her 
complaint to this service and that might well have limited her legal costs which she says 
are £7,000. I also believe some of those costs were incurred because of failures on the 
part of the managing agent and in referring the complaint to this service. So I cant then 
fairly make AXA refund the total Ms S has asked for. I think a pragmatic approach to this is 
required. Keeping in mind the fact the solicitor chased AXA over a long period of time, I 
think AXA reimbursing £1,500 of Ms Ss costs would be fair.Ive seen photos showing the poor living conditions that Ms S has had to put up with since 
2015. Shes provided medical evidence that these conditions have adversely affected her 
health. She hasnt been able to have her grandchildren to stay in her flat because of the 
damp. In addition the lack of a substantive response from AXA even when her solicitor 
was threatening legal action must have been very distressing for her. Taking all these 
factors into account, I think AXA should pay her £1,500 compensation for the trouble and 
upset its caused her.
AXA didnt respond to the provisional decision. Ms S accepted it and sent us a copy of her 
electricity bills.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party objected to my provisional decision. I see no reason to change it and my 
provisional findings will now form part of this final decision.
Well forward a copy of Ms Ss electricity bills to AXA for it to consider.
Putting things right
To put things right I think AXA should:
either pay Ms Ss costs to carry out the repairs or appoint its own contractor to do the 
repairs;
consider the damage to Ms Ss contents caused by the delay with the claim;
consider Ms Ss increased electricity bills due to the use of dehumidifiers to dry her flat;
reimburse the cost of Ms Ss surveyors report plus interest* from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement;
pay £1,500 towards Ms Ss legal costs; and
pay compensation of £1,500 to Ms S for the trouble and upset it caused her.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amount specified and from/to the 
dates stated. If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from any interest due to Ms S, it should tell her how much its 
taken off. It should also give her a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do what is set out in the 
section above headed Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman