DRN-1567675
The complaint
Mr K complains that AXA France IARD ('Axa') mis-sold him a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance ('PPI') policy in 1999 when he applied for a store card.
What happened
Mr K said the policy was mis-sold because it wasnt suitable for him and because he didnt 
need it or ask for it. He says it was added without his knowledge and that he suffered from 
asthma when he bought the policy.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld because Mr Ks asthma meant he 
would be excluded from getting sickness cover if his sick leave was caused by the asthma.
Axa disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. It 
added the following points:
the illness was most likely manageable with medication;
there was nothing to suggest the severity of the condition or whether Mr K had to 
take any time off work for it;
it is unlikely Mr K would have needed to claim for his medical condition;
he still would have been able to claim for any other medical condition.
 
I issued my provisional decision in January 2020 where I explained why I thought this 
complaint should not be upheld. We sent a copy of my provisional decision to both parties 
and invited them to produce any new evidence or comments. Neither party made any 
comments or produced any new evidence, so I see no reason to change the conclusions I 
made in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ks case.
I am going to say this complaint should not be upheld. I know this will be a disappointing 
result for Mr K so I'll explain why.
Having seen the store card application form which Mr K signed, it refers to "Account 
Cover" and has a separate place which Mr K also signed to consent to buy PPI. So I 
think Axa made it clear that Mr K didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take 
it out by signing for it  although I can understand why he may not be able to 
remember this.
Mr K was eligible to buy the policy.The policy wasn't recommended so Axa had to make sure Mr K received enough 
information which was clear, fair and not misleading so he could make an informed 
decision.
Its possible the information given to Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong because 
he told us he would only get sick pay at his employer's discretion. It also looks like 
PPI was affordable at the time of the sale. So I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put him from off taking out the cover.
Axa should also have pointed out the things the policy did not cover (the exclusions). 
And it is clear from a sample of the policy which Axa says would have been used at 
around that time, that Mr K would not have been able to claim for his pre-existing 
medical condition. However, it isn't clear how his condition affected him, whether it 
was controlled by medication or whether he would have had to take sick leave 
because of it. I do accept Mr K does have asthma  but I haven't seen any evidence 
about how badly his illness affected him to show the exclusion in the PPI policy 
would have affected him adversely. So taking everything into account, I do not intend 
to uphold this complaint.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman