DRN-2390172
The complaint
Ms B and Mr B are unhappy with the way British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) handled their 
annual boiler service appointments.
What happened
Ms B and Mr B had HomeCare Two home emergency cover, including an annual boiler 
service, with BG. For ease, Ill refer only to Ms B throughout my decision.
Ms B arranged an annual boiler service appointment with BG. During the process of 
arranging the appointment and BG completing the service, Ms B says that it:
twice cancelled the appointment at short notice;
published an incorrect telephone number;
kept her waiting on the phone for long periods, and
sent misleading policy renewal information.
She complained to BG, which offered her £30 by way of apology for rescheduling 
appointments at short notice, and a credit of £10 to her account for the time spent on hold. 
Ms B didnt think its offer went far enough and she also complained that it hadnt dealt with 
her complaint properly. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Bs complaint. She thought that BG had acted in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy; it had provided correct phone numbers on policy 
documents; the information it provided about renewal was clear, and its offer was 
reasonable by way of apology for the inconvenience of rescheduled appointments and time 
on hold. Our investigator explained that we couldnt consider Ms Bs concerns about BGs 
complaint handling activity.
Ms B didnt agree. She thought BG hid information within long terms and conditions, and that 
it shouldve planned better for winter appointments. Ms B also felt that BG shouldve made 
sure its website was up to date with phone numbers.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Bs complaint for broadly the same reasons as our 
investigator. Ill explain.
Firstly, Ms B is unhappy with the way BG handled her complaint. I understand that shes now 
aware complaint handling isnt a regulated activity and, therefore, falls outside my remit for 
consideration. So, I wont be looking into that issue.
Annual service
The terms and conditions of Ms Bs policy state an annual service is,
a check in each period of agreement to ensure that your gas boileris working safely and 
in line with the relevant laws and regulations. See page 28 for more details.
The policy also says,
Your annual service may be more, or less, than 12 months after your last service visit.
In periods of local or national high demand for our services (such as cold weather), we 
prioritise breakdowns and may need to rearrange your annual service.
So, the terms of the policy allow BG to rearrange a routine boiler service if an emergency 
takes priority, and I think thats reasonable. I understand that it wouldve been frustrating for 
it to happen twice to Ms B, but both rearranged appointments were in the middle of the 
winter period, so I can see why BG wouldve had a greater need to reschedule.  
Ms B thinks BG hid this information in a long policy document, but I dont agree. Its 
mentioned three times in the policy and directs to the more detailed information on page 28. 
And looking at the brief document provided at each renewal, summarising the policy 
information, there is specific reference to the timing of annual services. I think BG made the 
information available to Ms B and, although it was entitled to reschedule the appointments, it 
made a reasonable offer of compensation for the inconvenience caused. Im satisfied that 
BG did enough here.
Phone number and waiting times
Ms B felt inconvenienced because BG published the wrong phone number on its website, 
and it kept her waiting on hold for lengthy periods. BG apologised and offered a credit of £10 
to her account for the delays answering her calls. 
While BGs error on its website may have caused inconvenience in the moment, the correct 
phone number was available to Ms B on her own policy documents. I understand the point 
she makes that a quick look at the website should be easy, but it doesnt change the fact 
that BG made the correct information available to her as its customer, and she also had the 
option of booking an appointment online. So, Im satisfied that the inconvenience caused by 
BGs mistake was minimal. 
I can see why BGs phone lines may have been busy during the winter period, but Ms B 
thinks it should resource better for those times. I have no reason to doubt that BG resources 
appropriately, and its not my place to question that. However, I can consider the impact on 
Ms B of being unable to get through quickly. Theres no indication that her call was about an 
emergency, so I think the delay answering wouldve been an inconvenience rather than a 
cause for significant concern. Im satisfied that BG responded appropriately to her complaint 
about the call waiting times and its offer of a £10 credit was fair in the circumstances. I dont 
think any further action is warranted.
Policy renewal information
Ms B says the policy renewal pricing isnt clear. BG explained that the pricing options are 
given in the renewal information. Ive looked at the policy renewal and I can see that it 
explains the cover offered and directs Ms B to her online account to obtain any further 
information she needed. Doing so would also have allowed her to amend her cover to suit 
her requirements. So, while she thinks that the renewal price was too much and misleading, 
I cant see that BG did anything wrong here. Overall, I dont think BG did anything wrong in respect of the policy renewal information and 
Im satisfied that it made a fair offer by way of apology to Ms B for the inconvenience caused 
when it rearranged appointments and for the call waiting times. I wont be asking BG to do 
any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman