DRN-3793392
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the service hes received from I Go 4 Ltd. (IGO4), after he purchased a 
car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H purchased a car insurance policy via IGO4 online. After the purchase, he requested his 
documents be sent by post as offered as an option by IGO4.
In response to Mr Hs request, IGO4 emailed Mr H to say he could access his documents in 
other ways, such as online, or to let them know if he still wanted a postal copy. Mr H 
confirmed he still wanted a postal copy.
In response to that confirmation, IGO4 again outlined the other ways in which documents 
could be obtained, and again asked Mr H to let them know if he still wanted a copy. Mr H 
confirmed, again, he still wanted a postal copy.
Mr H didnt receive the documents. He contacted IGO4 to make changes to his policy, and 
also made IGO4 aware that he still hadnt received his documents via post. Mr H made a 
complaint about the service he had received and the call wait times attempting to get 
through.
IGO4 recognised they had received Mr Hs multiple documents requests and had since 
arranged for these to be actioned. But they said call wait times were outside their control. 
They said overall that they hadnt been able to identify any poor service.
Mr H remained unhappy and approached this service.
Our investigator upheld Mr Hs complaint surrounding the documents issue. She said Mr H 
had been inconvenienced by having to request documents on multiple occasions. She 
therefore recommended IGO4 pay Mr H £50 compensation.
IGO4 didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and for the same 
reasons.
Mr H asked for his documents via post on several occasions  IGO4 accepts it received 
those requests. Mr H confirmed he still wanted them via post when IGO4 responded to his 
requests outlining other methods they were available, and asking if he still required postal 
documents.
Mr H first requested his documents be sent by post on the day he purchased his insurance 
policy. The first point IGO4 actioned this request was around six weeks after they were first 
requested, and after Mr H had requested them several times  and later raised a complaint 
about the service he had received.
IGO4 says Mr H had access to the documents via his online account so they dont think 
compensation is warranted. 
I dont dispute the documents were available by other means. But the point here is that IGO4 
offer the documents via post for those customers that want them, and Mr H wanted them via 
post - and had to make several requests. And IGO4 ultimately delayed actioning those 
requests for around six weeks. So, regardless of them being available online, Mr H was still 
caused inconvenience. And I agree with our investigator that Mr H should be compensated 
£50 for this.
Mr H has also let this service know that he still hasnt receive a postal copy of his 
documents.
Mr H is also unhappy with the wait times to get through when he called to make changes to 
his policy. I recognise this wouldve been inconvenient for Mr H to have to wait, however, call 
volumes are outside of IGO4s control. And they apologised for this in their final response.
In any event, Im satisfied the £50 compensation Im directing IGO4 to pay Mr H fairly 
compensates him for the overall inconvenience hes incurred.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct I Go 4 Ltd. to:
Pay Mr H £50 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman