DRN-3029059
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
2007. Mrs B says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Aqua, (Aqua) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include much of 
Mrs Bs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here. 
Mrs B has told us she was working less than 16 hours per week and earning around £1000 
at the time as a cleaner. The application information submitted by Mrs B when she took the 
card says she was earning around £10,000. Mrs B has told us shed been with her employer 
for a year. From what shes told us, she had £600 in savings she couldve used to pay her 
card with if she couldnt work but she wouldnt have been entitled to redundancy pay and 
only to statutory sick pay.
Mrs B has told us the sale took place by post. From what Aqua has sent us, the application 
for the card and PPI was initially made online, with the credit agreement, containing printed 
details of her application, being sent to Mrs B to sign and return  probably by post.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the mis-sale complaint, but my colleague thought Aquas offer 
to pay back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission 
and profit share Mrs B paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs Bs representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Bs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Aqua should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that Aquas offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused, is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Mrs B has said the PPI was just included on her card. Aqua hasnt been able to give us 
details of the screens Mrs B saw when she applied for her card online. But what it has 
provided makes me think on balance its more likely Aqua made it clear Mrs B didnt 
have to take the PPI and she chose to take it. For example, the credit agreement she 
signed to take the card had a separate box for her to tick and sign if she wanted the PPI. 
The box said: I wish to purchase Credit Card Repayments Cover and Mrs B ticked and 
signed in the box, separately from signing for the card itself. The summary of her online 
application Aqua sent Mrs B also described the PPI as something shed requested.
Aqua didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B, so it didnt have to check the PPI was right or 
suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs B enough clear and timely information so she 
could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Aqua gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found she chose to take it, and I dont think she wouldve done 
so without at a least a broad understanding of what the cover provided - so it looks to me 
like she wanted this type of cover. It also looks like the benefit couldve been useful to 
her. Her savings and work benefits were limited, so she didnt have much to fall back on 
if she couldnt work. Shes also told us she was financially stretched, so it looks like she 
couldnt easily afford to lose income if unemployment or disability stopped her working.
Mrs B couldnt claim for work absences if due to any medical condition she knew about 
at the start  and the policy limited payments for back pain in some circumstances and 
had more onerous evidential requirements for it in other situations. But the health issue 
Mrs B has told us shed seen a doctor for and took painkillers for happened about ten 
years before the sale, Mrs B has told us it had never kept her off work, and Ive nothing 
to suggest it caused further or ongoing issues of concern in the years close to the sale. 
With all this in mind, and given what she could still claim for, on balance I dont think her 
decision to take the cover wouldve changed if shed been told more about how the terms 
would affect her ability to claim for this health issue. And she hasnt told us of having had 
any other health issues the policy mightve made it hard for her to claim for. Also nothing 
about her occupation or employment wouldve made it hard for her to claim.
In light of all Ive said above, the cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs B and the 
income details provided on her application make me think she was eligible for it. I also 
think it unlikely she wouldve agreed to it without a broad idea of the cost. So, bearing in 
mind the benefit it could pay, and having thought carefully about all Mrs B has told us 
about her circumstances and other means, Im not persuaded being told more about the 
policy cost wouldve changed her decision to take the cover. Taking everything into 
account, I dont think she wouldve declined the cover had Aqua done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations or exclusions on claims relating to mental health 
conditions, in light of Mrs Bs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations 
and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think 
she wouldve still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy.
Overall, I consider Mrs B wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what its 
likely she thought she was getting - and what I have about her circumstances makes me think the cover couldve provided a useful benefit at what couldve been a difficult time if she 
had lost her job or become too sick to work. And, in those circumstances, I think she 
wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Mrs Bs representatives have raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which they say apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and that the duty of utmost good faith meant Aqua should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.
Mrs Bs representatives havent said how these apply to the specific facts and circumstances 
of Mrs Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. Ive thought about 
these things and how they might apply in Mrs Bs case. But these points dont persuade me 
to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of this 
complaint. This means Aqua doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness. Having done so, Ive decided Aqua should have disclosed the commission it 
received and that Aquas offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Aqua didnt tell Mrs B about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Aqua and Mrs B was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Aqua didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case; 
I dont think Aqua acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs B, because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipIm now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mrs Bs representatives have made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary they have said Mrs B should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: Aqua failed to tell Mrs B about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value, they say I should find that Mrs B wouldnt have taken the policy 
had she known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all the 
premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mrs B in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Aqua not disclosing the high level of 
commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mrs Bs representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Aquas failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for Aqua to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mrs B paid for her PPI policy. I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mrs B 
with the policy Ive concluded above she would still have taken if Aqua had done everything 
it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Aquas offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances.
 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mrs Bs complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Bank of Scotland Plc should pay Mrs B an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) - if 
it hasnt already done so.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 November 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman