DRN-1975067
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy with how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) handled a 
claim made under her car insurance policy following an accident.
What happened
On 20 January 2020, Miss C was involved in a single vehicle collision with a barrier following 
a skid on an icy road. Miss C made a claim to LV under her car insurance policy. 
Miss C visited one of LVs recommended repairers on 22 January 2020. Miss C decided not 
to use the garage as the engineer was rude and aggressive. Instead Miss C used a different 
garage for the repairs. The garage Miss C chose wasnt on LVs list of recommended 
repairers. As Miss C was using a garage that wasnt on LVs list of repairers  Miss C 
incurred an additional £200 excess on top of the £400 excess that was applicable.
Miss Cs car was repaired by 19 February 2020. There was a delay in the repairs being 
undertaken due to an error in LV sending the authorisation to an incorrect email address.
Unhappy Miss C complained to LV. Miss C considered LV had caused unnecessary delays 
in authorising the repairs and Miss C was unhappy with the service she had received from 
LVs approved garage initially.
LV accepted that there was an unnecessary delay in it authorising the repairs and 
acknowledged the poor service Miss C had received from its approved garage. To put things 
right LV waived the additional £200 excess Miss C was charged for using a garage that 
wasnt on its list of recommended repairers. And LV explained it would feedback Miss Cs 
concerns to the garage in question.
Miss C considers charging an additional excess for using a different garage is unfair and is 
illegal. Miss C also doesnt consider waiving the excess is fair compensation for the delays 
and service she has received.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and thought LVs offer to waive the 
additional £200 excess was fair compensation for the errors and delays caused and for the 
poor service Miss C received. 
As Miss C disagreed, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and broadly for the same reasons. Ill explain 
why.
I have seen a copy of Miss Cs insurance policy schedule. It states:
LV= recommended repairers
You can choose which repairer you want to use from our list of recommended 
garages. If you choose a garage that isn't on our list, you need to pay an extra
£200 excess, plus any other excess shown under 'Excesses that apply'. 
So if a garage is used for the repairs that isnt on LVs list of recommended repairers, a £200 
excess is applicable. This isnt an unusual or unfair term and is a common feature of motor 
insurance policies. The reason for this is that insurers get a preferential rate for repairs by 
using their own repairer. If a customer wants to use their own garage it usually costs more 
for the insurer, and this is why insurers charge an additional excess.
However it is clear Miss C felt she had been treated poorly by LVs recommended repairer 
and didnt want to use this garage. This resulted her choosing another garage for the repairs.
When Miss C raised her concerns to LV, it acknowledged the poor service Miss C received 
from its recommended garage. And it also admitted that there were delays in it authorising 
the repairs by around a week or so. 
Because of this, LV has waived the £200 excess fee that was applicable as a way to put 
things right for Miss C. Miss C could have used another garage from LVs recommended list 
 which wouldnt have incurred a further excess, but to try and resolve the issue around the 
poor service and delays it offered to waive the £200 excess. This seems fair. And I am 
satisfied that when Miss C chased LV to say the garage hadnt received the email from LV 
authorising the repairs, LV acted promptly in identifying the error regarding the incorrect 
email address being used and re-sent it straight away. So while there was a delay, I think 
LVs offer to waive the £200 excess fee takes its error into account and also recognises the 
inconvenience caused. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest Miss C suffered any 
further financial loss as a result of the week delay LV caused.
Miss C has said charging customers to use a different garage is illegal. And Miss C has 
quoted EU Law citing Motor Vehicle block exemptions regulations EC1400/2002.
I have read the relevant law Miss C has referred to  but it is around manufacturers being 
obligated to ensure information is available for any independent repair shop to be able to 
perform repairs and services in relation to manufacturers vehicles. This is to ensure that it 
isnt only certain garages being able to perform certain repairs  which would restrict where 
customers could repair their vehicles. But this isnt what happened in Miss Cs case  as 
either LVs recommended garage or the garage Miss C chose were able to carry out the 
required repairs. So this isnt relevant to Miss Cs complaint. 
I note Miss C explained that she wasnt offered a hire car while her car was being repaired. 
But this is an optional extra that Miss C hadnt taken out. It is something that Miss C would 
have had to have chosen when taking out the policy. 
On Miss Cs policy schedule it states the Optional extras Miss C hadnt chosen included; 
Motor legal expenses, Basic hire car, £100,000 personal accident cover and Breakdown 
cover.
If Miss C had taken out Basic hire car, LV would have given Miss C a hire car while hers 
was being fixed  but as Miss C hadnt taken out and paid for this optional extra, Im satisfied 
LV didnt need to provide Miss C with a hire car.Finally I note that Miss C had concerns that a previous claim with LV had delays also. To be 
clear, I have not considered that claim within this decision. Within this decision I have only 
looked at the complaint regarding the insurance claim as a result of the incident and damage 
caused to Miss Cs vehicle in January 2020. If Miss C is unhappy with LV regarding a 
previous claim, then Miss C needs to raise that to LV separately. 
Overall, I am satisfied that while things didnt go as they should have done, LVs offer to 
waive the additional £200 excess is fair and takes into account the delays and poor service 
Miss C received.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds offer to waive 
the additional £200 excess as a result of the delays and poor service Miss C experienced, is 
fair. 
I dont require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman