DRN-4356617
The complaint
Miss B has complained Santander UK plc wont refund her £3,350 for cash machine 
withdrawals she didnt make. They also closed her account.
What happened
Miss B came to the ombudsman servicer in June 2023 after Santander told her they wouldnt 
be refunding her for disputed cash machine withdrawals. They confirmed these transactions 
took place from 8 April to 8 June 2023 and amounted to £3,350. These started after Miss B 
was sent a new card and PIN. The first transaction with this new card and PIN was the first 
disputed cash machine withdrawal in April 2023 for £100.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence which Santander provided. He felt it was most likely 
Miss B had carried out these transactions herself and wouldnt ask them to refund her.
Still unhappy, Miss B has asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint. She was unable 
to provide any further evidence to support her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Miss Bs complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
To help me come to a decision, Ive reviewed the evidence Santander provided as well as 
what Miss B has told us. I appreciate her saying that £3,350 is a lot of money to lose which 
she cant afford.
However I dont believe these transactions were carried out by anyone else. I say this 
because:
These transactions only started after Miss B was sent a new card and PIN after a 
previous fraudulent claim on her account.
During the period of 8 April to 8 June when these disputed cash machine withdrawals 
took place, I can see there was at least one other cash machine withdrawal carried 
out which Miss B has not disputed. Theres another cash machine withdrawal on 
9 June, the day after the disputed withdrawals apparently stopped.
Miss B has told us she retained her card throughout. The evidence supports this.
This would mean that a third party had taken Miss Bs debit card 19 different times 
and replaced it. This would be extremely unlikely behaviour without Miss B being 
aware and having consented to the transactions.
The cash machines used by Miss B in the period before April 2023 are the same 
cash machines used for the disputed withdrawals.
Miss B had a history of fraudulent claims with Santander for the two accounts shed 
held with them. There had been at least 12 different claims in the period 2021 to 
June 2023.
Santander wrote to Miss B in October 2023 to warn her that due to the high number of fraud 
claims that you have raised on your account in the last 12 months, we may impose our right 
to withdraw banking facilities if the level of risk continues. Santander subsequently closed 
Miss Bs account and I can understand why.
Im sorry to tell Miss B that I wont be asking Santander to refund her as I believe she made 
these cash withdrawals herself.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Miss Bs complaint against 
Santander UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman