DRN-1601362
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, lent irresponsibly when 
it approved his credit card application.
What happened
In December 2017, Mr A applied online for a credit card with Barclays. In the application, 
Mr A said he was self-employed with an income of £28,000. Barclays completed a credit 
search and assessed the information available. It approved Mr As credit card application 
with a credit limit of £800.
Mr A has said he started struggling with his finances in 2016 as a result of mental health 
issues and that he wasnt working at the time of applying for the card. He has also said that 
he had a poor credit history and a CCJ against his name. He thinks Barclays didnt do 
enough to check his financial situation before giving him the credit. Mr A wants his debt 
written off and a refund of all charges.
Barclays didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly. It said it used the information he had provided 
and completed the necessary checks to ensure the lending was affordable. Unhappy with 
the response from Barclays, Mr A brought his complaint to our service. An investigator 
looked into the matter. She found that Barclays had lent responsibly and didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Mr A disagreed with our investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When lenders look at any application to borrow money, they need to make sure there are 
proportionate checks in place. The checks should ensure that any credit thats approved is 
affordable and sustainable for the borrower. Theres no set list of checks a lender must 
complete and its up to each business to decide how it wants to approach assessing 
applications. But I think it is fair to expect them to consider the information provided to them 
in the application by the borrower, a review of their credit history and any other information it 
may already know about that person. So, what I need to consider is whether I think the 
checks completed by Barclays were reasonable based on the credit it was being asked to 
provide.
Mr A has said he was unemployed at the time of making the application and not receiving 
any income. He says Barclays should have checked this before giving him the credit. 
Barclays has told us that, at the time of the application, it wasnt part of its process to verify 
incomes provided on applications. The fact that it didnt validate his employment status 
doesnt mean Barclays has been irresponsible  I dont think it is unreasonable for a lender 
to rely on information it has been given on an application when deciding if credit should be 
provided. Im not persuaded that Barclays has done anything wrong here.
Barclays explained that part of its lending process is to review details of a persons 
expenditure in order to check whether the credit was affordable. It has provided details of the 
information obtained from Mr A and this shows that, after the payment of necessary bills and 
expenses, he had a reasonable amount of disposable income. So, on that basis Barclays 
said it felt Mr A could afford this lending. As before, I think it is reasonable for Barclays to 
have used the details provided by Mr A about his outgoings when deciding whether to lend 
to him.
In relation to his credit history, Barclays has said it completed a credit search on Mr A but 
this didnt show up any delinquency at the time of the application. It said there were historical 
missed payments on his file, but these had been settled by the time he applied for the card. 
And Barclays has said that the CCJ Mr A has referred to had also been satisfied prior to the 
application - so this wasnt an outstanding debt and therefore this wasnt a concern.
 
The decision on whether to provide credit to an individual is ultimately down to the lender 
and the fact that Mr A may have had some historical payment issues doesnt necessarily 
mean he shouldnt have been considered for the credit card. Barclays has shown that it 
followed a process to see if Mr A met its lending criteria for the credit and Im satisfied that 
these checks were proportionate, based on the amount of credit being requested. I consider 
that the lending was done responsibly.
Mr A has told us that Barclays were aware of his health issues and so it should have done 
more to help him. So, he wants his credit card debt to be written off and a refund of the 
charges he has incurred. Barclays has said Mr A didnt make it aware of his health issues 
until sometime after the application and, from looking at the contact notes on his account this 
would appear to be the case. If Mr A had told Barclays, I think its likely a note would have 
been placed on his file. From what I can see the first notification to Barclays of this issue was 
at the time of the complaint. Im not persuaded that Barclays has acted incorrectly by 
providing this credit or for continuing to allow him to utilise this facility. I therefore dont agree 
it has to write off this debt.
Ive seen that Barclays has refunded the late payment fees and charges Mr A incurred once 
it was made aware of the problem which I think is the right thing to do. And it has provided 
details of its support team for Mr A to contact to get help with his financial situation  I would 
encourage him to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
Jenny Giles  
Ombudsman