DRN-2899407
The complaint
Mr N complains about how Scottish Widows Limited (SW) managed contributions to his 
pension for the 2019/20 tax year.
What happened
Mr N said he sent contributions to his SW pension on 3 April 2020. His bank confirmed they 
had been sent as instant payments on that day. But SW was refusing to credit the 
contributions to his pension for the 2019/20 tax year and was showing them as received into 
his pension on 6 April 2020. He was told SWs website referred to a latest receipt time of 
close of business on 3 April but didnt define what that meant. Also, it hadnt sent out any 
advance notification to this effect. He didnt think they could end the tax year just because it 
suited them. The consequence of not crediting to the 2019/20 tax year was that it affected 
his tax-free allowance.
SW said Mr N made two contributions to his pension on 3 April 2020. It said Mr N wanted 
these to be applied to his pension for the 2019/20 tax year ending on 5 April 2020. It said it 
didnt receive the contribution until after 5.40 pm on 3 April 2020. Its website said that 
Saturday and Sunday 4 and 5 April 2020 were not business days so the cut off date for 
making contributions was 5.40pm on Friday 3 April 2020. The contributions were therefore 
applied to his pension on Monday 6 April 2020. It didnt think it had made a mistake and 
didnt uphold the complaint. SW later said the contributions reached them at 19.18 on 3 April 
2020 which was after the cut off for the tax year end.
The investigator said he didnt think SW needed to take any action. He considered whether 
SW should credit the contributions as being received on 3 April 2020. It was standard 
industry practice for businesses to have a cut off time for payments when the tax year end 
fell over a weekend or bank holiday. It wasnt disputed that Mr N made the payment after the 
cut off time so the next working day that the money would realistically be processed was 
Monday 6 April 2020 which was the new tax year. Faster payments have a time frame of two 
hours so the contributions would need to have been sent before 3.40pm but they werent .He 
didnt think SW was deciding when the tax year ends but instead when it would need to 
receive money to process it and show it as credited to his pension before the tax year end.
Mr N didnt agree. He said that on the payments section of the website there was and 
remains no information to suggest a 5.40pm cut off time and he received no notification from 
them to explain this by email for example. The delay had not impacted SW but had a big 
impact for him, SW had responded to his complaint over a weekend so clearly did work over 
weekends and bank holidays, so this showed they could have processed the payment on the 
4 April 2020. SW said they didnt receive the payment until 6 April but that was false. Also, 
he had paid his tax bill this year on a Sunday the final day for payment. HMRC were happy 
to accept this so it seems unreasonable that SW should be able to make up their own 
policies to process customers tax related payments. 
The investigator didnt change his view. SW had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ns frustration. He wanted to make pension contributions in the 2019/20 
tax year, and these left his bank account and arrived with SW on 3 April 2020 but were not 
processed and shown as received into his account until 6 April which was the next tax year. 
However, that doesnt mean that SW has done something wrong. It was up to Mr N to make 
sure he sent his contributions in good time so that they would be received and credited to his 
pension account in good time for the tax year. 
His bank has confirmed he sent the contribution at 18.18 and 18.19pm on 3 April 2020. I 
think that is after the end of the working day. I say that because SWs website displays a 
variety of opening hours for different areas, but all are Monday to Friday and the latest that 
the working day is shown as ending in an area is 6pm. I think Mr N had too nigh an 
expectation that the payment would be received and credited to his pension in time. It would 
have been very optimistic to hope that contributions sent so late in the day would be 
received and processed so that they credited to his pension account over the weekend, 
rather than on the next working day which was 6 April.
I note SW has confirmed the money was received by it on 3 April 2020 it just wasnt 
processed into his pension account until the next working day which was Monday 6 April 
2020. I dont think SW was being unreasonable in not processing until the next working day 
and in any event this service cannot tell SW how to operate its business.
My view that Mr N had too high an expectation that the money would be processed in time is 
reinforced by HMRC. The provisions set out by HMRC in the pensions tax manual has a 
section setting out rules regarding member contributions made at the start or end of a tax 
year or pension input period. This says that: -
A contribution must not be treated as being made in the earlier tax year where ...
Payment using the Faster Payment Scheme was late because the member had 
initiated the payment with too high an expectation of that method, by reference to the 
agreements under which the payment was processed, and the pension schemes 
terms of accepting contributions...
The HMRC provisions show that simply receiving the contributions on 3 April wasnt enough 
for the contribution to be treated as being made to his pension in the 2019/20 tax year and 
that HMRC accepts schemes have their own terms for accepting contributions. In this case it 
seems they had to be received before 5.40pm on 3 April, but Mr N didnt send his 
contribution until after this time. 
Mr N says he wasnt sent a copy of SWs cut off time for the tax year end and while SW say 
it was on their website, it didnt suggest it was sent out. But I dont think he needed to be 
notified or aware of the notice. I say that because the contributions were sent after was the 
end of the business day on the last working day of the tax year. I think Mr N always had too 
high an expectation that the money would be credited to his account before 6 April 2020.
I note his comments that SW replied to his complaint on a non-working day. Even if that is 
the case that doesnt mean SW was ready and able to process banking receipts and credit 
pension accounts over the weekend. He says that he was able to pay HMRC over a 
weekend. That may be the case but that does not mean that SW had to operate in the same 
way. This service cannot tell SW how to operate its business and it is normal business practice for many insurance companies to apply daily deadlines by reference to which 
transactions are processed.
Mr N said it wasnt the SW cut off time or working hours that determined the end of the tax 
year. That is correct but Mr N needed to make sure the money was credited to his pension 
account before the end of the tax year. While the money left his bank account and was 
received by SW on 3 April, it was not processed by SW and credited to his account because 
it was received after the end of the working day. 
Mr N argues that surely the key time is when the money was received not when SW 
processed it. For the reasons given I dont agree.
So, while I understand why Mr N is frustrated, I dont think SW did anything wrong 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2021.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman