DRN-2013775
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably 
when dealing with her financial difficulties. She wants matters put right.
What happened
Mrs P had a mortgage with Standard Life and got into arrears. Mrs P felt that it didnt treat 
her fairly when she was in financial difficulties and didnt tell her about the litigation and 
arrears fees charged until she received a redemption statement. Mrs P also said that she 
didnt receive statements as an incorrect post code was used by Standard Life and she was 
abroad.
Mrs P complained to Standard Life. It said some of the fees were charged more than six 
years ago and so it was too late to complain. It went on to explain that arrears fees were 
permitted as extra work was caused when a consumer was in arrears and between 2018 
and 2019, arrears fees were charged as Mrs P failed to make any payment at all. Standard 
Life said it did instruct solicitors given the rising arrears, and only charged what it had been 
charged for possession proceedings  it pointed out that the mortgage offer accepted by 
Mrs P allowed it to claim the costs and she had been given a tariff of charges. Other issues 
were dealt with not raised as a complaint with this service within the final response letter. 
Standard Life also explained that as Mrs P lived abroad, its system was set up for UK 
addresses, but it was satisfied from her own comments to its staff that she had received 
monthly statements.
Mrs P complained to us and said that there wasnt any need for a solicitor to be instructed by 
Standard Life as a sale was underway. The investigators view was that the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. He said the arrears fees charged between March 2018 and May 2019 
were charged because Mrs P didnt make any payment and were allowed under the terms 
and conditions of the mortgage Mrs P accepted; the investigator felt the fees were fair and 
reasonable as they matched the tariff of charges and the work was necessary.
The investigator explained that the solicitors were instructed as the arrears were getting 
worse and the sale of the property had fallen through. A warning letter had been sent in 
November 2018 and Mrs P spoke to Standard Life a few weeks later and said the property 
was being sold; when the sale fell through, Standard Life instructed solicitors. He thought 
this was fair and reasonable and the costs charged were due from Mrs P.
Mrs P disagreed. She said it wasnt fair Standard Life wouldnt extend the mortgage term 
and no-one had considered the equity in the property. Mrs P also felt the property market in 
the UK wasnt fair and blamed Brexit for her situation. She complained that she wasnt 
offered internet banking or secure email and felt betrayed. An investigator explained that the 
refusal to extend the term was not something this service could consider and the view 
wouldnt change. Mrs P was given a number of opportunities to provide further information, 
but didnt do so. This service has a duty to resolve complaints in a timely way.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im only able to deal with the issues raised by this complaint; Im aware Mrs P raised other 
complaints (such as about the refusal to extend the mortgage term and arrears fees charged 
more than six years ago), but they werent brought to this service in time as has been 
explained to her by the investigator (and accepted by Mrs P). I note Mrs P complains about 
the property market and Brexit; this is outside Standard Lifes control. It isnt the role of this 
service to require a financial business to create internet banking or secure email if it doesnt 
choose to offer such a service; thats a matter for the commercial judgement of the business.
Dealing with the arrears fees charged between 2018 and 2019, Mrs P failed to make any 
payment at all for the relevant months. She was aware that the money was due and she was 
obliged to make payment under the terms and conditions of the mortgage. I can see from the 
evidence Mrs P said that she couldnt afford to pay, but equally the failure to pay caused 
Standard Life to do extra work, such as contact Mrs P. The fees were charged once a month 
and are permitted under the terms and conditions of the mortgage; the amount charged also 
matches the tariff of charges. I think its fair and reasonable for the fees to be charged.
Mrs P complains about the litigation fees.  First, she agreed to pay them under the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage and there was no need to get her permission in advance. But I 
can see a letter was sent to her warning her in November 2018 that Standard Life was 
looking to instruct solicitors. Mrs P says she didnt receive the letter due to the use of a 
postcode. Its relevant to note Mrs P lived abroad and she received other documents using 
the same address, such as statements. Also, documents can go missing in the post and I 
see the letter was later emailed to her before redemption. I also note that Mrs P was told on 
the phone by Standard Life, according to the contemporaneous notes on which I place 
weight, of the risk of litigation. The amount claimed is what the solicitors charged.
I also would point out that the situation was getting worse, and lenders are expected to take 
action in such circumstances. Mrs P wasnt paying and the arrears were increasing; this was 
reducing the equity, which wasnt certain as property prices fluctuate. The property had 
failed to sell over a long period and several buyers had pulled out during the process. Until a 
completion date was set, Standard Life wasnt in a position to be confident that the property 
would sell; once it was, it stopped the litigation  this is fair and reasonable. Im satisfied that 
it was fair and reasonable for Standard Life to instruct solicitors and charge Mrs P.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 
2 October 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman