DRN-2421893
The complaint
Mr H complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE have declined his claim unfairly. 
What happened
In July 2019, Mr H became responsible for two cats through a cat protection company. One 
of the cats (cat A) had a special diet due to a hereditary gut condition, and Mr H was given 
medication to mitigate its effects. 
During their registration appointment in August, the cats general health conditions were 
discussed. It was acknowledged that the medication cat A was on was adequate. Based on 
this visit, Mr H says he was advised to take out insurance with pre-existing condition cover, 
so he researched and took out this policy, underwritten by Great Lakes, which includes 
cover for pre-existing conditions.  
Shortly after, cat A became unwell. He underwent a procedure relating to his pre-existing 
condition which was successful. Following this, Mr H was advised to adjust cat As 
medication and since then hasnt had any further issues. 
Mr H made a claim for the cost of the procedure, but it was declined. Great Lakes explained 
his policy didnt cover him for any advice given in the past three months, and they concluded 
that the vet had given him advice in August when she told him to continue with cat As 
medication. 
Our investigator was initially of the opinion that Great Lakes hadnt acted fairly. He believed 
they should accept the claim as neither treatment nor advice were given during the visit in 
August. Great Lakes didnt agree and explained that the policy also didnt cover anything 
cat A was currently having treatment for, including any medications he may be receiving. As 
cat A had been on medication since May 2019, the claim wasnt covered. 
Because of this, our investigator changed his view and let Mr H know that he felt Great 
Lakes had acted correctly in declining the claim. 
Mr H disagreed. He explained that he wasnt asking Great Lakes to cover the medication, 
and that cat A wasnt receiving treatment, as his medication would never treat his issue, only 
manage it. He therefore felt the exclusions detailed in the policy could not be applied. 
Because of this, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for an insurer to decide which risks they wish to cover. Usually, pet insurance wont cover 
any pre-existing conditions, regardless of when they began. However some policies, like this 
one do. But they still have limits as to what theyll cover, and as long as the terms of the 
policy are clear, they can specify when they wont cover a pre-existing condition. 
Mr H has a policy designed to cover pre-existing conditions, but it outlines which ones arent 
covered. It says: 
Which pre-existing conditions are not covered?
We cannot cover any illness or accident that has been diagnosed or that first occurred in the 
last 3 months.
We cannot cover anything your pet is currently having treatment for, or anything they have 
had treatment or advice for in the last 3 months.
This includes any medications that your pet may be receiving.
When your pet has not received treatment or advice for a condition for more than 3 months, 
and it is more than 3 months since it was first treated or diagnosed, it will be covered as a 
pre-existing condition.. 
Initially, Great Lakes declined Mr Hs claim on the basis he had received advice in the last 
three months. However, like the investigator, I dont think advice was given during the initial 
vet consultation. I understand the general health of each cat would need to have been 
discussed at this time, and the vet herself has said she only made a passing comment about 
the medication cat A was on at the time. So its certainly arguable on whether we can say 
that advice was given. 
However, the policy does also state that it wont provide cover for anything a pet is currently 
having treatment for. I understand that the medication cat A is on isnt going to treat its 
condition to the point its cured, but that its more for management. But it is treating the 
symptoms of the condition and is therefore seen as treatment. Because of this, I dont think 
Great Lakes are wrong in declining this claim. 
Mr H is concerned that if this claim is declined, then any further ones relating to cat As 
condition will be declined as well. 
Cover for pre-existing conditions under this policy is given when a pet has not received 
treatment or advice for a condition for more than three months before the policy started. As 
cat A did have treatment within the three months before he took out the policy, it may be the 
case that future claims will be declined. Mr H says he bought this policy as he believed it 
would provide cover for the pre-existing condition, so he may wish to raise a new complaint 
should he believe the policy was mis-sold to him. He can contact our service to help him with 
this, or he can go direct to whoever sold him the policy. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman