DRN-3455055
The complaint
Your text here
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr T lives in another country and had a current account with Engage that came with online 
banking and a debit card. Mr T has explained he believed he was able to use his account 
internationally without restrictions.
In 2020, Mr Ts bank card was blocked. Engage says Mr T entered his PIN incorrectly but 
he doesnt agree.
In February 2021 Mr T contacted Engage and explained he needed to access funds in his 
account but his card wasnt working. Mr T explained he needed access to funds to pay for 
urgent medical treatment. Engage gave Mr T information about how to unblock his bank 
card. On 17 February 2021 Mr T asked Engage to transfer funds to an account he holds in 
his country of residence.
On 6 March 2021 Engage explained it was unable to transfer funds to the country Mr T lives 
in and asked for an alternative account. Mr T responded on 7 March 2021 and provided the 
bank details for a third party in the UK. After further chasing from Mr T, the funds were 
successfully transferred on 9 April 2021.
Mr T referred his complaint to this service and it was upheld by an investigator. They 
thought Engage had unnecessarily delayed the transfer of Mr Ts funds and asked it to pay 
him £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mr T asked to appeal, so his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr T is concerned that his card was blocked despite using the correct PIN. I 
dont doubt the strength of Mr Ts feeling, but Engages systems evidence shows an 
incorrect PIN was used in 2020 and 2021 and that Mr Ts card was blocked as a result. 
Ive looked at everything Mr T and Engage have sent us and Im satisfied the incorrect PIN 
was used which caused his card to be blocked.
The situation was complicated further because Mr T was unable to access his online 
banking facility due to a problem with his computer. That meant Mr Ts options for 
resetting his PIN were limited. I can see Engage provided a telephone number in addition 
to referring Mr T to his online banking facility in order to reset his PIN. Whilst I appreciate 
that option was inconvenient, especially given Mr T lives abroad, it provided an option for 
removing the card block.
Mr T complains he was told he could use his account anywhere in the world, but that was 
wrong. I know Engage wasnt able to complete a transfer to his country of residence. And I 
can see that did cause Mr T inconvenience. But he was able to use his account whilst 
outside the UK. In line with the account terms, Mr Ts debit card could be used to access 
funds via cash machines and retailers for card payments. And Mr T couldve used his 
online banking facility to instruct other payments.
It was when Mr T asked for his funds to be transferred to an account in his country of 
residence that Engage was unable to help. I agree that was inconvenient and Ive taken 
that into account when deciding how to fairly resolve Mr Ts complaint.
I also agree there were some unreasonable delays after Mr T requested a transfer to his 
account. Mr T told Engage he needed funds to pay for urgent medical treatment and I can 
see how distressing he found the delay. Given the nature of the information Mr T gave 
Engage about his health, Id have expected it to treat his request as a priority.
Mr Ts funds were released but it took nearly two months. I agree that some of the delay 
was outside Engages control, but I think it couldve done a lot more to support Mr Ts 
clearly urgent request. Our investigator upheld Mr Ts complaint and asked Engage to pay 
him £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. But I dont agree that figure fairly 
reflects the impact of the issues raised on Mr T. As a result, I intend to increase the award 
and tell Engage to pay Mr T a total of £400 (less any compensation already paid) in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
I invited both parties to respond with any further comments or information they wanted me to 
consider before I reached my final decision. Engage responded to confirm the settlement 
amount Id reached. 
Mr T responded and said he wasnt persuaded the issues raised had come about due to 
entering the incorrect PIN. Mr T also said Engage doesnt have a licence to operate in the 
country he was residing in at the time. Mr T explained how the delays in receiving funds had 
impacted him and treatment he was undergoing and that he didnt agree the proposed 
settlement was fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the provisional decision, Mr T said he didnt accept hed entered the wrong 
PIN when trying to use his bank card, leading him being unable to use it whilst abroad. Im 
sorry to disappoint Mr T but Ive reviewed the systems evidence again and Im satisfied he 
did enter the wrong PIN which meant his card was suspended. 
Mr T also said Engage doesnt have a licence to operate in the country he was visiting which 
is why he wasnt able to access funds. But Engage provides debit cards using Visa or 
Mastercard which allows customers with UK based accounts to access funds and make 
purchases abroad. Im sorry to disappoint Mr T but Im satisfied the problems hes 
experienced using his debit card have come about due to incorrect PIN entries being made, 
not because he couldnt use it abroad. 
Ive considered everything Mr T has told us in response to the provisional decision, including how the delays impacted him. I agree there were delays when Engage agreed to transfer 
funds to Mr T. But I remain of the view that the fairest way to resolve this complaint is for 
Engage to pay him a total of £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused, as set out in 
my provisional decision.
In response to the provisional decision, Engage confirmed it had paid Mr T £100 when 
originally responding to his complaint and went on to credit him with a further £200 following 
the investigators recommendations. Ive taken that into account when reaching my decision 
which is that Engage to should pay Mr T a total of £400 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint and direct Contis Financial Services Limited 
(Engage) to pay him a total of £400 (less any compensation already paid). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman