DRN-3931206
The complaint
Mr C complains Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) irresponsibly lent to him. 
What happened
L2G approved Mr C for a £1,000 in January 2021. The term of the loan was 18 months, with 
repayments of approximately £230 per month. The APR on the loan was over 1,000%.
Mr C says the loan was irresponsibly lent, as L2G did not complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks before approving the loan. Mr C says had L2G done this it wouldve 
realised the loan was unaffordable to him.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said L2G had not completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks, as Mr C had a high level of existing debt. Mr C had 
also entered into a repayment plan on some of his existing credit. Our investigator felt that 
had further checks been completed it wouldve shown Mr C could not have afforded the loan. 
This was because the evidence Mr C supplied demonstrated that his outgoings were higher 
than those used by L2G, including spending a large proportion of his income on gambling 
websites.
L2G disagreed with the outcome. It maintained it had completed proportionate checks, and 
therefore the further information gathered would not have been needed. It maintained it had 
lent responsibly.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Cs complaint. 
L2G and Mr C are aware of our services approach to unaffordable and irresponsible lending 
complaints, so for the sake of conciseness I wont set the detail here. 
L2G needed to take reasonable steps to ensure the lending it provided was responsibly lent 
to Mr C. The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time L2G lent effectively 
required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks needed to 
assess Mr Cs ability to afford the loan and repay it sustainably over its term, without causing 
him financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they shouldve been 
effectively proportionate, taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total 
cost of the credit, as well as the borrowers individual circumstances.
And it wasnt sufficient for L2G to just complete proportionate checks  it also had to 
consider the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending decision. This 
includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be 
made sustainably without having to borrow further.
L2G says it completed reasonable and proportionate checks in this instance. It says it 
completed a credit file search and completed an affordability assessment using national 
average statistics (it also relied on the information Mr C entered into the application). L2G  
says these checks demonstrated that Mr C had sufficient disposable income to meet the 
repayments, and that there were not suggestions of Mr C being in financial difficulties. L2G 
says these checks were proportionate to the amount being lent. Ive considered L2Gs 
argument, but I disagree with it in this instance.
I say this because the checks it did complete demonstrated that Mr C had an income of 
around £1,090 per month. The credit file showed that Mr C had a number of existing credit 
commitments. Whilst some, such as credit cards, were being well maintained, the credit file 
demonstrated that Mr C had recently entered into an arrangement to pay on his current 
account with a current balance of £3,400. There was also a second current account which 
demonstrated that Mr C was also utilising a relatively large overdraft facility there too. There 
were also defaults in the recent past for unsecured loans. 
Im satisfied this information demonstrated that Mr C had had issues managing credit in the 
recent past and was showing signs of doing so again now (with the recent arrangement plan 
being entered into). So it was not reasonable for L2G to rely on the information it gathered, 
and use average statistics to complete its affordability checks. Im satisfied that L2G 
shouldve done more to verify Mr Cs outgoings, and as it did not do this it did not complete 
reasonable or proportionate checks.
As L2G didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks, I have to consider what 
further checks wouldve likely shown. Mr C has provided our service with copies of bank 
statements for the period leading up to the loan being provided. In the absence of other 
information, I find the information provided in the bank statements to be persuasive and have 
used them to come to findings.
The statements show that Mr Cs finances were such that any further lending was not 
affordable to him. The statements demonstrate that Mr C was struggling to maintain his 
finances sustainably, and that his income was at times lower than L2G had used when 
completing its affordability assessment. 
In relation to the outgoings, the statements show that Mr C was already in a debt 
management plan suggesting he was already experiencing financial difficulties. The 
transactions demonstrate that he was also having to use his overdraft to meet his outgoing 
commitments. The statements also show his income was not sufficient to place him in a 
credit position for any sustained period of time. And whilst utilising an overdraft may, in itself, 
not be enough for a case to be considered unaffordable, Im satisfied in this instance it 
suggested sufficiently that Mr C wasnt managing his finances in a sustainable way.
Mr Cs outgoings were also higher than those of the average statistics which L2G had used. 
In particular the information shows Mr C was spending a significant proportion of his monthly 
income on gambling websites. The pattern of spending was such that Im satisfied had L2G 
seen it, that it wouldve had to take it into consideration when deciding if Mr C could meet the 
repayments sustainably. So overall Im satisfied that had L2G completed further checks it wouldve seen that Mr Cs 
finances were such that any further lending was likely unaffordable to him. As such it acted 
unreasonably in providing further credit to him.
Putting things right
Mr C has lost out by the actions of L2G, as he has had to pay additional interest and 
charges. 
In order to put things right I require Loans 2 Go Limited to:
To add up the total amount of money Mr C received as a result of having been given 
this loan. The repayments Mr C made should be deducted from this amount. 
a) If this results in Mr C having paid more than he received, any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Loans 2 Go Limited should 
attempt to arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Mr C.
Loans 2 Go Limited should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs 
credit file in relation to loan but that only needs to be done once the loan has been 
repaid. 
I understand that Loans 2 Go Limited may have sold the outstanding balance on Mr Cs 
account to a third-party debt purchaser. If it has, it will need to either buy the account back 
from the third-party concerned and make the adjustments set out above, pay an amount to 
the third party in order for it to make the necessary reductions, or pay Mr C an amount  
such that he can settle a portion of his debt with the third-party that corresponds with his loss 
- to ensure that it fully complies with this direction
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
Loans 2 Go Limited must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they 
ask for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman