DRN-2359456
The complaint
Mrs E complains NewDay Ltd has registered a default on her credit file and this has 
prevented her from remortgaging.
What happened
Mrs E had two store cards managed by NewDay. Each card had a separate direct debit set 
up to make her monthly payments. In 2013, she moved address but the address on one of 
her store card accounts (Account 1) wasnt updated although the other was (Account 2). In 
2018, she noticed that NewDay were taking two monthly direct debit payments from her 
account and thought that they may have been taking two payments in error or there was 
fraudulent activity. In June 2018, she spoke to NewDay to query this further, but Mrs E says 
it couldnt provide her with clear information or explain the direct debits. Because of this, she 
cancelled one of the direct debits, the direct debit for Account 1. She did this because she 
thought it was fraudulent.
As the direct debit was cancelled, her account fell into arrears and eventually defaulted. 
NewDay wrote to her to request payment and to advise of the arrears however, she says 
she didnt receive these letters as theyd been sent to her previous address.
She realised that a default had been recorded on her credit file in September 2019, when 
her mortgage application was rejected.
NewDay upheld her complaint as it couldnt confirm what shed been advised when she 
spoke to it in 2018. As an apology, it offered £50 in compensation for the inconvenience 
caused. However, it advised that it couldnt remove the default as itd been applied correctly. 
Mrs E brought her complaint to us as she felt that it was unfair for it to apply the default. 
When the investigator spoke to Mrs E, she explained that she forgot to update the address 
on Account 1, as she was no longer using the card. She also advised that the account had 
been managed by different companies in the past, so she wasnt up to date with who was 
managing the account. When she called to query the direct debit in 2018, she wasnt aware 
that NewDay had taken over the account. Mrs E felt that NewDay shouldve noticed that she 
had two accounts on its system.
When the investigator spoke to NewDay it confirmed that her accounts were not cross 
linked, meaning that they werent able to see Account 1 when she spoke to it. 
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld because she didnt think she 
could reasonably say that it shouldve noticed that she had two accounts, when she spoke to 
it in June 2018. The investigator felt that it was Mrs Es decision to cancel the payment for 
Account 1 and she therefore couldnt hold NewDay accountable for this. She also thought as 
each direct debit had a different reference number, suggesting that the payments related to 
two different accounts it wasnt reasonable for her to cancel the direct debit and take no 
further action. She felt, NewDay by writing to the address it held on file for Mrs E, followed 
the correct process.
Mrs E didnt agree with the investigators view. She felt the investigator had reversed 
NewDays acceptance of liability. She said that she cancelled the direct debit based on the 
information provided by NewDay in two calls. Had she not made those calls, the direct debit 
would have still been in place and she would not have a default against her name. In fact, 
she said she paid the full amount of the debt within a few days of learning of the default, so 
this is also not about her ability or willingness to pay.
My provisional decision
I thought there had been mistakes and problems from both sides here. Because of that, the 
situation here is unusual and, while it may be technically correct for NewDay to have applied 
a default, I was not persuaded that this was fair in all the circumstances.
When Mrs E moved to a new house, I said she should have told the then owner of Account 1 
that she had moved and given it her new address. But equally, when Mrs E phoned NewDay 
regarding the two direct debits it should have been able to explain to her what they were for. 
Had either of the parties done what they should have done then I didnt think the account 
would have defaulted. I thought it was more likely than not that she would have kept making 
payments to the account to avoid any issues like this. I said this because shortly after she 
was aware of the default, she repaid the full amount.
The fact that Mrs E assumed that the direct debit was fraudulent was something she decided 
herself. But, NewDay also had an opportunity to inform her about the actual situation here. I 
realised that NewDays systems didnt show the account, but I said thats not Mrs Es fault. 
The account is owned by NewDay and so I thought it was reasonable to expect that it should 
have been able to tell her what the situation with this was when she called.
The fact it didnt and wasnt able to do this means that Mrs E took action that I was 
persuaded she wouldnt have done had NewDay given her correct information. I didnt think 
therefore that it was a fair representation of Mrs Es account handling for the account to be 
shown as defaulted with the credit reference agencies. That, I thought, didnt accurately 
reflect the full picture of what happened here  especially as shes repaid what was owed.
I thought NewDay should therefore remove the default and any other negative markers 
placed on the account from June 2018. 
As Mrs E didnt update her address and did make some assumptions, I didnt think 
compensation was appropriate.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither Mrs E nor NewDay had anything further to add for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has asked me to consider anything else, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision and confirm it here now.
Putting things rightTo put things right I think NewDay should remove the default and other negative markers 
placed on Account 1 from June 2018.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order that NewDay Ltd remove the default and other negative 
markers placed on Account 1 from June 2018.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman