DRN-3860239
The complaint
Miss K complains about the way Union Reiseversicherung AG (hereafter URV) handle 
claims they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known by both parties. It doesnt appear to be in 
dispute and has been well documented by our investigator too, so Ill not recite it again here. 
Instead I will provide a very brief overview of what happened and move on to my findings. 
Miss K had a travel insurance policy underwritten by URV. When in Japan, they made a 
number of claims for overseas medical treatment on it and URV paid a claim relating to 
Miss Ks foot. It didnt pay another claim because it was less than the policys excess. And a 
final claim remained open. Miss K complained theyd experienced multiple difficulties with 
URV, and said those had caused them much inconvenience, put them in financial difficulty, 
and had a knock on effect on other health related matters. 
Our investigator agreed Miss Ks overall experience had been lengthy and frustrating and 
said much of the responsibility for that rested with URV. They said the ongoing impact 
Miss K had described was too remote from URVs original mistakes to fairly hold it 
responsible. But they did think it should let Miss K know what information it required in order 
to assess the remaining claim, and recommended it pay £250 in compensation too.
URV agreed and said it would await confirmation of Miss Ks agreement before paying the 
compensation or reaching out with a list of what information was needed for the outstanding 
claim. 
Miss K didnt think £250 was enough. They reiterated their position and said URV had 
caused them a multitude of ongoing issues. They said theyd consider the matter settled for 
about £800 to £1,000  which theyd use to cover a private medical assessment to initiate 
their life getting back on track  but agreed to the £250 so as not to sacrifice it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both sides should be aware that my findings will not address every single point and 
argument made, they will focus on those matters I consider central and relevant to the 
outcome of this complaint. Having considered all of the available evidence and arguments I 
agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator before me for the following reasons:
URV has a responsibility to handle claims both promptly and fairly, and to not reject 
them unreasonably. During the course of Miss Ks claims there were many instances 
where URV could have done more: such as being clearer and more tailored in its 
communication and faster in progressing matters. Again, I wont recite each and 
every instance of those occurrences here because our investigator has sufficiently 
highlighted them. But I agree that in the circumstances of this complaint URV does 
unfortunately appear to have created a rather lengthy and frustrating period of time 
for Miss K. 
The above had an understandable impact. Miss K found themselves in the unusual 
position of having to turn to their broker for assistance in seeking responses or 
updates from URV. Their claims and a number of their claim related questions were 
subject to delay and lack of responses. And they were left unnecessarily frustrated, 
worried, and uncertain about progress. So, I think it is right that URV compensates 
for this. 
Miss K says a higher award of around £800 to £1,000 would be a fairer reflection of 
what happened, as they could use that money to fund a private medical assessment 
to begin to get their life back on track. I thank Miss K for setting out all of the things 
they feel URV are responsible for. But despite the wide range of impact described, 
Im not persuaded I can fairly hold URV responsible for all of Miss Ks experiences. 
For example, Miss K says their toe suffered permanent damage as they didnt get 
any support in arranging treatment. They say they needed to return home to have 
their coil removed too, because it was an expensive procedure in Japan and given 
their prior difficulties they didnt know if itd be reimbursed by URV. They also say that 
had it not been for URVs actions they wouldnt have needed to return home, nor 
been caused financial difficulties and would still be in Japan which was a country 
they loved and had dreamt of staying in. 
I am of course sorry to hear Miss K feels that way, but URV does not appear to have 
been aware of Miss K requiring any urgent treatment. The onus would have been on 
Miss K to arrange any treatment theyd been advised was medically required at the ti. 
And despite deciding to return home in 2019 Miss K does not appear to have 
undergone their coil treatment until 2022. So, as I think our investigator rightly 
explained, the impact Miss K has relayed is too far removed from URVs actual 
failings to fairly hold it liable.
Miss K also says that the delays in getting their coil removed led to a separate and 
subsequent delay in a diagnosis of ADHD. In turn they say this condition caused 
them difficulties with a Japanese language exam and their subsequent ability to find 
employment in Japan. Again, I am sorry to hear of the difficulties Miss K has 
described, but there just isnt sufficient evidence in this complaint to corroborate their 
position or sufficiently place causation with URV. So, I cannot fairly hold it liable. 
That Miss K was at times caused frustration, worry, and uncertainty as a result of 
URVs actions is fully accepted and the above is in no way intended to detract from 
that. I think it would certainly be helpful of URV to let Miss K know what information it 
might still require in order to assess the open claim, especially given its prior handling 
of matters if it hasnt already done so. But any compensation I award needs to be a 
fair and proportionate reflection of the impact of the failings URV is accountable for. It 
should not be a punitive measure and for all of the reasons given above I too find that 
£250 represents a fair and proportionate reflection here. So, I will not be directing an 
increase to that amount.
Putting things right
To put things right URV should pay £250 compensation.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  Union Reiseversicherung AG should put 
things right in the way I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman