DRN-3551268
The complaint
Mr C, Mrs M, Mr M and Miss R complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt paid a 
claim for a cancelled trip under their travel insurance policy. 
All references to Great Lakes Insurance SE include the agents it has appointed to administer 
claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr C, Mrs M, Mr M and Miss R were insured under a single trip travel insurance policy,
provided by Great Lakes. They were due to stay in a holiday cottage in the UK from 17 April
2020 until 24 April 2020.
On 1 April 2020, Mrs Ms midwife said she shouldnt go on the trip. The midwife said:
the Government have deemed all women who are pregnant to be in the high
risk/vulnerable category from 28 weeks due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Meaning that
they should not go out at all, unless completely essential, and self-isolate at home for
12 weeks
Mr C, Mrs M, Mr M and Miss R therefore cancelled their planned trip and made a claim
under their policy with Great Lakes for their unused costs. Great Lakes said the risk of
contracting Covid-19 wasnt covered under the policy. Mr M, on behalf of all the insured
parties, disputed this and said the policy covered cancellation because of complications
arising as a direct result of pregnancy.
Great Lakes maintained its position and gave examples of what medical conditions it would
consider as complications of pregnancy. Great Lakes also said the cancellation section of Mr
C, Mrs M, Mr M and Miss Rs policy contained an exclusion for regulations set by the
government of any country.
Unhappy, Mr M brought the complaint to the attention of our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened and said Great Lakes should reconsider the 
claim as falling within the policy coverage for complications arising as a direct result of 
pregnancy. Great Lakes didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint was 
referred to me. I made my provisional decision about this complaint in May 2022. In it, I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers should
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into
account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr C, Mrs
M, Mr M and Miss Rs complaint.
I dont agree that precautionary isolation (even if medically advised) to prevent contracting
Covid-19 can reasonably be considered to constitute a complication of pregnancy. Even in
the absence of a definition in the policy for the meaning of the phrase complications arising
as a direct result of pregnancy, I dont think its fair to conclude that this claim arose
because of a medical difficulty relating to Mrs Ms pregnancy itself. Instead, the claim arose
because of an external factor (government advice relating to Covid-19).
I also dont agree that the statement issued about coronavirus cover for policies purchased
up to 16 March 2020 means this claim is covered under Mr C, Mrs M, Mr M and Miss Rs
contract with Great Lakes. This is because I dont think Mrs Ms circumstances fell within any
of the situations listed in the information about the additional cover quoted by Mr M.
But I do think that it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to reconsider this claim as
being covered under Section 1  Cancellation of the policy for another reason. Section 1 of
the policy says Great Lakes will pay for certain costs if a trip is cancelled for one of a list of
specific, insured reasons. One of these reasons is:
2. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with being
quarantined
The word quarantine isnt defined within the policy. Mrs M was advised to isolate by her
midwife. Ive considered several dictionary definitions of the words quarantine and
isolation. While there may well be a slight distinction to be made between the dictionary
definitions of these words, Im satisfied based on the evidence available to me that Mrs M
was medically advised to separate herself entirely from other people in order to prevent her
being exposed to an infectious disease.
Taking into account the ordinary, everyday meaning of the word quarantine, as well as the
context in which the word is used within the policy, I think a reasonable person would
consider that this meant Mrs M was in quarantine and this was the reason she was unable to
travel.
I therefore think the circumstances of this claim are covered under the terms and conditions
of the cancellation section of Mr C, Mrs M, Mr M and Miss Rs policy.
For the avoidance of doubt, I dont think its fair or reasonable to conclude that the policy
exclusion relating to government regulations applies to this claim. Covid-19 shielding advice
was just that  advice  and didnt have the force of law.
So, my provisional findings were that I intended to uphold this complaint. 
Mrs M and Mr M didnt respond to my provisional findings. Mr C and Miss R acknowledged 
receipt of my provisional decision without any additional comments. Great Lakes responded 
to my provisional decision and referred to two previous cases where our service had found 
that the consumers in question werent in quarantine. Great Lakes said it felt that Mr C, Mrs 
M, Mr M and Miss Rs complaint involved similar circumstances. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account what Great Lakes has said, but Im not bound by any previous 
determinations of our service in other cases. My remit is to make a decision based on what I 
think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of an individual case. 
I remain satisfied, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, that the circumstances 
of Mr C, Mrs M, Mr M and Miss Rs claim are covered under the terms and conditions of their 
policy. Putting things right
Great Lakes Insurance SE must assess Mr C, Mrs M, Mr M and Miss Rs claim under the 
cancellation section of their policy, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy but without reference to the government regulations exclusion. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr C, Mrs M, Mr M and Miss Rs complaint and I direct 
Great Lakes Insurance SE to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C, Mrs M, Mr M 
and Miss R to accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman