DRN-1793585
The complaint
Mr A complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited applied unfair end of 
contract charges when his finance agreement was terminated. He also complains about poor 
customer service.
What happened
Mr A tells us that he acquired the vehicle on hire purchase agreement in 2015 for an original 
36 month term. This was later extended. At the end of the term and after the vehicle had 
been collected Mr A says he was charged what he thought were excessive amounts for the 
damage. He complains of generally poor service from Mercedes in dealing with various other 
issues hed raised. This included not being allowed to further extend the contract and being 
contacted by Mercedes about the location of the vehicle after it had already been returned.
MBFS said that after collection the vehicle had been inspected by a company Ill refer to as 
B. It had applied charges in accordance with the MBFS vehicle return standards. Initially, 
the charge had been put at £1,905.46. It said the vehicle was subject to a second inspection 
(as Mr A hadnt personally been present at collection) and the charges were revised. This 
included some items not mentioned on Bs report being removed whilst other items which 
the further inspection revealed were added. The overall cost was reduced to £1820.95. It 
said that Mr As wife had been present at the collection so he must have been aware of the 
arrangements. But it had apologised on the same day when it realised the error on locating 
the vehicles whereabouts had been made. MBFS said that it no longer offered extensions 
unless it was due to a delay in a new vehicle being delivered.
Two of our investigators have looked at this complaint. The first investigator thought that 
MBFS should remove a charge in relation to a damaged bumper. Following which our 
second investigator said shed re-examined the photographs taken at the inspection. And 
she thought all the charges were justified on the basis of the damage depicted in the images 
being outside the return standards. She didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld.
Mr A didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that it would be disappointing for Mr A to learn of the additional charges at the 
end of the agreement. And I accept that any unexpected expense is unwelcome. I also 
recognise that hes not been satisfied with the overall level of customer service provided by 
MBFS.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Where facts are in dispute  as is partly the case here - I reach my conclusions on the 
balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ill deal firstly with the issues which relate to the level of customer service provided. I need to 
preface my remarks by explaining that complaints handling itself isnt a regulated activity and 
Im not able to instruct a business on policies it applies.
In relation to the collection of the vehicle Ive seen an email dated 21 June 2019 which was 
sent to arrange collection for 26 June. I understand Mr As wife was present at the time of 
collection. Unfortunately, MBFS later made an error - including sending an email on 11 July -
querying the location of the vehicle with Mr A after it been collected. It apologised for this 
error later that day and sent an email and letter confirming the vehicle had been collected as 
previously arranged.
I accept this would have been of concern to Mr A. And I acknowledge that he spent some 
time in trying to resolve an issue which understandably he felt shouldnt have arisen. But 
given the response and apology that was made by MBFS I think that was a fair and 
reasonable resolution of that aspect.
The terms of the hire purchase agreement contained a section headed Vehicle Return 
Standards. This set out in detail what would and would not be an acceptable level of damage 
/ wear and tear upon the return of the vehicle. 
Mr A knew the duration of the agreement and that the vehicle would have to be handed back 
by the termination date. I think hes had ample chance to have the vehicle repaired 
independently if he thought this might be a cheaper option.
When the vehicle was collected it was subject to an initial inspection by B. This report listed 
the various items of damage and charges. It contained the following statement:
Parts are costed at Mercedes Benz list price, any shown as "0" value on this report will be 
added to any charges shown.
Vehicles may be subject to a further inspection at a defleet centre and may be subject to 
additional charges
MBFS explained that a second inspection was then carried out at its defleet centre. And the 
various adjustments were made.
Ive looked at the vehicle inspection report by B. And Ive seen the photographs which were 
attached to it and which had been taken at the time of the inspection. Its clear from these 
images that the vehicle was returned in a fairly poor condition with numerous instances of 
damage clearly identifiable. The specific damage and where it fails to meet the return 
standards is set out in the views of the investigators. So I shant repeat this in detail.Having viewed all the images I consider that the damaged items for which Mr A has been 
charged are justified. Including the need to replace an alloy wheel which was raised as a 
specific concern. Looking at the photographic images both front alloy wheels appear to have 
sustained damage to the extent of requiring replacement. But only the right hand front wheel 
has been charged in this respect. Im not aware of any request by Mr A at the time he was 
advised of the charge to replace the alloy wheel to have the damaged item returned to him. 
It would not now be fair or reasonable to expect MBFS to take any action in that respect.
As far as the precise costs are concerned MBFS has applied its standard list prices. It also 
explains it hasnt made any charge for additional labour costs. Ive seen no information to 
make me think the charges arent fair. And based on having dealt with a large number of 
complaints about similar issues I can say the charges fall within the range Id have 
anticipated.
Im also aware that Mr A thought MBFS shouldnt have tried to collect payment whilst the 
charges were disputed.
The Financial Conduct Authority Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) sets out the rules by 
which businesses must comply in terms of the collection of debts allegedly owed. Ive 
considered in particular CONC 7.5.3 which states:
A firm must not ignore or disregard a customers claim that a debt has been settled or is 
disputed and must not continue to make demands for payment without providing clear 
justification and/or evidence as to why the customers claim is not valid.
Although Mr A disputed the charges, I think MBFS made clear the basis on which it sought 
to collect the payment. And that it set out the reasons why it didnt consider his claim valid. I 
dont consider MBFS did anything wrong in this respect.
In summary, I find the charges applied were in line with the terms and conditions of the 
regulated finance agreement. And that where the business was in error - regarding its 
confusion over the vehicle location after collection  it made an appropriate apology. 
Accordingly, Im not asking MBFS to do anything else to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman