DRN-3102397
The complaint
Mr R complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA (PayPal) havent refunded him for a 
damaged exercise bike.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint PayPal, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with credit such 
as this, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 75 claim. This 
section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower 
under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the 
supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr R made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
I think theres evidence here that the bike Mr R received was not of satisfactory quality as 
there were dents and marks on it. So there had been a breach of the implied terms of the 
contract as the bike wasnt of a satisfactory condition. I can see that PayPal accepted that 
and that they agreed to take the bike back.
Putting things right
In those circumstances I dont think it is fair to expect Mr R to pay to return the bike. PayPal 
should pay that cost and arrange collection of it. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie 
SCA to refund the £252 Mr R paid for the bike and arrange collection of it.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman