DRN-2393352
The complaint
Mr B complains that esure Insurance Limited mishandled his claim on his motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr B had a motor policy under which esure was the insurance company responsible for 
dealing with claims. The policy covered a number of risks. They included damage caused by 
theft or attempted theft. They also included damage by other causes.
Mr B had a car with keyless entry. He also had a doorbell that detected visitors and recorded 
CCTV. 
In December 2019, Mr B reported a night-time incident of attempted theft of his car and 
damage to that car and others on his driveway, including the slashing of tyres.
He complained that esure said the incident was malicious damage and applied a policy 
excess of £1,300.00.
Mr B contacted us on 29 January 2020.
By a final response dated 30 January, esure turned down the complaint  but paid Mr B 
£75.00 for failing to escalate his complaint.
 
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
esure should categorise the incident as a theft claim. He thought it was fair for esure to 
charge the malicious damage excess.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and to esure on 30 October 2010. I summarise my findings:
The main reason why I wasnt minded to uphold Mr Bs complaint was that his claim 
was for damage to his vehicle. So I didnt find it unfair or unreasonable that esure 
applied an excess of £1,300.00, which was the total of the voluntary excess for 
damage of £700.00 and the compulsory excess for damage of £600.00.
As that main reason was rather different to the investigators reasons and Mr B 
hadnt had an opportunity to reply, my decision was provisional.
Subject to any further information from Mr B or from esure, my provisional decision was that 
I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct esure Insurance Limited to 
do any more in response to this complaint.
Neither Mr B nor esure has responded to the provisional decision. So I see no reason to 
change my view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the policy booklet, Ive seen that the policy distinguished between the following two 
types of cover for damage:
damagecaused bytheft or attempted theft
damage unless its by theft or attempted theft
From the policy schedule Ive seen that there were excesses as follows:
Voluntary vehicle damage £700.00
Theft £100.00
Compulsory vehicle damage £600.00
Repair work by your own repairer £200.00
I havent seen an excess specific to malicious damage. And  as theres a distinction 
between theft and damage caused by attempted theft  I dont find that the Theft excess of 
£100.00 was the excess that applied to damage caused by attempted theft.
The policy booklet contained a provision that certain claims would not affect no claims 
discount (NCD). Such claims included vandalism claims reported to the police. But Mr B had 
a protected NCD in any event.
From the schedule, I find that esure imposed a compulsory excess of £600.00 for vehicle 
damage and Mr B agreed a voluntary excess of £700.00 for vehicle damage. I consider that 
these excesses applied to damage whether caused by attempted theft or not.
From the CCTV footage, I accept that the first perpetrator tried a door of Mr Bs car. And on 
balance I accept that the perpetrator had an intention to steal the car by electronic means. 
But any such attempt was unsuccessful. And the perpetrator left the scene without causing 
any damage.
I find that the first perpetrator was one of the three perpetrators who - a few moments later - 
damaged Mr Bs car and others on his driveway. They punctured tyres and made no further 
attempt to get into Mr Bs car.
Ive thought about Mr Bs belief that the perpetrators slashed the tyres to prevent Mr B 
driving in pursuit of them.
But for all the reasons Ive mentioned, I dont find that the damage was caused by attempted 
theft.
In any event, there was no actual theft. So I dont find it unfair or unreasonable that esure 
didnt apply the £100.00 excess for theft. 
The main reason why I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint is that his claim was for damage to his 
vehicle. So I dont find it unfair or unreasonable that esure applied an excess of £1,300.00, 
which is the total of the voluntary excess for damage of £700.00 and the compulsory excess 
for damage of £600.00.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct esure Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman