DRN-3369434
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) declined his claim and 
cancelled his policy. 
What happened
In April 2020 Mr P made a claim on his motor insurance policy. As part of a telephone 
interview, he explained hed been involved in a distressing burglary at his brothers house. 
During which his car keys were forcefully taken from him and used to steal his car.
After receiving a copy of the police report, Advantage explained to Mr P they were 
concerned about the way hed presented his claim and his version of events. They 
mentioned several discrepancies including the fact the police report indicated his car had 
been stolen while under the care of his son. 
In response, Mr P said hed told the truth and he intended on making a formal complaint to 
the police to try and resolve the matter. Advantage said they'd review things again if he 
provided evidence the police had changed their report. However, based on the information 
theyd received so far, they didnt think hed provided accurate information. They therefore 
declined the claim on the grounds of fraud and cancelled his policy. They also highlighted 
the fact Mr Ps son wasnt listed as a named driver on the policy and said no cover was 
available if the car had been stolen while under his care.
An investigator at our service then considered the complaint. She felt Advantage had acted 
fairly and reasonably by relying on the police report and concluding the theft may not have 
taken place in the way Mr P described. So, she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr P then requested a final decision as he didnt agree hed been treated fairly. Ive therefore 
considered the complaint afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers should 
handle claims fairly and they shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
In reaching this decision, I havent made a finding on whether Mr P acted fraudulently. 
Instead, Ive considered if Advantages decision to invoke the policys fraud condition was 
reasonable, based on the information they had available at the time. As Mr P is aware, the 
policy wording explains Advantage can decline a claim and cancel a policy, if false 
information is deliberately provided about a claim. However, for Advantage to fairly invoke 
this fraud condition, they need to show it is more likely than not that the condition was 
breached.
I've carefully reviewed the statement Mr P gave Advantage when he described the theft. Ive 
also compared it to the police report. Having done so, Im satisfied there are many 
discrepancies and conflicting statements surrounding the claim. I wont list them all here, but 
a key concern is the information Mr P provided about the location of his car when it was 
stolen. Im also satisfied Mr P has been made aware of each discrepancy and has been 
given a fair opportunity to respond. Despite this opportunity, he hasnt been able to provide a 
satisfactory explanation for the conflicting information. So, I dont think Advantage acted 
unreasonably by declining the claim and cancelling the policy, based on their belief that the 
fraud condition had been breached. Im also satisfied Advantage investigated the matter 
fairly and reached their decision having considered all the available information.
I appreciate Mr P strongly disputes the contents of the police report. However, it isnt an 
insurers ( or this services ) place to interfere with a police investigation or question the 
information they provide. Advantage have offered to consider the matter again should they 
receive confirmation the police have made a mistake. As it stands, Mr P hasnt provided any 
evidence of that nature. So, I dont think Advantage have acted unfairly by continuing to rely 
on the police report and declining to change their position.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied Advantage Insurance Company Limited acted 
fairly and reasonably by cancelling Mr Ps policy and declining his claim. So, I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman