DRN-3116114
The complaint
Mr D complains about the no claims discount (NCD) applied by BUPA Insurance Limited for 
his private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ds policy started in February 2019. He made several claims for treatment relating to one 
medical condition in that policy year. 
BUPA sent Mr D his renewal premium in advance of the 2021/22 policy year. Mr D was 
unhappy that his NCD for that policy year had been impacted by the claims hed made in the 
2019/20 policy year.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought BUPA had 
calculated Mr Ds premium fairly and applied the correct NCD.
Mr D didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy certificate says that the NCD is based on claims approved during a calculation 
period. It explains the calculation period runs for the first 10 months of the year just ending, 
as well as months 11 and 12 of the previous year. 
Im therefore satisfied that BUPA was entitled to take into account the claims it approved in 
the last two months of the 2019/20 policy year when calculating Mr Ds NCD. 
Mr D is also unhappy that BUPA treats each consultation/investigation/treatment as 
individual claims. He thinks if these are for the same condition, they should be treated as 
one claim. 
Having read the policy terms and certificate, I agree with our investigator that its apparent 
BUPA treats each appointment for treatment as a separate claim. Our investigator has 
provided some reasoning for why insurers do this, so I wont repeat that here. Though 
ultimately, Im satisfied that BUPA was entitled to do this.
Based on what Ive seen, I think BUPA has calculated Mr Ds renewal premium accurately 
and has treated him the same as any other person in his position. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman