DRN-4424108
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain about the way that Zurich Insurance PLC handled a medical 
assistance claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the key events.
Mr and Mrs O took out travel insurance through a specialist broker, which provided cover for 
Mrs Os medical conditions, including paraplegia, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and 
complex regional pain syndrome. They travelled abroad with their children in August 2022.
Unfortunately, on 14 August 2022, on their way to the airport to return to the UK, Mrs O 
suffered a fall. She was admitted to a private hospital. Mr O made a medical assistance 
claim on the policy.
Initially, the private hospital diagnosed Mrs O with a severe sprain. She was prescribed pain 
management treatment. However, two days later, following a CT scan, Mrs O was 
diagnosed with a fractured femur.
Mrs O was in a great deal of pain and wished to be repatriated to the UK as soon as
possible. As Mr and Mrs Os children were under the age of 16, they werent allowed to visit
her at the hospital. So Mr O asked whether Zurich could cover the costs of childcare and the
cost of another adult flying out to them and accompanying the children back to the UK.
It seems that Mrs Os treating doctors considered that Mrs O would be fit to fly back to the
UK in a business class seat with a medical escort, if one particular medication could be
stopped for the duration of the journey. As such, Zurichs medical officer concluded that this
would be an appropriate means of repatriating Mrs O.
But Mr and Mrs O strongly disagreed. They said the treating doctors had told Mrs O that
shed need air ambulance repatriation. They felt Zurich was trying to put cost-saving 
measures ahead of what was best for Mrs O. They were also unhappy with the lack of
contact from Zurichs assistance team and with the delays in approving the cost of a relative
travelling out to them and escorting their children back to the UK. Additionally, they had
concerns about the quality of the care provided by the hospital.
Ultimately, Zurich covered the cost of a relative travelling out to Mr and Mrs O and escorting
their children back to the UK. And on 24 August 2022, it agreed to cover the cost of
repatriating Mrs O back to the UK by air ambulance, in addition to paying Mrs Os medical
expenses and hospital benefit. It went on to cover their out-of-pocket expenses  including
costs which werent covered by the terms of the contract. These included the costs of child
entertainment; phone costs and the costs of Mr and Mrs Os pre-booked return flights.
Zurich also accepted that thered been failings in the way it had handled Mr and Mrs Os
claim. So it offered them compensation of £2500 for the way it had handled Mrs Os
emergency assistance claim, along with a further £250 compensation for delays in settling
their out-of-pocket expenses. It also told Mr and Mrs O that it would arrange for its solicitors
to contact Mr and Mrs O to discuss a potential clinical negligence claim against the treating
hospital.
Mr and Mrs O didnt accept Zurichs offer and they asked us to look into this complaint. They
felt the compensation was too low. They said that Mrs Os UK medical team had said that if
shed been repatriated sooner than she was, her recovery wouldve been significantly
quicker. They felt that Mrs Os rehabilitation costs should be met  including the cost of
psychological treatment Mrs O underwent to treat PTSD. Mr and Mrs O said this condition
was due to the trauma caused by Zurichs handling of the claim and delays in Mrs Os
repatriation. And they considered that Zurich had ignored the opinions of the treating doctors
about the best way of repatriating Mrs O to allow it to keep its costs down.
Our investigator felt that Zurich had made a fair offer of compensation. She considered this
was an exceptional award, which was enough to compensate Mr and Mrs O for Zurichs
mistakes.
Mr and Mrs O disagreed and they provided a letter from Mrs Os treating psychologist, which 
says that Mrs O had developed new symptoms of PTSD as a result of her hospital 
admission and repatriation.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 September 2023, which explained the reasons why I 
thought Zurich had already made a fair offer of compensation. I said:
First, Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs O that while Ive summarised the background to this
complaint and their detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all thats been said
and sent to us. Within this decision though, I havent commented on each point thats been
raised and nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the main
issues.
Secondly, its clear that Mr and Mrs O went through a very difficult time and I dont doubt
how upsetting and worrying this situation must have been for both them and for their family. I
was sorry to read about Mrs Os painful injury and her subsequent recurrence of PTSD and I
do hope shes now recovering well.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly.
Zurich accepts that it didnt handle this claim as well as it should have done and its now
offered to pay an exceptional award of compensation to reflect this. Mr and Mrs O dont think
this offer is fair and reasonable to recognise the impact of Zurichs claims handling on them.
Ive considered this very carefully and Ill deal with each point I think is key in turn.
The hospital care
Mr and Mrs O have raised concerns about the quality of the treatment Mrs O received at the
hospital. Its clear that Mrs O was originally diagnosed with a sprain, when, in fact, she had a
fractured femur. So I can understand why Mr and Mrs O were concerned about the ability of
the hospital to provide Mrs O with appropriate treatment.
However, Zurich isnt responsible for the diagnosis given by a treating hospital. I think it was
reasonably entitled to rely on the findings initially communicated to it by Mrs Os treating
doctors. It asked its local agents to comment on the quality of the care provided at the
hospital and was assured, more than once, that it was the best hospital in the region where
Mr and Mrs O had been staying. Zurichs assistance team also offered Mr and Mrs O the
opportunity to move Mrs O from the private to a public hospital for treatment. So, in thecircumstances, I think it took reasonable and appropriate steps to ensure Mrs O was
receiving the right level of care.
Additionally, Zurich also told Mr and Mrs O that it would ask its solicitors to contact them to
look into making a clinical negligence claim against the hospital. In my view, this was a fair
response from Zurich. It isnt clear whether such a claim has been pursued, but this would
be outside the scope of this decision.
Mrs Os repatriation
Its clear how strongly Mr and Mrs O feel that Zurich unreasonably delayed repatriating Mrs
O by air ambulance because they consider it wanted to keep its costs down. Ive looked
carefully at Zurichs claims notes from around the time. As Ive explained, originally, the
hospital diagnosed Mrs O with a sprain. It wasnt until two days later that a fracture was
diagnosed. The notes indicate Zurich was informed that Mrs O could be repatriated on a
commercial flight in business class, with a nurse escort. And the notes show that on 18
August 2022, Zurich spoke with one of Mrs Os treating doctors. They suggested they could
pause one of Mrs Os medications for the duration of the return flight. The notes state too
that the doctor told Zurich that Mrs O didnt want some of the treatment that had been
suggested.
Based on the information Zurich appears to have been given by the treating hospital, I dont
think it was unreasonable for it to have concluded that there wasnt enough evidence to
indicate that an air ambulance repatriation was medically necessary. Ive seen no evidence
that potential cost implications had any impact on this decision. It appears that the treating
doctors did initially think that a business class, escorted flight would be appropriate for Mrs
O. So I dont find Zurich acted unfairly when it initially decided that Mrs O could receive
treatment locally and then return to the UK on a commercial flight.
It appears that on 24 August 2022 (10 days after Mrs Os accident), Zurich concluded that
Mrs O did require air ambulance repatriation. It says that it was at this point that it decided a
commercial flight wouldnt be suitable for her. It isnt clear whether or not Zurich was in a
position to make a decision on this point before it did  but it seems to me that even if I did
think thered been an unreasonable delay in approving air ambulance repatriation, this is
likely to have amounted to five or six additional days in hospital abroad. In my view, the
compensation Zurichs already offered would fairly take such a delay into account.
The childrens repatriation
Mr and Mrs O consider that Zurich unreasonably delayed approving the claim for an escort
to fly abroad and bring their children back to the UK. They say that this caused both them
and the children additional upset and worry. The policy provides cover for a person to either
remain with an injured or ill policyholder, or for someone to fly out to and remain with an
injured/ill policyholder. In this case, Zurich was responsible for covering the cost of Mr O
remaining with Mrs O and the additional expenses he incurred as a result. There was no
cover for the costs of an adult flying abroad to escort the children back to the UK. However,
Zurich agreed to cover these costs outside of the policy terms, which I find to have been a
fair and reasonable response given Mr and Mrs Os situation.
It's unfortunate that the children were not able to visit Mrs O in the hospital. I appreciate this
would have been very upsetting for the whole family. Initially (and correctly), Zurich told Mr
and Mrs O that there was no cover for childcare costs  although it did offer to ask its agent
to look into available options. It doesnt appear that Mr and Mrs O asked Zurich to make
such enquiries. Nonetheless, Zurich went on to pay the costs of childrens entertainment 
again, outside of the policy terms and its liability.Additional expenses
Zurich has settled all of Mr and Mrs Os out-of-pocket expenses, with the exception of food
and clothing. I wouldnt generally expect an insurer to cover the costs of food, as these are
costs which would necessarily be incurred irrespective of an accident or illness. And I dont
think it was unreasonable for Zurich to conclude that clothing wasnt covered under the
medical expenses section of the policy. It did, however, cover Mr Os car hire and fuel costs,
along with his roaming charges  again, outside of the policy terms.
Mr and Mrs O have also claimed for the costs of private treatment with a psychologist for
PTSD. Cover under the policy ends once a policyholder has returned to the UK  so neither
NHS nor UK-based private treatment is covered. But Mr and Mrs O consider that Mrs O
needs private treatment as a direct result of the way Zurich handled the claim. Mrs Os
psychologist has sent us a report, which Ive looked at carefully.
I dont think though that the report indicates that Mrs Os recurrence of PTSD was caused by
Zurich or any failings in the way it handled the claim. It seems that Mrs Os symptoms were
down to the accident itself; being in hospital and being on the repatriation flight. Experiencing
such a difficult situation as Mrs O did abroad will inevitably be very upsetting  but Zurich
cant fairly be held responsible for the consequences of the accident. So while I appreciate
that Mrs Os symptoms are very distressing, I dont think I could fairly or reasonably find that
this report is evidence to show that Zurich should be liable for paying for the costs of ongoing
private psychological therapy.
And while Mr and Mrs O say that Mrs Os UK medical team told her that if shed been
repatriated immediately for surgery, shed have recovered far sooner; there simply isnt any
available medical evidence to demonstrate that this is the case.
Customer service
Zurich accepts there were failings in its communications with Mr and Mrs O and their
representatives. I can see that most contact was driven by Mr O and Mrs Os family. Zurich
doesnt appear to have always been proactive in updating or contacting them. I can entirely
understand why Mr and Mrs O may have felt unsupported by Zurich during this period and
why the relationship effectively broke down. In my view, had Zurich kept Mr O and Mrs Os
family better updated about the status of the claim and been more proactive in its dealings 
with them, Mr and Mrs O are unlikely to have felt that Zurich was acting in its own interests.
Again, I dont doubt that this caused them unnecessary distress at an already stressful time
for them.
So in the round, I think its appropriate and fair that Zurich should compensate Mr and Mrs O
for the impact I think its failings likely had on them and their children. I need to bear in mind
that £2750 is an exceptional award of compensation to reflect the trouble and upset caused
during Mrs Os broadly two-week hospital admission and repatriation, along with a delay in
settling expenses. And I havent seen enough evidence to indicate that Zurichs failings was
the cause of the recurrence of PTSD. In the circumstances of this complaint then, I currently
think £2750 is a fair and reasonable sum to compensate Mr and Mrs O for Zurichs service
failings. This means I think Zurich has already made a fair offer to resolve this complaint. So
I dont intend to direct it to offer anything more.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments or representations they wished 
to make.Mr and Mrs O provided a detailed response to my provisional decision, which Ive 
summarised:
They felt my provisional decision contained mistruths, factual inaccuracies and 
wording which could be considered to be libellous;
I had found that Zurich couldnt be held responsible for the diagnosis of the treating 
hospital. However, the treating hospital had requested Zurichs authorisation for an 
MRI scan on 15 August 2022, which it had refused. This had led to Mrs Os diagnosis 
with a fracture being delayed until much later;
Mr O had wrongly been told that the delay in the MRI scan being done was down to 
the hospital;
With regard to legal cover under the policy, Mr and Mrs O had been told that the 
costs of legal action would supersede the cost of a negligence claim;
There was no doubt that there had been an unnecessary delay in Mrs Os 
repatriation; especially given the treating doctors had originally stated that Mrs O 
would need stretcher repatriation. They referred to Zurichs records of 18 August 
2022, which showed that air ambulance repatriation had been a consideration. And 
they maintained that Zurich had pursued a cheaper option, rather than working in Mrs 
Os best interest;
They wished me to take into account that Zurich had wished to repatriate Mrs O on a 
lay-flat business class seat, despite the fact that such a seat didnt exist. They felt 
Mrs O could have been repatriated within four days if the appropriate form of 
repatriation had been approved, rather than the 14 days it had actually taken;
Mr and Mrs O didnt feel that Zurich should be credited for acting outside of the policy 
terms with regards to their childrens repatriation. They also didnt agree that they 
hadnt asked for assistance in arranging childcare. They provided a screenshot which 
showed that Mr O had asked for childcare support, that Zurich had offered to provide 
a quote  but that a quote had never materialised;
They considered it was fair to conclude that Zurichs handling of the claim had 
contributed to Mrs Os current episode of PTSD. And they stated that there was a 
significant cost involved in instructing a medical expert to demonstrate that if Mrs O 
had been repatriated sooner, shed have made a faster recovery. Based on the fact 
they couldnt recover these costs within this arena, they didnt think it had been 
practicable to explore this avenue;
Zurich hadnt taken ownership of the miscommunications and poor service during the 
handling of the claim. They didnt think thered been any attempt by either Zurich or 
the treating hospital to understand Mrs Os medical conditions;
Mr and Mrs O provided a screenshot dated 24 August 2022 which showed that air 
ambulance repatriation had been approved due to Mr Os complaints and social 
media contact. This email had suggested that Mrs O would continue to experience 
severe pain if her IV pain medication was taken away and her medication had been 
reduced, as Zurich had suggested.
I asked Zurich to comment on Mr and Mrs Os concerns. Again, Ive summarised what I think 
are its key responses:
It was correct that on 15 August 2022, the assistance company had told the treating 
hospital that it wouldnt authorise an MRI. However, less than two hours later, a 
further email was sent which did authorise the costs of the scan. Zurich wasnt 
responsible for any delay in the treating hospital carrying out the procedure;
Outside of its usual protocols, Zurich had sent Mrs O and her mother copies of fit to 
fly documentation;It agreed that it had been considering air ambulance repatriation on 18 August 2022. 
But at this point, repatriation by this method hadnt been considered medically 
necessary, as local treatment was considered to be appropriate;
The final decision to repatriate Mrs O by air ambulance had been made after the 
treating doctor confirmed that she hadnt tolerated other forms of pain-relief 
medication and that the IV pain relief would need to be continued;
Where its appropriate to do so, Zurich will book a row of business class seats  this 
is common practice and what was meant when Zurich referred to lay-flat options;
With regard to childcare options, Zurich had offered to obtain a quote, but had asked 
Mr O to provide it with details of the hotel the family were staying in. This information 
wasnt received and at this point, the assistance company hadnt taken over the 
payment of any bills. But Zurich considered there had been a missed opportunity to 
follow-up on this, which was why it had covered the cost of the childrens 
entertainment;
It agreed with my findings in regard to Mrs Os current episode of PTSD and in 
regard to the lack of medical evidence to show her condition worsened due to its 
handling of the repatriation;
It felt it was unfair for Mr and Mrs O to say it hadnt taken ownership of the errors with 
the claim, given it had agreed to uphold the complaint and pay compensation; 
Zurich hadnt pushed for Mrs Os medication to be changed  it had asked whether 
her medication could be administered orally or through a patch, to allow commercial 
repatriation. When this was shown not to be the case, air ambulance repatriation had 
been approved. It wished to stress that Zurich would not and did not attempt to 
advise a medical professional on how to treat a patient.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs O, I still find that Zurich has 
already made a fair offer of compensation and Ill explain why.
Im satisfied that my provisional decision contains an accurate representation of the facts in 
this case, as I understand them. Mr and Mrs O have brought their complaint to us for an 
informal, independent and impartial decision on the matter, and they are not obliged to 
accept my final decision if they do not wish to do so. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, whilst Ive summarised both parties detailed, 
further submissions, Ive carefully considered all thats been said. Given the informal nature 
of our service though, I wont comment on each point thats been made and Im not required 
to under our rules. Its for me to decide what evidence I think I need to decide a complaint 
fairly and reasonably. And so Ive relied on what I think is the key evidence in this case and 
focused on what I think are the main points to make a decision I think is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances. Ill deal with what I think are the central issues in turn.
Costs outside of the policy terms
As I set out in my provisional decision, its clear that Zurich did pay costs which were over 
and above the cover set out in the policy terms. There was cover for Mr and Mrs Os children 
to be repatriated and Ive seen no evidence to suggest that Zurich indicated that the children 
should fly back to the UK without an adult. However, its still the case that the cost of Mr and 
Mrs Os relative flying out to collect the children, staying overnight in a hotel and then 
accompanying the children back to the UK isnt a cost which Zurich would normally cover . 
And it isnt a cost which is covered under the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Os contract with Zurich.. Given the circumstances of Mrs Os hospitalisation and the need for Mr 
O to remain with her, I still think Zurichs agreement to cover these costs outside of the 
policy terms was fair and appropriate.
I can see from Zurichs notes and the screenshot Mr and Mrs O have provided that Mr O did 
ask whether childcare could be arranged and that Zurich indicated that it could arrange a 
quote. The email asked Mr O to confirm which hotel he and the children were staying in. It 
doesnt appear that Mr O provided Zurich with this information at that point. Given Zurich 
didnt appear to know where Mr O was staying at this particular time, I dont think it could 
have taken immediate steps to obtain such a quote. Nonetheless, Zurich now accepts that it 
could subsequently have done more to assist Mr O with this query and it says this was the 
reason it agreed to pay for the childrens entertainment.
In the circumstances, I can entirely understand why Mr and Mrs O wanted appropriate 
childcare for their children, while Mr O spent time with Mrs O in hospital. But again, this isnt 
a cost which would generally be covered under a travel insurance contract. And so I think 
Zurich responded fairly to its failure to follow-up on Mr Os query by covering these costs.
The fact that Zurich settled parts of this claim when I dont think it needed to do so under the 
terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Os policy is a relevant consideration in reaching my 
decision about whether I think Zurich has acted fairly and reasonably in all the 
circumstances. 
As I explained above, Zurich also paid for other costs which wouldnt usually be covered 
under this policy  such as Mr Os car hire and roaming costs. It didnt agree to pay for food 
costs, or clothing costs and Im still satisfied that it was reasonably entitled to conclude that 
these costs werent covered by the contract terms.
Mrs Os hospital care and repatriation
Its clear how strongly Mr and Mrs O feel that Zurich put cost above what was best for Mrs O. 
I appreciate they feel that Mrs O remained in hospital abroad for significantly longer than she 
ought to have done and that she could have been repatriated some days sooner than she 
was. And they believe it was responsible for delays in Mrs Os actual diagnosis. Ive 
reconsidered these points carefully.
Zurich acknowledges that on 15 August 2022, it told the treating hospital that it wouldnt 
authorise an MRI scan. Ive seen a copy of the email it sent the hospital at 12.08 that day. 
However, Ive also seen a copy of a follow-up email it sent the hospital at 12.59 on the same 
day  51 minutes later. This email did authorise the cost of an MRI scan and asked for it to 
be carried out as soon as possible. But it doesnt appear that a fracture diagnosis was made 
until the following day. In the round then, I dont think I could fairly hold Zurich responsible for 
the overall period of delay in Mrs O being diagnosed with a fracture rather than a sprain.  
During the course of Mrs Os hospitalisation, Zurich spoke with the treating doctors on a 
number of occasions. I remain satisfied that the doctors did agree that Mrs O could be 
repatriated in business class and that her IV medication could be paused. I appreciate 
Zurichs notes show that air ambulance repatriation was being considered on 18 August 
2022. But I dont think it was unreasonable for it to rely on the clinical opinion of the treating 
doctors that Mrs O could be repatriated commercially and that therefore, an air ambulance 
wasnt clinically indicated at that point. Nor do I think it was unreasonable for Zurich to 
question whether pain relief could be administered orally or by a patch, to allow Mrs O to be 
repatriated by commercial means. I dont think this amounted to directing the treating doctors 
to reduce Mrs Os medication. And its clear from Zurichs notes that it was aware of Mrs Os 
existing conditions and how they impacted on her injury.Having reviewed further evidence, I do acknowledge that Zurich seems to have taken into 
account Mr Os complaint when it reassessed whether or not air ambulance repatriation 
should be authorised. But in my view, this wasnt the main reason for the change in its 
position. During further calls with the treating doctors, I can see that Zurich was broadly told 
that patch and oral pain relief medication wasnt working for Mrs O. And that she still 
required IV medication. It was following this conversation that Zurich agreed to repatriate 
Mrs O by air ambulance, to allow her to continue to receive medication by IV. Ive seen no 
compelling evidence that cost containment was the reason for the delay in arranging air 
ambulance repatriation for Mrs O.
Mr and Mrs Os policy entitles Zurich to make repatriation decisions in consultation with the 
treating doctor. Id expect Zurich to exercise this discretion reasonably, taking into account 
Mr and Mrs Os individual circumstances, in reliance on the available medical evidence. Im 
satisfied that Zurich did so in Mr and Mrs Os particular circumstances. 
In the round, I do think Zurich was entitled to rely on the opinions of Mrs Os treating doctors 
that she was receiving appropriate local care and to conclude, initially, that air ambulance 
repatriation wasnt necessary. I think it was reasonably entitled to rely on clinical opinion that 
Mrs O would be fit for commercial repatriation if IV medication could be paused. And while I 
appreciate its possible that Zurich could have organised air ambulance repatriation a few 
days earlier than it did, I still dont think theres persuasive evidence to show that Mrs O 
could have been repatriated 10 days earlier than she actually was. I remain satisfied that 
even if there was a delay of a few days between the date air ambulance repatriation could 
have been arranged and the date it was arranged, the compensation Zurichs already 
offered fairly takes this into account.
The impact of the claim
As I explained in my provisional decision, I was very sorry to hear that Mrs O has suffered a 
new episode of PTSD. Its clear from the psychologists evidence that this is largely due to 
her accident, hospitalisation and repatriation. I dont doubt how upsetting the situation was 
for both Mrs O and her family. But, as Ive explained, I dont think the evidence indicates that 
Mrs Os symptoms are down to any failing on Zurichs part. And its still the case that Zurich 
isnt responsible for the consequences of Mrs Os accident. So I dont think I could 
reasonably direct Zurich to cover any costs associated with treatment of PTSD.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs O say that it wasnt practicable to obtain medical evidence to show 
that Mrs Os recovery was hindered by Zurichs handling of her repatriation, due to the costs 
not being recoverable in this arena. In the absence of such evidence though - from the 
medical professionals who treated Mrs O following her return to the UK - I still dont think I 
could fairly or reasonably find that Zurich adversely impacted Mrs Os recovery.
Customer service
Zurich acknowledges that it did make mistakes in the handling of Mrs Os claim. As I 
explained above, most of the communication was driven by Mr O and Mrs Os family and I 
do think there were clear failings in the way it dealt with this claim. Its clear that the lack of 
support and the delayed communications Mr and Mrs O felt they were receiving from Zurich 
did cause them material trouble and upset at an already very worrying time.
Conclusion
I do acknowledge what a very distressing time this has been for Mr and Mrs O and their 
family. Mrs O suffered a painful injury and its clear that shes been through a prolonged 
period of recovery and rehabilitation. I appreciate that my decision is likely to be disappointing to Mr and Mrs O. 
But, given its accepted mistakes, Zurich has already offered Mr and Mrs O a total award of 
£2750 compensation to recognise the impact its failings had on them. This remains an 
exceptional award of compensation  especially taken together with the costs Zurich has 
covered outside of the policy terms. And I need to bear in mind that the award covers a 
broadly two-week period of hospitalisation and repatriation. In all the circumstances of this 
complaint, I still find that this offer is a fair and reasonable award to reflect the impact of 
Zurichs overall service failings on Mr and Mrs O. And so Im still not persuaded to direct 
Zurich to offer anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
Zurichs offer to pay Mr and Mrs O £2750 compensation is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman