DRN-3544040
The complaint
Mr H complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited refused to renew his buildings 
insurance following a declined subsidence claim.
What happened
References to Mr H and Admiral include respective representatives and agents.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary 
here.
Mr H purchased a property in 2016 and the pre-purchase survey highlighted certain 
defects. The property is insured under a buildings insurance policy underwritten by 
Admiral.
In November 2020, Mr H made a claim on the policy as he noticed the separation 
between the house and the conservatory had increased. The claim was declined as 
Admiral said the damage was detailed in the pre-purchase survey and therefore pre-
dated the policy inception. Mr H accepted the claim wasnt covered by the policy.
Policy renewal was due in September 2021 but three weeks before, Admiral let Mr H 
know if wouldnt be offering renewal cover due to the subsidence.
Mr H complained that the withdrawal of cover was a breach of an established 
insurance agreement about continuation of policy cover by an existing insurer 
following a subsidence claim. He was also unhappy with the short notice provided by 
Admiral.
Admiral said that Mr H hadnt reported the movement identified in the pre-purchase 
survey at policy inception and so it wasnt able to offer renewal and might not have 
offered cover at all from 2016. Ultimately, it said the risk didnt meet its underwriting 
criteria.
Unhappy with Admirals response on these issues, Mr H raised his complaint with 
this Service. Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint saying the insurance 
agreement Mr H referred to only applied if a subsidence claim had been accepted by 
an insurer and that wasnt the case here. Mr H asked an Ombudsman to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role requires me to focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint so if I dont 
comment on all of the parties points, its not that I havent thought about them, its that I dont 
consider I need to specifically reference them in reaching my decision.
Mr H accepts the reasons for the declination of the claim so thats not something Ill be 
considering in this decision. And I wont be commenting on the fairness of Admirals 
underwriting criteria as this is a legitimate exercise of its commercial judgement which risks it 
is happy to insure and which its not. But I can consider if the actions Admiral has taken 
subsequent to the declination are fair.
Declining renewal of the policy
The pre-purchase survey details the defect relating to the conservatory and 
concludes theres been movement which the surveyor attributes to insufficient 
foundations. It says the conservatory needs a complete overhaul or rebuilding.
Admiral says if Mr H had disclosed this pre-existing damage when seeking a quote, it 
wouldnt have offered the policy in the first place.
The ABI guideline Mr H refers to is Where a claim arises, the insurer handling the 
claim should normally continue to provide subsidence cover on the property after the 
repair is effected where the repair has been carried out under the insurers 
direction, or with its approval (my emphasis). But in this case, Admiral declined 
the claim and so repairs werent carried out under its direction or with its approval, so 
I dont think this applies.
But even if I agreed it applies  which I dont  Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to direct Admiral to reinstate cover which it may never have agreed to in 
the first place had it been in possession of the full facts about the state of the 
property.
Mr H says Admiral should have given him more notice. Its this Services approach 
that wed expect notifications about policy renewals to be provided between 14 and 
30 days ahead of the renewal date which Admiral did in this case. 
I acknowledge Admiral was in possession of the information which led it to decline 
renewal some time ahead of this but it says it only reassesses the risk leading up to 
the renewal date rather than on earlier receipt of extra information. I think this is a 
reasonable explanation.  
Ultimately, I understand Mr H was able to obtain alternative insurance cover in time 
for the Admiral policy to cease so while he didnt get as much time as he thinks he 
ought to have, Im satisfied it only had limited impact.
I know Mr H made some alternative cover proposals to Admiral which it declined. As 
Ive explained, its not my role to tell Admiral which risks it should and shouldnt cover 
so I wont comment further on this.
I wont be upholding this part of the complaint.
Complaint handling
Mr H asked for his complaint to be referred to senior management within Admiral and 
he says this was refused. In my experience, it would be unusual for someone of that 
seniority to intervene in a disputed claim or a complaint about it and that in itself isnt 
unreasonable. And it isnt for me to dictate to Admiral how it handles its complaints. Admiral, like many other businesses, has dedicated departments which deal with 
complaints and while Mr H may not be happy with this  or that Admiral referred the 
matter back to its underwriters - Im satisfied Admiral dealt with the complaint and 
issued a final response in line with its obligations, referring Mr H to this Service if he 
remained unhappy. 
This is what Id expect, so I wont be asking Admiral to do anymore on this aspect of 
the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman