DRN-3713316
The complaint
X complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) didnt do enough to protect him from
losing over £11,000 to an investment scam.
What happened
X has explained that in 2020 he saw Bitcoin and investment markets advertised heavily on
the internet, and after providing his contact details and hearing back from a merchant going
by the name of DMX Markets, he decided to invest.
The payments X made to the investment with DMX Markets appear on his Tesco credit
card statements as follows.
Transaction 
number Date MerchantAmount 
(£)Fee 
(£) Total (£)
1 29/06/2020 Cryptonet.exchange 408.06 11.22 419.28
2 02/07/2020 Cryptonet.exchange 1,000.00  1,000.00
3 13/07/2020 Cryptonet.exchange 5,000.00  5,000.00
4 13/07/2020 Cryptonet.exchange 5,001.00  5,001.00
X has explained that after a while the app he was provided access to  to track his 
investment  stopped working, and his balance disappeared. He tried to contact DMX 
Markets but he didnt hear back; and its website went down.
X got in touch with Tesco to notify it hed been scammed. Tesco didnt reimburse X for his 
losses, and it didnt uphold Xs complaint. Remaining unhappy, X referred his complaint 
about Tesco to us. As our investigator (who recommended that the complaint be partially 
upheld) couldnt resolve matters informally, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
I sent my provisional decision to X and Tesco, explaining why I was minded to partially 
uphold the complaint, and the compensation I was intending to award. X replied to my 
provisional decision. And I emailed both X and Tesco on 5 September 2022 to advise them 
on a slight refinement to the compensation I was minded to award, bearing in mind what X 
has said. Tesco has not responded to my provisional decision or subsequent email. And I 
am now ready to explain my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same conclusions as in my provisional decision, as clarified in my 
subsequent emails to the parties, and for the same reasons. I uphold this complaint in part 
and I will explain why. 
Was DMX Markets operating a legitimate enterprise?
Taking everything together, I think its most likely that DMX Markets was not operating a
legitimate enterprise.
Ive seen a 17 August 2020 snapshot of the www.dmxmarkets.com website, which, under 
the heading About us, states, DMX Markets is an Online Forex (FX) Trading Broker,
providing traders across the globe with cutting edge Forex trading technology to offer
unmatched top tier liquidity, institutional grade spreads and the security of tight financial
regulation.
The International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) is an international body
that brings together the worlds securities regulators. The Financial Conduct Authority (the
FCA  the UK regulator) also has its own warning list in place to share alerts
and insight about merchants that have been identified as potentially being fraudulent. The
IOSCOs Investor Alerts Portal and FCA website contain no information, so far as I can see,
about DMX Markets at all.
The FCA banned the sale and marketing of binary options in the UK from 2 April 2019. And
immediately prior to this, binary options/forex traders offering services in the UK were
required to be regulated by the FCA, and DMX Markets wasnt. Nor was DMX Markets
licensed or regulated abroad as far as Im reasonably aware.
Ive found Xs account of events persuasive. There are several online reviews, including from
customers sharing very similar experiences to that of X. I understand X did receive some
credits back from DMX Markets. But there is nothing unusual about this. Typically, its done
to hook the victim in and to keep them sufficiently satisfied and placated, to potentially
induce them into further deposits.
Recovery  chargeback and section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
After the payments were made, I couldnt reasonably expect Tesco to have done anything
further until X notified it of the scam. Then, because these were credit card payments, the
two potential avenues for potential recovery of the payments would have been
chargeback, and section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
However, X made the payments from his Tesco credit card to the crypto exchange (and not 
directly to DMX Markets). This means the merchant here, for chargeback and section 75 
purposes, would be the crypto exchange (and not DMX Markets). I therefore agree with what 
the investigator concluded about this. The crypto exchange legitimately provided the 
services intended (which was the purchase of cryptocurrency). The subsequent transfer of 
the cryptocurrency onto DMX Markets would not give rise to a valid chargeback claim, and 
there would be no valid claim under section 75 either, as the debtor-creditor-supplier link is 
broken given X paid a legitimate crypto exchange. So I dont think these payments were 
recoverable once they had been made.
Should Tesco have reasonably prevented the payments in the first place?
Having decided the above, I can only uphold this complaint if I think Tesco reasonably ought 
to have prevented some or all of Xs payments to the crypto exchange in the first place  
therefore preventing his loss.
Its common ground that X authorised the scam payments in question here. He was tricked 
by the scammers into instructing Tesco to make the payments. I accept these were 
authorised payments even though X was tricked. So although he didnt intend the payments 
to go to scammers, X is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Tesco should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
My fellow ombudsmen and I have referenced the relevant rules, codes of practice and good
industry practice at the time in many previous decisions published our website.
The first two payments
Ive thought about this carefully and Im not persuaded Tesco should be held responsible for
Xs loss of these first two payments. I say this because there is a balance to be struck.
Banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their 
customers best interests. But they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction. And
here, I dont think the payments  particularly given their respective amounts at £408.06 and
£1,000  reasonably ought to have stood out to Tesco. Looking at Xs credit card account
activity in general, I dont think I can reasonably say these payment instructions were
sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for Xs account to say that Tesco ought to have been
obliged to intervene before processing Xs payment instructions.
The third payment
The third payment is a closer call, and I can understand why X has focused on this in his 
response to my provisional decision. It was unusual for X to spend £5,000 in a single 
payment. And the payment was clearly intended for a crypto exchange  and Tesco ought to 
have been well aware of the rise in fraud and scams in recent years, including sophisticated
scams in relation to crypto. However, as Ive explained, there is a balance to be struck. And 
whilst the parties will see below that I think Tesco ought to have intervened from payment 
four, Im not sufficiently persuaded this payment (three) was sufficiently unusual and 
uncharacteristic to say Tesco reasonably ought to have been obliged to have intervened by 
calling X before allowing the payment through just yet. I understand X will be disappointed 
by this and I would reiterate this payment is a close call. But Im just not sufficiently 
persuaded I can say this payment, which was more than a week after the previous two 
smaller payments, was sufficiently unusual yet. It follows that I am not persuaded to hold 
Tesco for the loss of this payment. 
The fourth payment
This was Xs second payment for at least £5,000 in the same day. Tesco ought reasonably
to have recognised this as sufficiently unusual and uncharacteristic for the account such
that, in order to meet its obligations summarised above, it reasonably ought to have spoken 
with X on 13 July 2020 to check everything was in order before it processed the payment, to 
protect him from the possibility of financial harm.During such a conversation with X, I would reasonably expect Tesco to have asked X who 
the payment was for, and for the basic surrounding context, and to have then proceeded 
appropriately from there, with the intention to disturb or unearth a potential fraud or scam. I 
have no reason to believe X wouldnt have been open with Tesco. Tesco reasonably ought 
to, therefore, have quickly learned from its conversation with X the basic background to the 
payment instruction  that X was sending money to cryptonet.exchange specifically to then 
transfer it on to fund an investment with DMX Markets.
Even if the conversation had identified the payment was going to Xs own 
cryptonet.exchange account, the conversation shouldnt have stopped there on the basis 
that the money appeared to be going somewhere safe and within Xs control. This is 
because by January 2019 (almost a year and a half before this payment) Tesco had or ought 
to have had a good enough understanding of how these scams work  including that the 
consumer often moves money to an account in their own name before moving it on again to 
the fraudster.
In a situation like this, I think Tesco ought to have been concerned, especially given the rise 
of sophisticated scams like this in recent years, which again Ill repeat Tesco ought to have 
been well aware of. So I think Tesco ought to have given X a warning. And here, especially 
given Im satisfied X was already exercising some caution, its just that he wasnt aware of 
how these sophisticated scams worked, I think its most likely X would have taken Tescos 
warning seriously, and decided that the risk of continuing to invest with DMX Markets was 
too high to accept. So I think its most likely if Tesco had done what it reasonably ought to 
have done, X wouldnt have proceeded with this payment.
Putting things right
Ive explained why I dont think X would have made and lost payment four if Tesco had done 
what it reasonably ought to have done.
I understand from Xs response to my provisional decision  as explained in my subsequent 
clarification emails to the parties  that X incurred a charge of £199.54 in relation to payment 
four. If X hadnt made payment four, he wouldnt have incurred this charge.
Its reasonable to suppose that if X hadnt made payment four, he also wouldnt have 
received the credits on 15 July 2020 amounting to £81.90. So Xs net loss is £5,118.64 (that 
is, £5,001 plus £199.54 less £81.90). 
I cant reasonably ask Tesco to pay more than this (for example, payments one to three or 
accompanying fees), given, as Ive explained, I dont think I can fairly hold them responsible 
for the loss of those transactions.  
I have thought about whether X should bear some responsibility by way of contributory
negligence. However, I am satisfied there was no contributory negligence on this occasion
and X was simply the unwitting and blameless victim of a sophisticated scam. The bank was
the professional in financial matters; X was a layperson. So I am satisfied no deduction for
contributory negligence should be made in this case.
In addition to this, Tesco should rework Xs credit card account to remove any additional
interest and charges incurred because of the £5,118.64 debt.
I understand from what X has said that he has suffered distress and inconvenience. And I 
am naturally sympathetic in cases like this where someone is cruelly scammed out of funds, 
and there is an emotional impact too. However, I am mindful that the scammers were ultimately the root cause here. And whilst I have concluded Tesco ought to have prevented 
payment four, I dont think I can reasonably say they ought to have prevented the earlier 
payments  so I think if Tesco had done what it ought to have done, X would still have been 
scammed and suffered distress and inconvenience, its just he would have lost less money. 
Overall, Im satisfied the compensation Ive set out represents a fair outcome in this case, 
and so I dont make an additional award here. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and I direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC to
pay X £5,118.64 and rework Xs account to remove any additional interest and charges
incurred because of the £5,118.64 debt.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman