DRN-1499871
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 1990 in connection with a joint mortgage. Mrs W and Mr W say Nationwide Building 
Society (trading as Cheshire Building Society) mis-sold them PPI.
What happened
Mrs W and Mr W took out a PPI policy alongside their mortgage. They paid a monthly 
amount for the policy which offered accident, sickness and unemployment cover. They 
complain they didnt know PPI had been added to their mortgage account.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. Mrs W and Mr W disagreed with 
our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. They added they had 
no other income or savings to cover them during the period of the first deferred PPI 
payment. 
The mortgage only covered Mr W, so sometimes I will only refer to him. Although I will refer 
to Mrs W and Mr W where appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws and Mr Ws case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Nationwide should have made Mrs W and Mr W aware they had a choice in buying the 
policy. They say they were not aware the policy had been added to their mortgage.
Neither Nationwide nor Mrs W and Mr W have any paperwork from the time of sale. I dont 
think thats surprising given that the sale took place around 30 years ago. But it does mean I 
have limited information about the sale, so I have to decide what I think is likely to have 
happened, given the information I do have and the broader circumstances.
Based on what I know about how Nationwide sold policies like this at the time I think its 
likely the optional nature would have been made clear. And nothing Mrs W and Mr W has 
told me makes me think Nationwide didnt follow its normal process here. I also noted the 
policy was tailored to cover Mr W only - so I think their primary concern was that only Mr Ws 
salary needed PPI support which means they probably were also aware it had been added 
to the mortgage account. So overall, I think its more likely Nationwide made it clear to them 
they had a choice about the PPI, and they agreed to buy it to cover Mr W, although I can 
understand why they may not remember this now.
Nationwide, Mrs W and Mr W all agree the sale was non-advised. For non-advised sales, the 
PPI information had to be clear, fair and not misleading for Mrs W and Mr W to make an informed decision. So it was up to Mrs W and Mr W to decide if the policy was of benefit to 
them. I looked at their financial circumstances at the time to see if they would get any benefit 
from the policy.
I noted Mr W said they had no savings and that he would have received either statutory sick 
pay or no sick pay from his employer. But the policy could have paid out for a maximum of 
12 months on a successful claim. This would have been alongside his employee benefits 
and would have also covered him if he was made redundant. So I think the PPI was of value 
to Mrs W and Mr W.  They had borrowed funds against a large and long-term financial 
commitment, which was secured on their home. So I think having the security that the 
mortgage repayments would be made if Mr W was unable to work would have been 
important to them.
Mrs W and Mr W more recently said they would not have had any funds to cover them over 
the deferred period. But I noted Mrs W and Mr W told us on the PPI questionnaire they could 
still have paid their mortgage repayment even if one of them wasnt working and having 
decided they wanted the PPI cover for Mr W, I think its likely they still saw value in the policy 
with the deferred period. So I am not going to uphold this complaint on that point.
I then looked at the information they received, although the evidence produced is limited. 
Nationwide produced a copy of the sample of the Acceptance and Summary of Cover For 
Mortgage Care form which it says Mrs W and Mr W would have seen. Ive looked at the 
form and Ive seen it shows the amount Mrs W and Mr W would have paid each month, the 
monthly benefit they would receive and the key features of the policy, including the things 
the policy did not cover (the exclusions). 
Although this document was probably produced after the PPI sale, I think it most likely 
confirms the information they were given when they decided to buy PPI. Having decided 
they chose to take out the PPI for Mr W - it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And  
for the reasons Ive explained above - it looks like the policy would have been useful for 
them if something went wrong. So I think they most likely had enough information about the 
cost, benefit and the exclusions at the time of the sale and I think its unlikely that more 
information would have put them off from buying it.
I realise that my decision is likely to be disappointing for Mrs W and Mr W. Its always difficult 
to decide a complaint on limited information. But Ive thought very carefully about what they 
said and about what I know of Nationwides sales processes. And I dont think  on balance 
 I can fairly and reasonably uphold their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman