DRN-4284293
The complaint
Mr M complains about the administration of his personal pension plan (PPP) with Phoenix 
Life Limited (Phoenix). He says his annual pension statements dont reflect the full number 
of his annual contributions and he says his payments havent been applied correctly  
resulting in him receiving letters from Phoenix reporting non-payment of contributions. He 
would like the missing payments to be applied correctly to his plan and compensation for any 
investment loss hes suffered as well as the stress the matter has caused him.
What happened
Mr M took out a PPP with Royal & Sun Alliance, now part of Phoenix, in June 1999. 
Reference to contributions being made to the employer are because Mr M is a self-employed 
sole trader and therefore makes his contributions on that basis. 
Mr M says Phoenix hasnt provided a good overall level of administrative service - but in 
February 2020 he was concerned about the number of letters he was receiving stating that 
his contributions hadnt been paid.  He also queried a payment he didnt believe had been 
applied in June 2019 and a refund payment hed received for £200.18 in September 2019 - 
without any explanation. Mr M logged a complaint with our service. But he said that, as 
Phoenix responded to his complaint, explaining that he should ignore the letters which had 
been sent in error  and paying him £50 compensation  he didnt take the complaint any 
further.
But in February 2023 Mr M received a further letter from Phoenix stating that his employer 
contribution from November 2022 hadnt been made. Following further investigation Mr M 
discovered that a number of payments didnt appear to be credited to his pension despite his 
bank account showing they had been paid.
So in March 2023 Mr M complained. He said he was concerned about being advised of the 
non-payment as he could see payments had been made from his bank account. He said he 
couldnt see payments showing as being received on his PPP online portal from 
October 2022, although his bank statements showed they had been sent. He said this had 
been an ongoing problem for many years and as a result he had suspended payments being 
made until Phoenix was able to reassure him about the administration of his plan.
 
Phoenix said that:
It had misinformed Mr M that his contributions hadnt been paid. There had been a 
delay in applying the contributions which meant that automatically generated letters 
had been sent but it confirmed the contributions had been made.
It hadnt reported the missed payments to the relevant authorities.
All the contributions had been made on time and there was no financial loss or 
reduction in the fund value.
The last payment it received was from February 2023. It also said Mr M could restart 
his contributions at any time or could even request a contribution holiday. 
It offered £450 for the distress and inconvenience caused as well as a further £50 for 
exceeding the eight week complaint deadline. With additional postage compensation 
this amounted to £510.
 
But Mr M wasnt satisfied with that outcome, so he brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into matter and initially concluded that the issues Mr M had raised about 
concerns in 2020 hadnt been made in time and werent ones we could consider. However 
he said that we could look at the complaint points relating to the more recent missing 
contributions and the letters Mr M had received from Phoenix about non-payment of 
contributions. 
He said that the problem appeared to be caused because Phoenix had to apply the 
contributions manually which meant they werent always showing on the system in time and 
that created the automatically generated late payment letters. He said this problem could 
be solved if Mr M switched to paying his premiums by direct debit  but he wasnt able to 
compel either party to change how it paid or processed policy premiums. However, overall 
he thought Phoenixs offer of compensation was fair especially as this problem had occurred 
before.
Mr M said he didnt accept the offer because:
The last retirement pack he received showed his contributions to have been £1,800 
for the year when it should have been £2,400. This loss was greater than the 
compensation hed been offered.
He didnt think the amount of compensation for the postage was sufficient.
He didnt accept that he was responsible for Phoenixs poor administration by not 
changing his payment method. He said hed never been asked to do so by Phoenix. 
He had received a number of erroneous letters about his contributions previously. 
Hed made Phoenix aware of this in the hope that it would improve its administration 
and systems. Its failure to do so meant he had little trust left in its ability to manage 
his PPP to his satisfaction. 
The investigator said the delay caused by manually applying the premiums meant that not all 
the contributions were correctly reflected on the annual statements. He said he had no 
reason to dispute Phoenixs confirmation that the fund value was correct and that no 
investment loss had been suffered. 
Mr M then said hed identified several errors within the spreadsheets that the investigator 
had requested from Phoenix. He also thought that an earlier payment hed made in 2019 
hadnt been applied to the pension at all. Upon further investigation he noticed significant 
discrepancies between the dates that premiums were paid and then applied, and he thought 
it was likely this had led to a financial loss as there would have been delays to the 
investment of his premiums. He also thought the compensation hed been offered should be 
increased especially when considering the level of charges that Phoenix had levied on his 
plan during the last year (over £670). 
The investigator thought the errors with the dates and serial numbers of payments within the 
spreadsheet seemed to be a mix up of the date on the sheet itself and was probably just a 
genuine, unrelated error. 
He confirmed that the spreadsheets also demonstrated that each contribution had been 
backdated to when it should have been applied. He reiterated that we couldnt consider the 
question of the missing payment from June 2019, as it formed part of his previous complaint 
which wed said we couldnt consider because it had been brought outside of the time limits 
allowed. Mr M said he didnt accept the outcome and wanted his complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman  so its been passed to me to review. 
Subsequently Mr M made us aware of another erroneous letter hed received dated 
27 July 2023 about payments not being made on time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I find Im in agreement with our investigator. I know this outcome will 
disappoint Mr M as Ive seen the strength of his feelings about these matters  so Ill explain 
my reasons below.  
The 2020 complaint including the missing June 2019 premium
As part of this complaint Mr M referred back to a payment that he said wasnt applied to his 
PPP in June 2019. He said he subsequently received a refund for a similar amount in 
September 2019, but Phoenix had failed to reconcile the two payments and couldnt confirm 
they were linked. He wanted to know what had happened. Our investigator initially told Mr M 
that, as we had already told him that complaint point had been brought outside of the time 
limits allowed, we couldnt reconsider it here.
But Mr M should now be aware that weve looked at that complaint again and will be giving 
him an answer separately in due course  so I dont propose to comment any further on that 
part of the complaint in this decision. 
The missing payment letters
Mr M has complained about a number of erroneous letters hes received confirming that his 
regular contributions hadnt been received and that the matter had been reported to his 
employer. As Mr M is both the employer and the pension holder the letters were sent to 
him directly. 
I can understand the frustration and annoyance that Mr M would have experienced, 
particularly when he received the first of these letters. The formal nature of them would 
undoubtably have caused him some concern that he had infringed pension rules and 
regulations. 
But when Mr M approached Phoenix about this issue it explained that because his premiums 
have to be applied to his plan manually as they were received via standing order, its systems 
detected that the premiums were unpaid. This led to computer generated standard letters 
being sent to him by mistake. It told Mr M to ignore the letters  which were sent in error  
and confirmed his contributions had been made up to date. When Mr M first complained 
about the matter in 2020 Phoenix offered him compensation of £50 for the inconvenience 
caused.
My understanding is that this whole matter has come about because of the manual 
processes involved in applying the contributions and this not being aligned with the 
automated systems Phoenix has - which reconciles the monthly contributions. And, while I 
sympathise with Mr Ms frustrations, Im not able to tell Phoenix to change its everyday 
processes and systems to iron out this flaw. Phoenix has confirmed that Mr M should 
simply ignore these letters and that he hasnt suffered any financial loss as result and the matter hasnt been reported, so I cant say Phoenix has acted unreasonably here or that it 
hasnt tried to allay Mr Ms fears. 
Its disappointing to note that Mr M provided further evidence of such a letter in July 2023  
so clearly Phoenix is unable to fully resolve this issue with its systems at the moment. 
Although it has offered a solution whereby if Mr M switches to making payments by direct 
debit the application of premiums would be automatic and the letters wouldnt therefore be 
generated. Its up to Mr M to decide if he sees this as a change he is willing to consider to 
avoid the situation happening again. But while this is undoubtably a frustrating experience 
for Mr M, I cant reasonably tell Phoenix what to do to put things right regarding its systems. 
Phoenix has offered compensation for the inconvenience which Mr M has suffered as a 
result- and its told him he should just ignore the letters so I cant reasonably ask it to do 
anything more.
The spreadsheet errors and whether all contributions have been allocated correctly
During our investigation we asked Phoenix to show that Mr Ms regular contributions had 
been applied to the PPP, as Mr M, having lost confidence in Phoenixs administration of his 
pension, doubted whether all his payments had been allocated correctly.
Ive looked carefully at the information provided and, for the period that Mr M was able to 
confirm that payments had been made from his bank account, Im pleased to confirm to him 
that Im satisfied the contributions  as far as I can see  have been applied to his plan. I 
know Mr M continues to have his concerns over this matter, but based on the evidence Ive 
seen theres nothing to support the idea that the premiums he has paid are missing from 
his plan.
Mr M did also confirm to us that he found a number of errors in the spreadsheet, mainly in 
the sequencing of how the premiums appeared. But Phoenix has explained that, because 
the serial numbers Mr M referred to are listed in the date order they are received - and 
arent necessarily matched in the same order, they can sometimes appear to be out of 
sequence. This would appear to be a reasonable explanation, but in any case, theres 
nothing to show that any premiums are missing, or that any financial loss has occurred as 
result of the way in which the spreadsheet lays out the information.
The late allocation of contributions to the plan and possible investment loss
Understandably Mr M was also concerned when he looked at the spreadsheets and noted a 
difference between the date his premiums were paid and the date they were applied to his 
plan. He thought that more recently the gap between those dates had increased and he 
began to suspect he was suffering a loss of investment growth because of the delay in 
applying premiums. 
So we asked Phoenix to explain the situation. It said that when they are applied we use the 
price date from the premium due date and as such Mr M is not disadvantaged in anyway.
I also asked it to provide evidence to support its explanation in the form of the spreadsheets.
Im pleased to confirm that, from what Ive seen, the price date and price strike date  which 
are used to determine the unit price and therefore the number of units purchased- were in 
line with the dates the premiums were due. So Im satisfied that the premiums have been 
invested as close as possible to the date they were due, and that Mr M hasnt therefore 
suffered any loss of investment growth. Of course this doesnt explain why the premiums have been allocated to the plan later than 
they were due, but as Ive explained previously Phoenix has to manually apply the premiums 
to Mr Ms plan because of the standing order issue. So the documented record of those 
premiums can, at face value, suggest they arent allocated on time within something like the 
spreadsheet weve seen. But Im satisfied this is simply a reflection of the ways things are 
recorded and doesnt in fact mean that Mr Ms premiums arent invested when theyre 
received.  
Annual statements not showing the full number of contributions paid during the year
Mr M has provided us with a copy of an annual PPP statement setting out the total 
contributions Phoenix received. The statement notes that contributions of £1,800 were 
received and Mr M says that, as he paid £2,400 during the year, hes suffered a loss of 
£600. And I can understand Mr Ms consternation at this information. But as Ive explained 
when answering other points, Phoenix has to apply the premiums manually so they wouldnt 
all necessarily be recorded on its systems for reporting purposes when the statements were 
generated. It should be noted that the statement is simply a snapshot of the plans position 
on a particular date as shown on Phoenixs system, and there may be outstanding 
contributions that havent yet been applied. 
I understand this might be of some confusion to Mr M and I can appreciate his concern. But 
Im satisfied that all the other corresponding information weve cross referenced 
demonstrates that his premiums have been paid and allocated to his PPP and arent 
missing. 
Phoenixs offer of compensation
I dont take lightly the frustration all these issues have caused Mr M, nor the distress and 
inconvenience caused by receiving the letters in particular. I can also see that the 
information Phoenix has provided  such as the annual statements, doesnt always align 
with what Mr M should be able to expect reflects what ought to have happened. For example 
I think Mr M would be understandably concerned to discover the annual statements dont 
always show a full years worth of contributions when they are annual statements. I know 
the explanation for these discrepancies is largely down to Phoenixs systems and 
administrative obligations, but that doesnt lessen the impact theyve had on Mr M. 
I can see that Mr M has had to undertake much more in depth analysis of his PPP premiums 
than Im sure he would have liked, as a result of losing confidence in Phoenixs 
administration  which will have taken some time and effort on his part. So, while I cant say 
Mr M has suffered any financial loss here, nor that Phoenix needs to correct anything further, 
I do think Mr M has been impacted by events and has suffered a degree of distress and 
inconvenience. But Phoenix has recognised that fact and offered a total of £510, of which 
£450 was for distress and inconvenience caused. 
Ive carefully considered Phoenixs offer and I think its fair and reasonable overall. Its within 
the range of what Id expect to see for matters such as these. I note Mr M would like the 
figure to be increased  particularly in light of the fees he pays Phoenix each year for its 
services and administration. 
But I havent seen anything to support the idea that Phoenix ought to refund all its fees, so I 
dont think the compensation payment should be in line with that amount. I think the offer as 
it stands is fair and reasonable.My final decision
Phoenix Life Limited has already made an offer to pay £510 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Phoenix Life Limited should pay £510
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman