DRN-2841148
The complaint
Miss G has complained that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender didnt carry out 
proper affordability checks. 
Miss G also said Mr Lender did a credit search and received her credit score, but at the time 
of the lending she had various defaults and other payday loans. 
What happened
Miss G took two instalment loans from Mr Lender between July 2019 and February 2020. A 
summary of her borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Mr Lender can be 
found below:
loan 
numberloan amount received date repayment 
dateNumber of 
monthly 
repayments Largest 
repayments
1 £200.00 02/07/2019 13/02/2020 6 £79.73
2 £600.00 20/02/2020 05/08/2020 12 £158
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Gs complaint and she didnt uphold her complaint. 
She said, Mr Lender had carried out proportionate checks and these checks showed it that 
Miss G would likely to be able to afford her loans. 
Mr Lender agreed with our adjudicators opinion. 
Miss G disagreed and in summary she said the second loan was taken out so quickly after 
the first one was repaid, that it was for a larger amount, ought to have been a big red flag. 
Seeing this Mr Lender shouldnt have lent to her. 
Miss G also disputes the credit score Mr Lender obtained for her because Miss G says she 
had various defaults on her credit file at the time. Finally, Miss G is unhappy that Mr Lender 
didnt warn her that taking payday loans could affect her chance of getting further borrowing. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Miss G could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss G. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Miss G could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Miss Gs complaint.
Loan 1
When this loan was approved, Mr Lender asked Miss G about her income and she declared 
she earned £1,300 per month. Mr Lender also made some enquires with Miss G about her 
living costs. She declared these to be £1,106 per month. This left Miss G with £194 
disposable income to afford the largest monthly repayment of about £80.
A credit check was also carried out. Mr Lender knew from the credit check results that she 
had one outstanding short-term loan, and this was included as part of Miss Gs declared 
expenditure. It also knew, based on what it was told, that Mis G hadnt had any IVA or CCJs 
within the last two years. It also obtained Miss Gs credit score from one of the credit 
reference agencies. 
I appreciate Miss Gs actual full credit report may show something different to what 
Mr Lender was provided with. But when Mr Lender did the credit check there is no regulation 
about whether it needed to do a credit check let alone one to a required standard. Given this, 
I cant say an error was made by not asking for further information from the credit reference 
agency. So, it was reasonable for Mr Lender to have used and relied on the information it 
received from the credit reference agency.  For Miss Gs first loan I think Mr Lender carried out proportionate checks which showed she 
was likely to be able to afford the repayments she was committing to making. I also havent 
seen any further information that shows its likely Mr Lender was made aware of any financial 
problems Miss G mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to investigate 
her circumstances further. So, Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint about this loan.  
Loan 2
Miss G repaid loan 1 slightly later than Mr Lender expected because she deferred two of the 
capital repayments. While this could be a sign of financial difficulties, it equally couldve been 
Miss G utilising the roll overs that were available to her. The number of deferrals taken is in 
line with what the regulations said was allowed at the time. 
Loan 2 was for a larger amount to be repaid over double the term comparted to loan 1. The 
repayments Miss G had to make started as high as £158 but by the last repayment Miss G 
was paying £56.16. The loan was also taken out fairly quickly after loan 1 was repaid. 
Mr Lender carried out the same sort of checks for this loan as it did for loan 1. It was told 
Miss Gs income was £1,805 with £1,085 declared by Miss G as her monthly expenditure. It 
again carried out a credit check, and the results of that were broadly similar to the one it 
obtained when it approved Miss Gs first loan. 
Given the amount that Miss G was committed to paying along with it still being quite early on 
in the lending relationship, I consider that Mr Lender carried out a proportionate check and 
the results of those checks showed it that Miss G was likely to be able to afford what she 
was committed to paying. Im therefore not going to be upholding Miss Gs complaint about 
this loan. 
Miss G says this loan ought to have been a red flag to Mr Lender. Ive thought about this, 
and the larger loan term was a consideration. But it was still quite early on in the lending 
relationship and while Miss G was expected to make payments for 12 months, these were 
relatively modest compared to her declared income and there wasnt anything else in the 
information that Mr Lender obtained that may have indicated to it that Miss G was having 
financial difficulties so I dont think it needed to do any more. 
I know Miss G is unhappy with the credit score that Mr Lender obtained, but, the score was 
only one of the aspects that Mr Lender used when considering if the loan was affordable. It 
also considered what she declared for her income and expenditure. And, as Ive said above, 
based on what Miss G declared the loans looked affordable for her. 
Finally, I appreciate Miss Gs frustration that Mr Lender didnt warn her that taking this type 
of credit could affect her ability to obtain further credit products in the future. I cant see any 
evidence that it did or didnt do that. But, Mr Lender isnt responsible for how another party 
may view Miss Gs use of these types of loans. 
So, Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint about her loans. I appreciate Miss G will be 
disappointed by the outcome of this complaint, but I hope my explanation has been useful in 
explaining why Ive reached the outcome that I have.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman