DRN-1281380
 
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy SN Marketing Services Ltd trading as My PPI Refund (MPR) hasn't 
properly investigated her payment protection insurance (PPI) claim.  
What happened
Since October 2018 Miss S asked MPR to pursue, on her behalf, PPI claims with her 
lenders. This has meant Miss S has had to sign several letters of authority (LoA), and has 
had replies from several lenders.
In May 2019, Miss S complained to MPR about the handling of her claims. And in July 2019 
MPR responded and agreed to pay her for trouble and upset. Miss S accepted. But she said 
since then MPR has sent her information from one of her lenders, I'll call "S" that isn't about 
her but a family member.  
Miss S said she'd been told by MPR that "S" couldn't find any policies that she had PPI 
cover for. Miss S said the documents she'd received related to an account that wasn't hers, 
so she didn't think her PPI claim had been investigated properly. 
Miss S thinks the responses she had about her PPI claims with "S" are wrong, on the basis 
that MPR and her lender haven't looked into her PPI claims but those of someone else.
MPR said they didn't have any claims for any other member of Miss S's family. And all the 
information they'd sent to "S" was only about Miss S.
Miss S wasn't happy with their response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator accepted that MPR had looked into Miss S's PPI claims with "S". She said 
MPR had only used information about Miss S in pursuant of her claims. And any account 
information would have been provided by "S", and not MPR. She didn't ask MPR to do 
anything differently.
Miss S didn't agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done, so I'm not upholding this complaint. I'll explain why.Since October 2018, Miss S has asked MPR to act on her behalf to see if she could 
make any PPI claims with all of her lenders. This complaint is specifically about MPR and 
one of her lenders "S". So I won't be commenting on any of her other PPI claims.
In 2019, Miss S signed several LoA's for each of her accounts. Several of her accounts were 
with differently named businesses, but the lender responsible for investigating her PPI 
claims for these was the lender "S". 
I have looked at the LoA's Miss S signed, and for each of them the information contained in 
them was about her. The full  name, email address, current address, previous addresses, 
date of birth and signature reflect the details she has given to us. So I'm satisfied the 
information is correct. And it is this information that MPR sent on to her lender "S".
I have also looked at the correspondence that was sent from "S" to  MPR. And this also has 
Miss S's correct name and address details. So MPR would have had no reason to doubt the 
response they had from "S" was about Miss S's PPI claims. And that the information was 
correct. I haven't seen any details about another named person in any of the evidence I have 
seen.
The agreement Miss S had with MPR was on a No win No fee basis.  As none of Miss S's 
claims were successful MPR hasn't charged her a fee for the work they've done.
So I'm satisfied MPR has acted fairly and reasonably by sending Miss S's correct details to 
her lender "S" for them to investigate her claims. And have passed on the information 
"S"  sent back to them which had Miss S's name and address on.
 
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman