DRN-3109812
The complaint
Mr R complains that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
declined his business interruption insurance claim for losses suffered following the 
COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr R trades as a public house and held a commercial insurance policy underwritten by NFU. 
The policy covers a number of areas of risk, including business interruption. 
In March 2020, Mr R was forced to close the premises of his business as a result of the 
government-imposed restrictions introduced to limit the spread of COVID-19. He contacted 
NFU to claim. However, NFU declined the claim. It explained that the core business 
interruption cover provided Mr Rs policy related to situations where damage had led to the 
interruption, and COVID-19 had not caused such damage. 
NFU did then refer to two extensions to this core cover that did not require damage, but said 
that they didnt apply in the circumstances either. NFU said the first extension covered 
losses caused by the occurrence of any of the diseases listed within the extension, but that 
cover did not extend to other diseases not listed. And COVID-19 was not included in this list. 
It also said the second extension related to closure of the premises by a public authority, but 
that this extension excluded any loss resulting from an infectious or contagious disease. And 
that as COVID-19 was such a disease and the Governments instructions were as a result of 
this, the extension didnt apply. 
Mr R was unhappy with this and complained. His complaint has focussed on the first 
extension mentioned  Human Diseases. He said the list of diseases included Plague 
and that this should be interpreted broadly, so as to include COVID-19. He also said that the 
policy did not say the list was exhaustive and he felt diseases not mentioned should be 
covered. Mr R has also expressed unhappiness with a number of other issues, including a 
call he had with NFU and about whether NFU had provided him with a copy of the policy 
wording. When NFU did not change its position on the claim, Mr R brought his complaint to 
this service. 
Although the complaint was seemingly brought outside the time limit for Mr R to have 
referred it to this service, NFU consented to us considering it. Having done so, our 
Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
The Investigator focussed his opinion on the decline of the claim, with his main focus being 
the Human Diseases extension  as this is where he felt Mr Rs complaint was focussed. He 
explained that he considered the list of diseases was deliberately limited and that as it did 
not include COVID-19 there was no cover for this. He was not persuaded that the use of 
Plague within this list should be interpreted as meaning any widespread disease and 
instead felt this was a reference to the specific disease of Plague as identified by the 
World Health Organisation. 
Mr R was unsatisfied with this outcome. He did not though explain what he disagreed with in 
the Investigators findings. But his complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on Mr R, I wont be upholding his complaint. My reasons are 
substantially the same as the Investigators. 
Like the Investigator, I have noted Mr Rs comments and the other issues he has raised. But, 
similarly, I have focussed the majority of this decision on what I consider to be the key issue 
 whether his claim should have been met by NFU.
I understand that Mr R closed his business in March 2020 due to the government-imposed 
restrictions. The nature of this business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to stay 
open after this time. So, the type of cover Mr Rs looking to claim under is business 
interruption insurance.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy Mr R took out.
The core cover provided by the business interruption section of Mr Rs policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate the pandemic 
has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to property 
which has led to an interruption of Mr Rs business.
So, I dont think either the core business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely on 
there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Mr Rs claim. And I think 
NFU acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Mr Rs claim under this area of cover.
Mr Rs policy also includes an extension relating to situations where a public authority has 
taken action or issued advice that has prevented or hindered the use of or access to the 
insured premises. However, this extension  the Public Emergency extension  says that 
NFU; will not pay for any loss resulting from infectious or contagious disease. 
The actions taken/advice issued by the relevant public authorities, including the UK 
Government, that led to Mr R closing his business in March 2020 were taken/issued as a 
result COVID-19. And COVID-19 is an infectious or contagious disease. So, it follows that 
losses resulting from these actions/advice, including those related to the close of Mr Rs 
premises in March 2020, are not covered by this extension. And I consider NFU acted 
appropriately when declining Mr Rs claim under this extension.
The disease extension
Mr Rs policy does include an extension to the business interruption section that provides 
cover where a disease has led to the premises being closed. But, whilst I note Mr Rs 
comments, this is limited to providing cover in the event of certain diseases.The extension says:
Human Diseases
WE will pay for loss of INCOME caused by the occurrence of any of the following 
diseases at the PREMISES which results in closure or restriction in use of the 
PREMISES on the order or advice of a competent authority:
Acute Encephalitis Opthalmia Neonatorum
Acute Poliomyelitis Paratyphoid Fever
Anthrax Plague
Cholera Rabies
Diphtheria Rubella
Dysentery Scarlet Fever
Legionellosis Smallpox
Legionnaires' Disease Tetanus
Leptospirosis Tuberculosis
Malaria Typhoid Fever
Measles Viral Flepatitis
Meningococcal Infection Whooping Cough
Mumps Yellow Fever
Having considered this term, Im not persuaded this section of the policy would have 
provided Mr R with cover for the circumstances of its claim. This is because COVID-19 isnt 
one of the diseases listed in the definition.
When reaching this finding Im mindful that COVID-19 is a new disease that no-one had the 
foresight to cover, and that it might not have been possible for NFU to include it in the policy 
at the time it was written. But I dont think that changes anything. Thats because I dont think 
NFU intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for all diseases. NFU deliberately 
chose to define the cover provided by reference to a static list of certain diseases.
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. The cover is described as relating to any the following diseases, rather than 
for example, including the following diseases. There is nothing in the policy which implies 
that it provides cover for other diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge. 
As Ive said above, a range of policies are available. And some provide cover for all 
notifiable diseases  a list of diseases updated by the Government. These policies might, 
depending on the circumstances, provide cover. But this is not the type of policy Mr R has.
I think the purpose and effect of the policy Mr R has is to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed in the above extension. There are many potential illnesses and diseases that 
the policy does not cover including, for example, SARS (another type of Coronavirus). I dont 
think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all diseases that fall outside 
of the defined list set out above.
Similarly, I am not persuaded that the inclusion of Plague means the extension covers any 
disease that causes death and that spreads quickly to a large number of people, which is 
Mr Rs favoured interpretation of this term. Whilst this may be a dictionary definition of a 
plague, the meaning of such a term in a contract of insurance needs to be considered by the 
context provided by that contract, in view of the wider factual and legal background. 
The context given by the immediate surroundings of this term are, in my view, informative of 
its meaning. The rest of this extension is comprised by a list of a specific diseases, many of 
which would fall into the definition Mr R favours. So, the inclusion of these other diseases would not be necessary if Plague had such a broad meaning. And this context suggests that 
the use of Plague in this list of specific diseases is also a reference to a specific disease. 
The preamble to this list also makes this clear by referencing it as a list of diseases 
indicating there is something specific about their nature.
Whilst the construction of Mr R's policy is different to that considered by the court in 
Rockliffe Hall Limited v Travelers Insurance Company Limited [2021] EWHC 412 (Comm), I 
have noted the reasoning of the judge in this case, which considered the interpretation of the 
term Plague in similar circumstances and which supports my conclusions above. 
Overall, I am persuaded that a court would consider that a reasonable person with the 
background knowledge of Mr R at the time the contract was entered, would have interpreted 
this term as being a reference to the specific disease of Plague rather than as a catch-all for 
all wide-spreading diseases. 
I consider the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can 
fairly and reasonably be read in a different way.
Mr Rs claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As 
cover was not provided under this area of Mr Rs policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied NFUs decision to decline the claim was in 
line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
Other issues
Whilst the focus of this decision is on what I consider to be the key issues, I will briefly touch 
on some of the other points Mr R has raised. 
Mr R has referred to a phone call with NFU not being recorded. This is unfortunate, but given 
the circumstances many businesses, including NFU, were dealing with at the time it is not 
unsurprising. Many businesses were forced to change their working arrangements at short 
notice and often had to work from home using equipment they normally would not. 
Sometimes this has meant that non-standard phone equipment was used and calls that 
would normally be recorded were not. 
NFU has apologised for any distress or inconvenience caused by this issue. And it does not 
seem to me that the content of this call would have any direct bearing on the consideration 
of how the terms of Mr Rs policy apply to the claim he made. Mr R has had adequate 
opportunity to put forward his claim and complaint points. So, I think NFUs apology here is 
sufficient to deal with this point. 
Mr R has also referred to NFU not having sent him a copy of the policy wording. It seems 
that NFU send customers a full copy of this wording when a policy is originally taken out, and 
then only send a policy schedule highlighting any minor changes at each renewal. It is only 
when there is a substantial change that a new policy is sent to renewing customers. I note 
that Mr R originally took his policy out in 2017. 
NFU has provided a copy of a correctly addressed letter from this date, which apparently 
enclosed a copy of the policy wording. It has also provided copies of schedules sent to this 
address, including for the cover year relevant to the claim. These schedules explain that the 
policy wording will be sent if significant changes are made, but that it may not be included 
with the renewal pack. 
Given these points, I think it is more likely than not that Mr R was sent a copy of the policy 
wording in 2017, but that he would not have been sent this at each renewal since. I have seen nothing that persuades me Mr R complaint point here should be upheld. 
Mr Rs other complaint points relate to the general manner in which the insurance is 
provided and premiums quoted to him. However, it is for NFU to determine whether to 
provide a policy covering all risks or to provide a policy based on covering only certain 
risks. NFU, like the majority of insurers, has decided to provide a policy that sets out the 
risks it is willing to cover, rather than one that covers all risks other than those excluded. This 
is seen as appropriate market practice and is not a complaint point I would be inclined to 
uphold. 
It is also for Mr R to decide whether he wants to take out a policy with a particular insurer or 
not. If he is unhappy with how the cover is constructed or with the premium quoted, he is 
free to seek alternative cover. I have seen nothing to suggest Mr R is restricted in being able 
to only receive cover from NFU or a small cohort of insurers. And so I dont consider his 
complaint points here should be upheld either. 
Taking everything into account, I do not consider there to be any area of cover within Mr Rs 
policy that means NFU should have met his claim. And I do not consider his other complaint 
points should be upheld either. I know this decision will be disappointing for Mr R, but I hope 
Ive provided him with a thorough explanation of why this policy doesnt offer cover in the 
circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman