The complaint
Mrs A complains that QIC Europe Limited has turned down a storm damage claim she made 
on her home insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2019, following high winds, Mrs A suffered damage to her garage roof. Some 
of the roof panels blew off and landed in the garden. Mrs A made a claim on her home 
insurance policy.
QIC appointed a surveyor to visit Mrs A and investigate the cause of damage. The surveyor 
didnt think the damage was down to storm. They felt the roof had gradually deteriorated, 
which had weakened it. So they thought the storm had simply highlighted existing damage. 
QIC turned down the claim. It said the policy didnt cover deterioration of materials or 
damage which happened over time.
Mrs A was unhappy with QICs decision and asked us to look into her complaint. She said 
that before the storm, the roof had been in a serviceable condition and didnt leak. She sent 
us photos to show the roof before and after the storm.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs As complaint should be upheld. She accepted that thered 
been storm winds on the day of the damage. She also thought the damage was consistent 
with storm. But she thought the surveyors report showed the storm had highlighted existing 
roof damage rather than being the main cause of it. So she felt it was fair for QIC to turn 
down Mrs As claim.
Mrs A disagreed and raised a number of points, and Ive summarised the main ones. She 
questioned how the roof had survived three earlier storms that year, if itd been in a 
weakened state. She said cracked roof panels were still in place and didnt leak. She felt the 
roof had been maintained and that shed provided evidence and proof to show itd been in a 
good state of repair before the storm. She said QICs and the investigators assessment of 
the damage had been based on assumptions rather than facts. She asked for an 
ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think QIC has treated Mrs A fairly. Ill explain why.
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions that we need to 
ask:
DRN-1639344 Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
 Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
 Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed. 
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of claim?
Neither Mrs A nor QIC dispute there were storm conditions on the date of the damage. The 
highest recorded wind speed was 83mph. So Im satisfied the answer to the first question is 
yes.
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
As the investigator said, during periods of storm winds, there can be damage to roofs and 
chimneys. In this case, part of Mrs As garage roof blew off of the garage and landed in the 
garden during the storm winds. So I think the damage is broadly consistent with storm.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Ive looked very carefully at everything both parties have sent us to establish whether its 
most likely the storm was the main cause of the damage. I thank Mrs A for the detailed 
information shes provided about the roof and for the photos of it. I appreciate how strongly 
she feels about this claim and that she believes the storm winds were the main cause of the 
roof coming away. 
Generally, its for a policyholder to show theyve suffered loss or damage because of 
something their policy covers. But often, an insurer will investigate a claim on a 
policyholders behalf. Thats what happened here. QIC appointed a surveyor to look into 
whether the roof damage was due to storm. 
QICs surveyor didnt think the damage was down to storm. The surveyor carried out an 
inspection of Mrs As roof and the broken sheets and didnt think the damage was down to 
storm or a one off insured event covered by the policy. The report found:
The existing roof sheets  found to be showing signs of deterioration/cracking this has 
caused the roof structure to become weak, the detached area of roof/ridge is due to 
deterioration of the material.
QICs in-house surveyor considered the report. They agreed that the roof damage has not 
been due to an insurable event but has been due to the poor condition of the roof sheets 
which are showing visible signs of degradation. This has weakened the roof sheets which 
through time have cracked, compromising the strength of the sheets, the high winds have 
not caused the damage but highlighted there is a pre-existing defect with the roof. The roof 
panels being in poor condition have meant the panel has been blown outthe large cracks 
had already severely weakened the profiled roof sheets which have then failed entirely.
Ive seen the photos the surveyor took, both internal and external, and I think these photos, 
together with their comments shows they carried out a full assessment of the likely cause of 
damage. I also think the photos show that there was pre-existing cracking to the roof sheets, 
which I think supports the surveyors findings.Ive placed significant weight on QICs surveyors report. Thats because its the only expert 
evidence I have to show me the most likely cause of the damage. Given their findings, on 
balance, it seems most likely that the main cause of the damage was the existing 
deterioration of the roof, rather than the storm winds. And Mrs A hasnt provided me with any 
independent expert report which counters QICs findings.
So overall, while I sympathise with Mrs As position, especially given the roof had previously 
withstood storm conditions, I dont think the storm was the most likely cause of the damage. 
On balance, I think its most likely the storm simply highlighted existing issues with the 
garage roof.
Mrs As policy specifically excludes damage which happens over time, gradual deterioration 
of materials or wear and tear. So given the surveyors finding, I think it was fair for QIC to 
turn down Mrs As claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman