DRN-2437689
The complaint
Mr P says Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty lent to him irresponsibly. He says he was 
struggling to pay his bills, and other debts, and so Drafty shouldnt have lent to him. 
Mr P also feels that Drafty didnt respond appropriately when he informed it about some 
financial difficulties he was having. This was because his income was reduced due to the 
Covid  19 pandemic. He says Drafty didnt follow the regulatory guidance issued for this 
situation and it was very difficult to contact. 
What happened
This complaint is about one running credit account Drafty provided to Mr P in September 
2018. This was an arrangement where Mr P could drawdown funds up to an agreed credit 
limit. He would need to repay a minimum of 2% of the outstanding balance each month plus 
any accrued interest or charges. 
The arrangement had an initial credit limit of £1,500. Mr P withdrew up to this amount in the 
first few months of the account. The credit limit on the account was increased to £1,880 in 
December 2018, £2,260 in January 2019 and £2,410 in December 2019. 
Mr P made his last withdrawal in April 2020. I understand the arrangement still has an 
outstanding balance and the facility is now suspended. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought that:
it wasnt wrong for Drafty to have approved the initial lending, and any further 
drawdowns before 9 October 2019
Drafty shouldnt have lent from 9 October 2019 onwards as it was clear Mr P was in 
financial difficulty at this time 
Drafty didnt respond appropriately when Mr P informed it about his financial 
difficulties related to the Covid - 19 pandemic. It should pay compensation of £120 for 
this.
Drafty agreed with the adjudicators findings and offered to pay compensation on this basis. 
Mr P didnt fully agree with what the adjudicator said. He didnt raise any further issues about 
the adjudicators opinion that Drafty shouldnt have lent from 9 October 2019 onwards, and 
the compensation for poor customer service. But he thought all of the interest and charges 
on the lending should be refunded from the start. He said that:
the way the lending operated, in particular the high amount of interest caused a debt 
spiral
Drafty should have seen sooner that he was in financial difficulty and not lent, the 
loans caused him severe financial hardship and he is having problems with a third 
party collections agency 
He feels that his is a vulnerable consumer and he doesnt feel that he has been treated fairly 
by Drafty. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Drafty needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Drafty should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
And Drafty needed to monitor the account on an ongoing basis to ensure that the use of it 
didnt make it reasonable to think that Mr P was in financial difficulty. The FCA guidance is 
set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook. Section 6.7.2R of the relevant guidance says: 
A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action 
were there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint in part and have explained why below.Mr P and Drafty didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion to pay compensation for the 
loan drawdowns made on, and after, 9 October 2019. And both parties didnt disagree with 
the compensation payable for Draftys poor customer service. 
Because of this I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about this period of lending, 
and the customer service Drafty provided when Mr P said he was having problems. So, I 
wont comment further on these areas of Mr Ps complaint, save to say I agree with the 
outcomes the adjudicator recommended. 
Ill only comment in any detail about whether it was right for Drafty to approve the loan at 
outset and the withdrawals up to 9 October 2019. 
This agreement had an initial credit limit of £1,500 and didnt have a fixed time to be repaid. 
The credit agreement showed that if Mr P borrowed the full amount straight away, and 
repaid this back over 12 months, he would pay about £170 each month. So given the facility 
didnt need to be repaid in one go, Drafty was considering whether Mr P would be able to 
repay the debt over a reasonable period of time. 
Ive seen a record of the information Mr P provided when he completed his loan application. 
Mr P said he had a monthly income of £3,500 and he had regular monthly outgoings of 
£1,250. This left him with a disposable income of £2,250. So, the arrangement wouldve 
seemed affordable to Drafty at the start of it.  
As our adjudicator outlined the credit report Drafty obtained before the lending showed that 
Mr P did have some other lending, and there was some evidence of repayment problems a 
while ago. But I havent seen anything to say it wouldve been obvious to Drafty, from the 
information that it had, that Mr P was in financial difficulty when it arranged the facility. 
And, as far as I can see, the information that Mr P supplied, and that was shown on his 
credit report, didnt materially change over the time Mr P borrowed from Drafty. 
And at the start of the lending I dont think that Mr P used the account in a way that 
shouldve alerted Drafty that he was be in financial difficulty. He didnt always draw up to the 
accounts limit and he was making regular repayments. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Drafty was made aware of any 
financial problems Mr P mightve been having up to 9 October 2019. Or anything that 
wouldve prompted it to investigate Mr Ps circumstances further. So I think it was 
reasonable for Drafty to rely on the information it obtained.
Overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Drafty did before approving the 
loan were proportionate. And I think its decision to lend was reasonable. I also think it 
monitored the account reasonably up to 9 October 2019. So Im not upholding Mr Ps 
complaint about the lending before 9 October 2019. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Drafty should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr P from loan 9 October 2019, as Im satisfied it 
ought to have.Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr P may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr P in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr P would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Draftys liability in this case for what Im satisfied 
it has done wrong and should put right
Drafty shouldnt have approved any further drawdowns from 9 October 2019. So it should:
A) Remove all the unpaid interest, fees and charges from the account after 9 October 
2019.
B) Treat all payments Mr P has made towards the account after 9 October 2019 as 
though they had been repayments of outstanding principal.
C) If at any point Mr P would have been in credit on his account after considering the 
above, Drafty will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the 
refund is made.
D) If there is an outstanding principal balance, then Drafty can use any refunds 
calculated as part of C to repay this. If a balance remains after this then it should try 
to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr P. I would remind Drafty, as per the 
FCA guidance, that when considering what is in Mr Ps interest with this plan, Drafty 
should treat Mr P fairly. If Drafty has previously written-off any principal, then it 
shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up only of principal it has already 
written-off.
E) remove any adverse payment information recorded on Mr Ps credit file after 9 
October 2019.
F) Pay Mr P direct an amount of compensation of £120 for the trouble and upset 
unnecessarily caused to him by the level of service he received from Drafty. This 
amount should not be offset against any outstanding balance, unless Mr P chooses 
to offset it himself.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to deduct tax from this interest. Drafty should give 
Mr P a certificate showing how much tax Drafty has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman