DRN-1845553
The complaint
Mrs P says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs P bought the policy in 1997 at the same time as taking out a store card.
I issued a provisional decision explaining I wasnt planning to uphold the complaint. This 
gave Mrs P and AXA the chance to respond, but neither did.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint for the following reasons. 
Mrs P ticked a box on her card application form to indicate she wanted PPI. So, I think AXA 
made Mrs P aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take 
it.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs P so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But based on what I know about her circumstances it looks like the policy couldve 
been useful to her.
While Mrs P had a longstanding medical condition that wouldnt have been covered by the 
PPI, Mrs P gave us information that indicated it was well controlled at the time the PPI was 
sold. She had never had time off work or been hospitalised due the condition and only 
required annual reviews of her medication. Because of this, I dont think it wouldve been 
important to her to have her medical condition covered by the policy - as it would have 
seemed very unlikely that it would cause her to claim. So, I dont think better information 
wouldve stopped her buying it.
The regulators rules about high levels of undisclosed commission and profit share dont 
apply in this case, because AXA was not the lender.
Ive taken into account Mrs Ps comments. But these points dont change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Phillip Lai-FangOmbudsman