DRN-3244778
The complaint
Mr E complains that County Capital Wealth Management Limited (County Capital) gave him 
unsuitable advice to transfer out of the British Steelworkers Pension Scheme (BSPS) into a 
Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
What happened
Mr E is represented by a professional representative but from this point forward any 
reference to Mr E includes the representative.
In March 2016 it was announced that Mr Es employer would be looking at ways to 
restructure the business and its pension arrangements. There was the chance that the 
BSPS scheme would go to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  which would mean a loss of 
benefits of 10%. There was also the potential for a move over to a new BSPS scheme, 
BSPS2.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) had made the announcement that the 
terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That 
announcement said that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size 
could be satisfied, a new pension scheme sponsored by Mr Es employer would be set up  
the BSPS2. This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined 
benefit OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme 
was due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter 
in October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor 
scheme, BSPS 2, remain in BSPS and subsequently move to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF) or into a private arrangement, such as a Personal Pension or SIPP. A deadline was 
set for members to notify the scheme administrators as to their choice by 22 December 
2017.
On 22 September 2017, Mr E received a transfer value for his BSPS of
£333,884.71. This transfer value was initially valid until 22 December 2017, but 
the deadline was later extended to 26 January 2018.
In October 2017 Mr E received his Your Time to Choose booklet from the 
BSPS trustees. Mr E essentially had three options at this point:
(i) become a member of the new BSPS 2, which was another final salary 
scheme but which retained most of the benefits of the existing BSPS.
(ii) remain a member of the existing BSPS, which would eventually move 
into the PPF in March 2018; or
(iii) take advice about transferring the value of his benefits out of the BSPS to a 
personal pension or SIPP.
The booklet set-out Mr Es estimated future benefit entitlement under BSPS2. At normal 
retirement age of 65, it was estimated he could receive £22,063.67 p.a or £102,000 tax 
free case and a reduced annuity of £15,297.65. At early retirement of age 55, £13,492.87 
p.a  or £66,751.53 tax-free cash and a reduced annuity of £10,012.73.
At some point before the 22 December 2017 deadline, Mr E returned his form and 
selected to join the new BSPS2 scheme.
Mr E met with another firm prior to County Capital becoming involved, West Wales, in 
November 2017. Hes told us he was very concerned about the negative feeling going 
around about the BSPS and the PPF. And as many of colleagues were seeking advice, 
he felt he needed to as well.
Mr E says he was told transferring out was a no-brainer and the adviser recommended 
transferring to a personal pension. Hes told us that the benefits of the PPF or the 
BSPS2 werent discussed as the adviser was convinced transferring was the best option. 
Mr E said the adviser left it for him to complete the Confidential Personal Review and risk 
questionnaire.
Mr E confirmed to West Wales that he wished to go ahead with the transfer to the personal 
pension, the fees were 1.3% in total. Mr E also said that hed be interested in, as the fees 
were low, putting his investments in something more aggressive as he had years on his side. 
Mr E says he said this as hed heard young people could take more risk. And hed felt he 
wasnt being treated as an individual as the advice had been rushed, hed been told the 
adviser was seeing another 12 people that day.
Mr E then received a letter from West Wales in December 2017 saying theyd lost their 
permissions to do the transfer. It was at this point that County Capital became involved. Its 
said it acted as a bureau service and the evidence shows that Mr E continued to correspond 
with the same adviser from West Wales but the transfer paperwork and suitability report was 
completed by a County Capital representative.
County Capital sent Mr E a welcome email on 4 January 2018 with a pension transfer 
questionnaire.
After completing this, the West Wales adviser got in contact with Mr E and said his answers 
had come out as a 2 on a risk scale of 10 which is a cautious investor and the 
recommendation for a risk 2 would be to remain in the scheme as your tolerance for loss is 
very low. To transfer it would need to be a minimum of a risk 4. Please ring me when you 
can and we can discuss this further.
Mr E replied to say that hed rushed the form and he would re-do it more realistically. He was 
given a new risk analysis to do  using a different method and he filled it in  this brought 
him to a level 5 and high enough for a transfer to proceed.
County Capital sent Mr E a fact-find following a questionnaire he had completed and his 
discussions with the West Wales adviser. This set out its assessment of his circumstances 
and objectives:
He was 41 years old, living with his partner and had two dependent children;
He had a mortgage with £60,000 outstanding on £150,000
He was the main earner earning £27,000 p.a (although at date of leaving 
service his salary is listed by BSPS trustees as £37,000), his partner worked 
part-time earning
£8.500 p.a he didnt have any savings, but had death in service cover 
through his employment, which would pay four times his salary. He also had 
life insurance to cover his mortgage;
He had no investment experience;
He wanted to consider partially retiring at age 57 and no later than 60 and working part-time;
He had the following pensions:
BSPS, Mr E had 23 years of service in the scheme. Death benefits would 
also be available to Mr Es children. By the time the advice was given by 
County Capital hed already committed to join the BSPS2 (in completing 
histime to choose form which retained most of the benefits within BSPS. 
By the time the transfer occurred Mr E had joined the BSPS2 scheme.
Following the end of BSPS Mr Es employer set up a new defined 
contribution scheme and between Mr E and his employer 16% of his 
salary is contributed.
Objectives:
Mr E wanted to receive an annual income in retirement of around £18,000;
He wanted to retire at 57 and flexibly access his pension;
He wanted to secure his familys future;
He wanted his pension invested in a competitively charged product
He wanted flexibility, but didnt wish to manage the funds himself; and he 
wanted regular reviews and access to up-to-date fund values and 
performance
County Capital recommended Mr E transfer out of the BSPS and invest in a SIPP. The 
SIPP was to be invested in a Model portfolio fund managed by a discretionary fund 
manager (DFM). A TVAS report was completed, which indicated the amount of 
investment growth required for the recommended plan to match the benefits of the 
BSPS if it fell into the PPF. 
BSPS critical yield
The TVAS indicated that the SIPP would need to grow by 4.65% per annum to match 
the BSPS benefits, or 4.39% if tax-free cash taken. This calculation was based on a 
retirement age of 65. The TVAS indicated a critical yield of 5.7% for retiring at age 57, or 
5.45% if tax- free cash was taken.
PPF critical yield
The TVAS indicated the SIPP would need to grow by 4.22% per annum to match the BSPS 
benefits if falling into the PPF (i.e. where 90% of the BSPS benefits would be paid), or 3.97% 
if tax-free cash was taken. This calculation was based on a retirement age of 65.
The TVAS indicated a critical yield of 5.06% for retiring at age 57, or 4.78% if tax-free cash is 
taken.
Its worth noting here that the suitability report contained errors, as it stated the critical 
yield figures for retiring at 57 in the TVAS, as being the figures at age of 60. The 
suitability report also indicated that the figures provided were on the basis of the BSPS 
moving to the PPF yet the TVAS provided separate PPF figures. (Ive disregarded the 
figures given above for the PPF as we know the early retirement critical yield for 
the PPF should be higher than that needed for BSPS  so they cant be accurate).
County Capital explained the following fees applied to the transfer:
Adviser feesCounty Capitals adviser fees were not set out in the suitability report, but noted 
in a separate fee arrangement document.
County Capitals initial adviser charge for arranging the transfer was 2.25% of the transfer, at
£7,512.40. It charged an ongoing adviser fee of 0.75% fund value p.a, however agency 
for the SIPP was transferred back to West Wales in August 2018.
Product fees
The SIPP incurred the following charges:
- DFM charge: 0.68% (this fee was not disclosed in County Capitals 
suitability report); and
- platform charge: 0.3% fund value per annum
Mr E accepted County Capitals recommendation to transfer and the transfer took place 
in April 2018.
Mr E now complains about the advice he received as he doesnt believe transferring 
was in his best interests for the following reasons:
He never met with anyone from County Capital;
He feels the SIPP was not explained to him;
He feels the true extent of the adviser and product fees were excessive and 
werent clearly explained. Mr E discovered he was paying significantly higher 
fees than colleagues in similar circumstances who also transferred their BSPS 
pensions;
He was left to complete complex forms about his attitude to risk (ATR) 
without assistance. Mr E had no investment experience, so found this 
difficult. He doesnt believe County Capital properly established his ATR;
His ATR questionnaire was amended following a discussion with his previous 
adviser. According to his original answers to the risk questionnaire, he was a 
cautious investor. Mr E states he wouldnt have wanted to take any 
significant risk with his pension, or any at all if he couldve avoided it;
He felt under pressure and the process was rushed due to the short 
transfer deadline;
He says the BSPS2 and PPF entitlement wasnt explained to him;
He says he was convinced by his conversations with the West Wales adviser 
that he would be better off by transferring;
His suggestion of requiring £18,000 per annum in retirement was just a 
guess. He didnt truly know how much he would require during retirement;
He didnt have a particular need for greater flexibility;
A SIPP with its higher fees wasnt suitable for him given his limited investment 
experience. He had no desire to invest in anything that needed to be held in a 
SIPP wrapper;
County Capital suitability report was dated the day before the transfer deadline. 
Mr E doesnt recall this letter being sent to him or explained;
The suitability report failed to set out the level of income the PPF or BSPS2 
would provide. He therefore feels the report was misleading.
The BSPS scheme administrators have confirmed that Mr E completed his Time to Choose 
option form and opted to move his pension into the new scheme. He joined the BSPS2 on 
29 March 2018 before transferring to the SIPP the following month as a result of County 
Capitals advice.Our investigator looked into matters and concluded that the advice Mr E was given was 
unsuitable and upheld the complaint in full.
County Capital responded to say:
It didnt agree the advice was unsuitable
We hadnt recognised West Wales responsibility and involvement. County Capital 
had only provided a bureau service. West Wales holds at least equal responsibility if 
not more
The investigator had said it wasnt reasonable for County Capital to rely on the 
information from West Wales. County Capital disagrees  COBS says it will generally 
be reasonable for a firm to rely on information provided to it by an unconnected 
authorised person or a professional person. Mr E also signed all the documentation 
agreeing it was correct. County Capital strongly disagrees that it should have 
challenged Mr E about his personal circumstances and objectives.
County Capital disagrees they should have questioned Mr Es objectives  those are 
the ones that he gave. It disagrees with the suggestion that those objectives could 
have been satisfied by joining BSPS2.  Those objectives could be best achieved by a 
transfer out to a private arrangement.
Whilst the investigator refers to the Critical Yield that would have been required at 
age 57, she has disregarded the fact that taking a regular income of £25,000 p.a. 
(net) would have represented a withdrawal rate of circa 4.5% p.a. which County 
Capital assessed to be a sustainable withdrawal rate; and that Mr E would have been 
able to reduce his withdrawals from age 67.
County Capital undertook significant cashflow modelling to stress-test the transfer to 
determine its viability; and each of the models run by County Capital demonstrated 
that by transferring his benefits Mr E would be in a much stronger position on 
retirement, whilst also giving him maximum flexibility over how and when he chose to 
take his pension benefits.
Further, the projected amount of tax-free cash available from a private arrangement 
was significantly higher than the tax-free cash that wouldve been available from the 
PPF, and therefore higher than the tax-free cash that would have been available from 
BSPS2.
Mr E had expressed a very strong preference to retire early (which, he explained, 
was because of his partners family history) and to achieve flexibility with his pension 
benefits, which would enable him to do so.
If the Ombudsman decides that Mr E should be put back in the position that he would 
have been but for the unsuitable advice, then as a starting point the trustees of the 
BSPS2 scheme should be asked whether it is possible for his pension to be 
reinstated into that scheme. That would put Mr E back in exactly the same position 
he would have been in had County Capital recommended that he remained in 
BSPS2.
I issued a provisional decision setting out my findings. In summary it said:
I didnt think the presumption of unsuitability had ever been considered by County 
Capital.
County Capital had compared Mr Es benefits to the PPF but Mr E had already 
committed to join the BSPS2 scheme at the time of transfer.
I had my concerns about the figures used to represent the BSPS throughout the 
suitability report and TVAS. Mr E had already chosen to join the BSPS2 and it had 
set out in its time to choose booklet the figures he could receive. These figures were 
much higher than what County Capital used in their suitability report and TVASCounty Capital couldnt just rely on the advice being suitable because the West 
Wales adviser had reached that conclusion.
West Wales had lost its permissions before the transfer occurred, so it couldnt carry 
out the transfer but County Capital could. County Capital agreed to take on the 
advice process and used its permissions to carry out the transfer. Therefore, 
regardless of West Wales involvement, I said it is ultimately responsible for the 
transfer.
Regardless of the doubts I had about County Capitals figures and yields, the critical 
yields represented a level of risk that meant the transfer wasnt in Mr Es best 
interests.
The SIPP selected was also unsuitable for Mr Es needs, it was expensive and a 
DFM had been recommended. I didnt think this was required with the extra costs 
that came with it.
I didnt think the perceived advantage of flexibility, control of income and a lump sum 
on death outweighed the guaranteed benefits in the scheme. Mr Es income needs 
could have been met by well-planned access to his different types of accrued 
benefits by the time he came to retire.
I acknowledged West Wales significant involvement in the transfer. But had County 
Capital communicated directly with Mr E, as I think it shouldve done so rather than 
relying on West Wales, I thought Mr E wouldve followed its recommendation. So, it 
was fair to hold it wholly responsible for the unsuitable advice.
County Capital in response made numerous points which Ive read and thought about 
carefully. But its not necessary to include them all here (to do so will make for a very 
unwieldy decision to read), so I have selected those that I consider most relevant:
The ombudsman has not considered the fact that if Mr E were to move in to the 
BSPS2 and wanted to transfer out in the future, the transfer value would potentially 
be significantly lower.
Mr E had already received information from the BSPS trustees, so the advice 
County Capital gave wasnt in isolation. 
It also meant that Mr E had many months to consider his decision.
It disagrees Mr E wasnt given sufficient information. Its Pension Transfer Report 
set out a clear analysis and comparison of the benefits offered. 
Mr E was also provided with a personalised illustration by the trustees of the 
benefits provided by BSPS2 and the PPF, and an explanation of how to decide 
which choice might be best for him.
The ombudsman had raised concerns about how the figures had been reached 
in County Capitals TVAS. It used the CETV value and reduced the figures by 
10% as it was based on Mr E going into the PPF. It says this was the only way 
to project the benefits. It thinks the figures within the Time to Choose exercise 
could well have been wrong.
It is wrong to say the business relied on growth every year  its retirement 
modelling built in fluctuations in the market.
It didnt agree it failed to consider the presumption of unsuitability. As on receipt 
of the pension transfer and risk questionnaires it determined Mr E was better off 
remaining in the scheme.
It did consider Mr Es other pension benefits. Its cash flow models presented to 
Mr E showed the funds from Mr Es new DC scheme.
Its cash flow models showed a significant improvement on transfer than Mr Es 
benefits remaining within the PPF.
The SIPP was low cost only 0.3% and this was clearly set out.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I see no reason to depart from the outcome reached in my provisional 
decision. 
County Capital made numerous points in relation to my provisional decision. Part of my role 
is to decide what is relevant to the outcome of the case, so Ive not included them all in this 
decision. Some of its points arent relevant to the crux of the complaint as to whether the 
advice was suitable. This is understandable as the provisional decision was a lengthy 
document with a lot of discussion about the advice process  and my understanding of what 
County Capital had and hadnt done. 
Ultimately, I have to decide whether the advice given to Mr E by County Capital was 
suitable.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time County Capital advised Mr 
E were set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like County Capital, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for 
their clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk 
beyond their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, County 
Capital needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met 
Mr Es objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the 
requirement for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process.
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1.
COBS 19.1.2 (08/06/2015) required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder 
pension scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises 
a retail client to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other 
pension scheme with safeguarded benefits;
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able 
to make an informed decision;
(3) giv e the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the 
factors that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any 
case no later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a  retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider 
a transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the client's 
best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or 
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where 
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to 
replicate the benefits being given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(2) a summary of any other material information.
This isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied but provides useful 
context for my assessment of the business' actions here.
County Capital argues that it did start with the presumption of unsuitability. It has relied on 
the fact when Mr E was asked to fill in the risk questionnaire and transfer forms, the West 
Wales adviser said based on what he had completed a transfer wouldnt be viable. But it 
appears to me this was just seen as a hurdle to overcome. After being told he needed to be 
a 4-10 on the risk scale for the transfer to be deemed viable, Mr E did the risk analysis 
again. This time coming out with a higher risk tolerance.
I think acting properly, an adviser ought to have explored Mr Es attitude to risk more 
thoroughly. If an adviser approached this situation with the presumption of unsuitability, I 
dont think simply getting Mr E to fill in the risk analysis unaided again wouldve been the 
course of action taken. 
The suitability report appears to justify moving straight into discussions about transferring as 
Mr E had already indicated this is what he wanted to do. But Mr E was paying for expert 
advice not someone to arrange a transfer for him. 
In County Capitals responses to the provisional decision, it has made a number of points 
about what Mr E knew and it being Mr Es decision to transfer. But it was meant to be the 
expert, giving Mr E advice about what his best course of action was. It is not a defence to 
say that Mr E wanted to transfer, and he had the information available to decide from the 
BSPS trustees. If County Capital wished to rely on that it wouldve needed to go down the 
insistent client route. However, I think its clear that Mr E wasnt an insistent client. And it 
seems to me that Mr E was wholly reliant on the advice given to him by West Wales and 
County Capital.County Capital compared Mr Es benefits with the PPF but at the time of advice Mr E had 
already selected to join the BSPS2, County Capital were seemingly unaware of this. Which 
in my view is linked to the failings in the advice process. County Capital didnt have any 
direct contact with Mr E at the time of advice bar a very short phone call. It relied on the 
information from the West Wales adviser and its calculations of Mr Es estimated benefits 
drawn from the CETV. 
I have many concerns about the accuracy of the figures presented to Mr E. County Capital 
has also heavily relied on the TVAS report, but the suitability report shouldve set out clearly 
what Mr Es entitlement was, it didnt. And the TVAS report also contained erroneous and 
unclear information. For example, the suitability report said the BSPS yields were calculated 
on the BSPS going into the PPF, yet the TVAS report had separate critical yields for the PPF 
as well. This simply doesnt make sense. And the purported BSPS figures at early retirement 
were higher than the PPF figures (although framed as the BSPS going into the PPF in the 
suitability report). Yet the PPF had more favourable early retirement factors.
The difference between the figures County Capital has relied upon for the BSPS (and PPF 
via a 10% reduction) when compared to his entitlement set out by the BSPS trustees for 
BSPS2 in his time to choose booklet is stark. This doesnt make sense, which is another 
reason I have my concerns about the figures.
Within BSPS2 at normal retirement age of 65, it was estimated he could receive £22,063.67 
p.a or £102,000 tax free cash and a reduced annuity of £15,297.65. At early retirement of 
age 55, £13,492.87 p.a  or £66,751.53 tax-free cash and a reduced annuity of £10,012.73.
Compare this to the figures set out in the TVAS report. At age 65 Mr E could likely receive 
£17,700 or a reduced income of £14,060 and tax-free cash of £93,750. At 57 (recorded as 
Mr Es desired retirement date so no figures were calculated at 55) an annual pension of 
£12,750 or £71,500 as tax free cash and a reduced pension of £10,735.
County Capital have said the figures given for the BSPS2 entitlement could well be wrong 
but gave no evidence or reason to substantiate this. It also said it couldnt use these figures 
in the TVAS as these were estimated benefits. Im not aware of the figures given to 
members in the time to choose booklets being unreliable. Mr E has said he wasnt sure 
what his entitlement under the BSPS schemes were and it is up for debate whether County 
Capital did either. But regardless of the figures used in the TVAS  in any event Ive 
considered the advice using the figures and yields County Capital presented and I still think 
it was unsuitable.
Had the trustees figures included with Mr Es your time to choose booklet been used, the 
critical yield wouldve been quite a bit higher. Nevertheless, the critical yield was calculated 
to be at age 65 if Mr E joined the PPF, 4.65% for benefits taken as a pension and 4.39% for 
a pension and tax free cash. And at 57 a critical yield of 5.7% or 5.45% if tax-free cash 
taken. The adviser said that was achievable.
At the time of advice, Mr E was around 16 years away from the intended retirement age of
57. And County Capitals advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final 
Guidance FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss 
assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to 
October 2017 similar rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our 
website. Whilst County Capital werent required to refer to these rates when giving advice on 
pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates wouldve been 
considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case. For Mr E retiring 
at age 57 the closest discount rate from September 2017 was 4.3%, so the advisers 
statement that the critical yields at age 57 were achievable is questionable to say the least.The advisers recommendation is based on returns of 5% per annum from the recommended 
SIPP, which is the approved FCA mid-range growth rate. This projects a fund value of 
£538,000 at age 57. The adviser recommended strategy was that Mr E go into a flexible 
drawdown at 57 and take a regular net income of £25,000 p.a. which would represent a 
withdrawal rate of circa 4% p.a. He said he believed this to be a sustainable withdrawal rate.
Mr E could then reduce his withdrawals from age 67 as his income would then be supported 
by his state pension. The adviser said hed modelled a number of cash flow scenarios which 
indicated that Mr E would be in a better position financially than remaining in the PPF.
However, this relied on growth every year to retirement and beyond (when in drawdown) 
above the discount rate which is a good marker for what is reasonably achievable. And 
reducing income withdrawals at 67, whereas in the BSPS income would remain constant for 
life. So there is a not unsubstantial level of risk involved here. I dont think this risk was 
adequately explained to Mr E. And had it been explained, I think Mr E wouldve been 
concerned about the level of risk involved.
County Capital has said its modelling took into account market fluctuations and so didnt 
require growth every year. I dont think this is particularly relevant to the point I made. 
Regardless of whether its modelling included fluctuations, the fact remains that the yields 
required were on average above what was considered likely and this was required over a 
number of years. And whilst County Capital are relying on their cash-flow modelling, this was 
based on a comparison with the wrong scheme, Mr E wasnt going to be joining the PFF. 
The figures used wont have been accurate. Also, past performance is no guarantee for 
future performance and so I consider the discount rates and the regulators standard 
projections to be more realistic in this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic 
returns forward.
The risk involved is highlighted when you look at the illustration provided by the SIPP 
provider in real terms i.e including inflation and charges, the SIPP providers illustration at its 
mid-growth rate showed an estimated fund at age 75 of just £412,000.
This means that in real terms if the levels of growth only matched the lower/mid rate, Mr Es 
buying power at retirement would be significantly eroded over time by not only inflation, but 
the charges involved in this arrangement. Whereas the guaranteed benefits within BSPS2 
had revaluation rates that wouldve broadly matched inflation and no charges to consider. 
Looking at the yields involved and Mr Es attitude to risk, I dont think the advice to transfer 
can be justified on the basis that the yields were achievable. Even if I were to accept Mr Es 
categorisation as a balanced investor (I have my concerns about the way in which the risk 
analysis was carried out and its result - but regardless I dont think the advice was suitable 
so its a moot point) and the figures used for the BSPS entitlement as correct, the risks Mr E 
was taking on here was beyond that of what I consider suitable for a balanced investor. Mr E 
needed growth above the discount rate for potentially 40+ years just to match the 
guaranteed benefits hed given up. So I dont agree with County Capitals belief that the 
yields involved meant that transferring was in Mr Es best interests.
Furthermore, to make the transfer viable, there would need to be a reasonably achievable 
opportunity of not just matching the yields but beating them in order to improve the benefits, 
otherwise why take this risk over the guarantees offered by the defined benefit scheme. I 
dont think its likely this was reasonably achievable given the yields involved.
County Capital says Ive not considered that the transfer value offered by BSPS was 
enhanced. But my view was that even with the enhanced transfer value the advice to transfer wasnt in Mr Es best interests. Just because a transfer value is enhanced and this 
enhancement will be lost in future, doesnt mean that a transfer will be suitable.
County Capital has also argued West Wales were also responsible for the advice and it was 
entitled to rely on the information it was given by it. Id agree generally its reasonable to rely 
on information gathered by another party such as the fact-find and details regarding the 
customer, if theres no valid reason to doubt this. But in taking on the responsibility for a 
Defined Benefit transfer, it is still ultimately responsible for the suitability of advice. And 
County Capitals recommended a different product and produced a new suitability report. 
County Capital shouldnt have just relied on the advice being suitable because the West 
Wales adviser had reached that conclusion.
COBs says on this matter:
COBS 2.4.6(2): A firm will be taken to be in compliance with any rule in this 
sourcebook that requires it to obtain information if it can show it was 
reasonable for it to rely upon information provided to it in writing by another 
person.
COBS 2.4.8: It will generally be reasonable (in accordance with COBS 
2.4.6R(2)) for a firm to rely on information provided to it in writing by an 
unconnected authorised person or a professional person, unless it is aware or 
ought reasonably to be aware of any fact that would give reasonable grounds 
to question the accuracy of that information.
So, COBS says it can rely on information, if it has no reasonable grounds to question the 
accuracy of that information. West Wales at this point had already relinquished its 
permissions to carry out Defined Benefit transfers after the FCA investigated their practices. 
When taking on business from a firm that had lost its permissions due to issues with the 
exact business being taken on, this ought to flag up that care may be required before 
continuing to rely on an adviser from that firm for this business. And before relying on this 
firm for the majority of the contact with your client whilst following the same path it had taken, 
in recommending a transfer.
County Capital argues we havent fairly considered West Wales involvement. But I dont 
agree that West Wales initial involvement before, and continued involvement after, losing its 
permissions, decreases or absolves County Capital of its responsibility. And in this decision 
Im required to consider its conduct and not West Wales. County Capital set out its own 
advice and recommendations, recommending a different product to that initially 
recommended by West Wales. West Wales had lost its permissions before the transfer 
occurred, so it couldnt carry out the transfer, but County Capital could. County Capital 
agreed to take on the advice process and used its permissions to carry out the transfer. 
Therefore, regardless of West Wales involvement here, I think it is ultimately responsible for 
the transfer.
It appears the entirety of County Capitals direct engagement with Mr E before the transfer 
occurred was a two minute phone call (the suitability report and TVAS were dated two days 
before the transfer deadline so by this point it was too late for any further consideration if the 
transfer was to take place). Mr E had said hed not seen the suitability report, County Capital 
said hed signed it. But the copy we were presented with was unsigned.
Considering the importance of the advice to Mr Es retirement planning, the value involved, 
the sensitivities around Defined Benefit transfers and that County Capital was being paid to provide expert advice, I dont think its a particularly strong defence to say it relied upon West 
Wales.
It appears to me, from the above, that the recommendation to transfer was an inevitability 
and pre-decided from the moment County Capital became involved. It didnt plan to, nor did 
it, challenge any of the conclusions reached by West Wales. It appears it relied on the West 
Wales adviser  despite County Capital being the firm responsible for the transfer. That 
seems to me to be a poor decision considering the circumstances.
In addition, I also think the fees involved with the SIPP and investment strategy were 
unsuitable for his needs. One of Mr Es objectives was to invest his pension within a 
competitively charged product. Shortly after the transfer, once agency for the SIPP was 
passed back to West Wales, Mr E complained about the fees as they hadnt been explained 
to him and were costing much more than he expected. 
The suitability report failed to clearly set out all the relevant product fees, and the adviser 
fees were also omitted (although they were set out in a separate schedule). Mr E wouldve 
needed to look thoroughly into the TVAS report to find information about the DFM fee. And 
Mr E said he wasnt provided with this in any event. I also dont think Mr E had any need for 
Discretionary Fund Management (DFM), this tends to be more suitable for more experienced 
investors. Due to the higher charges associated with a DFM, Mr Es investments needed to 
keep outperforming the cheaper alternatives. I appreciate actively managed funds can 
outperform insurers managed funds. However, equally theres the risk they dont. And 
theres nothing to suggest Mr Es portfolio would give improved performance to overcome 
these higher charges and provide strong returns. 
In transferring from the BSPS which incurred no costs, Mr E would now be taking on a 
transfer charge of 2.25%, a SIPP fee of 0.3%, a DFM fee of 0.68% and an ongoing 
adviser charge of 0.75%. Mr E and the investigator also believed there was an additional 
charge of 0.6% as a portfolio fee but looking at the illustrations and the later explanations 
to Mr E, it appears this fee was the same as the DFM fee. It seems inconsistent use of 
terminology led to this belief that it was an additional fee. County Capitals argues the 
SIPP was a cheap product as the fee was 0.3% but this completely ignores the others 
costs its recommendation brought about.
These fees reduce the likelihood of Mr E improving his benefits in retirement and meeting 
the critical yields required. I also dont think the adviser fairly drew Mr Es attention to the 
potential effects of these charges in transferring. 
The requirement for flexibility, early retirement and death benefits
Ive also considered whether the transfer can be justified due to better meeting Mr Es 
collective objectives in a way that the BSPS2 couldnt, regardless of the achievability of 
the yields.
County Capital has said Mr E was keen to ensure that he could retire early  at age 57 
 and take his income flexibly, to secure an income in retirement of £18,000. And 
protect his family in the event of his death.
The figure of £18,000 doesnt seem to have any real basis, it came from Mr E (which he said 
was a guess) rather than any particular modelling of what he would require. However, I do 
accept that early retirement was an important objective for Mr E, and I think the earlier he 
could retire comfortably the better as far as he was concerned. Hed also talked about 
getting a part-time job between early retirement and state pension/other pension benefits 
kicking in.Having considered Mr Es objectives, I think they couldve been better met by remaining in 
the BSPS2 and without risking his guaranteed income in retirement.
I acknowledge that there was no ability for Mr E to take tax-free cash from the BSPS 2 early 
without also starting to take an income. And I accept that, if Mr E did in fact reduce his 
income at age 57 by retiring and/or working part-time elsewhere, this would have a big 
impact on the household finances. But by age 57, Mr E would have accrued approximately 
17 years worth of defined contributions in the replacement scheme. And so its likely that he 
could have relied on the proceeds of this, from age 57 (if needed he could supplement his 
income with a part-time job which Mr E said hed consider) and then taken guaranteed 
benefits from the BSPS 2 when needed.
Its difficult to say some 16 years before, whether Mr Es DC scheme will produce income of
£18,000 from age 57 to 65  but as Ive said he could have supplemented this by working 
part-time as hed suggested. But in any event, Mr E didnt need to decide yet. He was only 
41, its clear he didnt have a robust plan in his mind for retirement and retirement plans 
made some 16 years in advance are subject to change. But instead the adviser 
recommended a transfer, which meant his main source of retirement provision for him and 
his family, was put at risk based on estimated returns that may or may not be met. I think this 
advice was wholly unsuitable considering Mr Es circumstances. And no consideration was 
made of other ways of meeting his potential requirements at retirement. 
Death benefits were also stated as a reason to transfer. But no clarification or reasoning was 
given in the suitability report as to why transferring would be beneficial in this regard, other 
than it will give greater death benefits.
After the transfer, a lump sum would be payable to Mr Es beneficiaries, rather than in the 
form of dependants pensions from the scheme. But there are two issues here  the first is 
that, Mr E had no particular health issues which would mean that death benefits for a 41-
year-old were of concern at that point. The second is that the benefits provided by the 
BSPS were valuable, this wasnt recognised by the adviser. A lump sum may have its 
appeal  and I recognise that in some situations the ability to pass a lump sum to a 
beneficiary or to the estate could be particularly advantageous when compared to an 
income stream through the spouses pension. But a pension for Mr Es wife for life, a 
dependants pension for his children until they left full time education, and a lump sum 
return of his own contributions would also have been of great benefit. Additionally, Mr E 
had valuable death in service cover through his employer.
Moreover, pension provision is intended to provide for an individuals retirement rather 
than a desire to leave a lump sum for the family. The financial wellbeing of the children 
(and his wife upon his death) would inevitably have been a priority for Mr E but the 
recommendation needed to be given in the context of  primarily - Mr Es best interests 
in terms of his retirement needs.
In conclusion, I dont think considering Mr Es circumstances at the time, the availability 
of a lump sum on death justifies giving up the guaranteed benefits within BSPS2.
What should County Capital have done  and would it have made a difference to Mr 
Es decision?
I think its fair to note that it appears Mr E came to the discussions with West Wales and then 
County Capital with a leaning to transfer. Hes said he was concerned about the BSPS 
situation, others were transferring and in his communications with the adviser I can see that he was keen to get the transfer through. But this came from a position of unfamiliarity, 
inexperience and some panic. 
There were understandably concerns relating to the BSPS around the time of the advice - 
and I fully acknowledge this. Its undeniable that this was a period of great uncertainty for 
individuals such as Mr E. But this only serves to emphasise the need for a balanced 
assessment of the options available and, ultimately, suitable advice.
But Mr Es concerns around this should have been managed appropriately. I appreciate that 
there will be instances where a client seeks financial advice with preconceived notions or 
concerns about the financial health of an employer or pension scheme, but as the 
professional party, the adviser is tasked with rationally addressing those concerns and 
providing an appropriately balanced view of the available options. I dont think this happened 
here.
At the point of transfer advice, the BSPS2 had been announced and Mr E had committed to 
join. There was always a small chance that it would fall into the PPF but at this point the 
situation with BSPS had been stabilised and it was expected BSPS2 would begin as 
planned.
Ive also thought very carefully about whether the service provided to Mr E was a balanced 
appraisal of the options available to him  after all, this had been the purpose of the 
consultation.
Having done so I dont think it was. Many of the recorded objectives were in any case 
achievable within the BSPS. Tax free cash was available from his scheme benefits, and 
growth over the medium to long term would be achieved by way of regular revaluations. And 
he was able to add to his retirement provision through his membership of his current 
employers scheme. Death benefits were also payable from the BSPS, albeit in a different 
format from those available from a Personal Pension or SIPP.
Furthermore, Mr Es entitlement under the BSPS scheme was never set out in a clear format 
and it appears the benefits were under-stated. As the figures supplied by the BSPS2 
trustees were someway in excess of those quoted in the TVAS report. And the suitability 
report was based on Mr E going into the PPF.
For the reasons given above, I dont think the perceived advantage of flexibility, control of 
income and a lump sum of death outweighed the guaranteed benefits in the scheme. And 
Im satisfied that Mr Es income needs could have been comfortably met by well-planned 
access to his different types of accrued benefits by the time he came to retire.
My further view is that, if properly discussed, Mr Es concerns about the existing scheme 
could have been successfully allayed, such that he appreciated the important guaranteed 
benefits, even if he went into the PPF, which he would be giving up for the sake of income 
flexibility which couldve in any case been accessed in other ways without losing his valuable 
guarantees. His future pension which would be entirely dependent upon investment returns 
 rather than being partially dependent through the defined contribution scheme. Mr E simply 
wasnt placed in a properly informed, or suitably advised, position to make an informed 
decision on his options.
County Capital says that it wasnt wholly responsible and West Wales part in the process 
needs to be recognised. Ive therefore considered whether Mr E wouldve come to a different 
decision had County Capital gave suitable advice. Or whether Mr E was set on this path 
regardless of what County Capital did.When Mr E became a customer of County Capital, he already knew that West Wales had 
lost its permissions to carry out DB pension transfers and in essence to give advice on this 
subject. So, I think its reasonable to say his trust in their capability wouldnt have been high 
at this point. Whereas County Capital had no such issue.
If County Capital had produced a balanced appraisal of his options (unlike what had come 
before) and explained the valuable guarantees he had within the BSPS2; and a fair 
assessment had been made on the risk involved and likelihood of him improving on those 
guaranteed benefits; Alongside a discussion of his other retirement provision options. I think 
Mr E wouldve likely have had more confidence and placed greater weight on County 
Capitals recommendation than West Wales prior advice. And he wouldve likely accepted a 
recommendation to remain in the BSPS2 after having his options properly considered and 
explained.
Summary
For the reasons given, my view is that a fair and reasonable assessment of this case 
leads to a clear conclusion  that the recommendation to transfer wasnt suitable for Mr E, 
nor was it in his best interests. 
Putting things right
My aim to is put Mr E, as closely as possible, into the position hed be but for County 
Capitals unsuitable advice. Reinstatement of Mr Es deferred benefits isnt possible. 
Therefore, County Capital should undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
For the reasons set out above, I think its likely that, properly advised, Mr E would have 
envisaged accessing his defined contribution scheme benefits to make up any income 
shortfall in the period between retirement and starting to take his defined benefits, which 
could then have been deferred until normal scheme retirement age.
In terms of death benefits, under the BPSP 2 his spouses pension would be set at 50% of 
his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken 
at retirement.
As such, the calculation on the basis of Mr E remaining within the BSPS 2 should be carried 
out using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of the actual calculation. County 
Capital may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Es 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Es SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any future loss 
should if possible be paid into Mr Es pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect 
of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. If a payment into the 
pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it should be paid directly to 
Mr E as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for future income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax 
free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Es likely income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the 
future loss adequately reflects this.The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr E within 90 days of the date 
County Capital receives notification of his acceptance of any final decision. Further interest 
must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date 
of any final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of that 90 day period, 
that it takes County Capital to pay Mr E.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award:
I require County Capital to pay Mr E the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000. Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, 
I additionally require County Capital to pay Mr E any interest on that amount in full, as set 
out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require County Capital to 
pay Mr E any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation:
If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I recommend that County Capital pays Mr E 
the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this 
balance to be paid to Mr E. If Mr E were to accept a final decision on the above basis, the 
money award would be binding on County Capital. My recommendation would not be 
binding on County Capital. Further, its unlikely that Mr E could accept my decision and go to 
court to ask for the balance. Mr E may want to consider getting independent legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept my final decision.
I also agree with the investigator that County Capital should also pay Mr E £300 to 
acknowledge the trouble and upset caused by the unsuitable advice.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Es complaint against County Capital Wealth Management Limited and direct it 
to put matters right as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman