DRN-3813980
The complaint
Mr R complains about the information Aviva Insurance Limited gave him when he discussed 
a potential claim on his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr R was involved in a collision with a cyclist who was using a rental bike. Mr R said the 
cyclist crashed into his car and then rode off, but Mr R managed to get the bike number and 
so he let Aviva know about the claim. 
Aviva called Mr R to get more information about the claim, but it wasnt a convenient time to 
talk so Mr R called Aviva back. Over the next week or so there were a few calls between Mr 
R and Aviva about the claim. Aviva had told Mr R it was likely to be difficult to recover their 
costs from the cyclist from their experience. Because of this Aviva said his claim would be 
recorded as a fault claim if he claimed for the damage to his car and they couldnt recover 
the costs from the third party. During the calls Aviva also told Mr R the cyclist had made a 
personal injury claim against his policy and that Mr R had admitted liability for the accident.  
Mr R wasnt happy with what Aviva had told him and complained. He said he hadnt admitted 
liability and the cyclist had crashed into his car, so he didnt agree he was at fault. He also 
said he didnt want to claim for the damage to his car if it meant hed have a fault claim as 
the damage was minor.  
Aviva issued a final response to the complaint and upheld it. Aviva acknowledged that Mr R 
hadnt admitted liability for the accident and apologised that hed been told he had. They also 
confirmed there hadnt been a personal injury claim made by the third party, but what had 
actually happened is theyd opened one on their system in case one came in as is standard 
practice for them. Aviva offered Mr R £150 as an apology. This was then increased to £200. 
Not happy with Avivas response, Mr R referred his complaint here. He said a few days after 
the incident the cyclist had threatened him with a knife which hed reported to the Police. He 
said because of Avivas error hed wasted time letting the Police know the third party had put 
in a personal injury claim when they hadnt. He also said Aviva hadnt called back when they 
said they would and didnt think the compensation offered was enough. 
Our Investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommended Aviva increase the 
compensation offered. She noted that as Mr R had now said he didnt want to claim Aviva 
had agreed to remove the cost theyd incurred requesting a Police report and said theyd 
record the claim as notification only, as long as no claim came in from the third party. She 
also found Aviva had said they had tried to contact the company who owned the rental bike 
to see if they could identify the rider. 
Our investigator thought that, while Aviva had acted fairly and reasonably in making attempts 
to recover any outlay they may have, there were some failings in the information Aviva had 
given to Mr R. Because of this she agreed Aviva needed to put things right but was satisfied 
Avivas offer of £200 was fair and reasonable compensation for the unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience Mr R had suffered. 
Mr R didnt agree. He said at the time of the calls with Aviva his son had been born 
prematurely and he needed to attend hospital to see him. He also said he had been 
concerned for his safety following the knife attack and hadnt been leaving the house but 
then had done due to the incorrect information Aviva gave. He said this had all caused him 
significant distress and inconvenience. 
As Mr R didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy, like most policies we see, give Aviva the right to 
take over the defence or settlement of any claim, as they see fit. That means they might 
make a decision Mr R disagrees with and not try to recover their outlay or settle a claim from 
the third party or their insurer. But wed look at whether Aviva made a reasonable decision in 
doing this based on the evidence they had and the circumstances of the case.
Ive listened to the calls Mr R had with Aviva and Mr R told Aviva a cyclist on a rental bike 
crashed into his car and he provided them with the bike number. During the calls I think 
Aviva have tried to be helpful to Mr R by explaining the possible outcome so hes aware. 
However, I can also see Aviva made some errors during the calls and told Mr R hed 
admitted liability when he hadnt and said the third party had put in a personal injury claim in 
when they hadnt. Mr Rs also said Aviva has promised to call back but then havent, so Ive 
also considered this when looking into whether Avivas offer is fair and reasonable. 
I can see that Aviva have now agreed to record the claim as notification only, as long as no 
third party claim is received. And theyve contacted the business who owns the rental bike to 
try and identify the rider and see if they can recover any potential outlay. As Mr R has 
confirmed he doesnt want to claim for the damage to his car, Im satisfied Aviva have made 
a fair and reasonable decision which is in line with terms and conditions of his policy. 
Due to the errors Aviva made in the calls Ive looked at the impact the errors have had on Mr 
R. I would like to assure Mr R that I understand this would be an extremely difficult time for 
him for the reasons hes explained. But Im not going to tell Aviva to pay more than they 
have offered already. I say this because while Aviva did make some errors, these were 
rectified within a couple of weeks. During the call where Aviva made the errors the advisor 
also acknowledges what Mr R said and explains she would need to read the whole file to 
confirm exactly what has happened. And when taking into account all the errors Aviva has 
made overall, including in the calls and Mr R saying hed not received call backs when he 
should, Im satisfied £200 is fair and reasonable compensation for the unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience they caused. So, Im not going to tell them to pay anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that £200 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience cause. Aviva Insurance 
Limited need to pay this to Mr R if they have not already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Alex NewmanOmbudsman