DRN-4229791
The complaint
Ms R has complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance (BPF) has unfairly turned down her claim under the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (CCA).
What happened
Ms R, along with another, bought a timeshare membership from a timeshare supplier (the 
Supplier) in September 2006. The total cost of membership was £22,327, which was paid 
by Ms R taking out a loan in her sole name for that amount with BPF. This was repaid in full 
in August 2007.
In April 2022, Ms R (using a professional representative (PR)) made a claim against BPF 
under the CCA. In particular, it was said:
The Supplier had been found to have undertaken fraud in Spain to circumvent 
consumer protection legislation by selling timeshare memberships as investments.
Here the membership sold to Ms R was sold on the basis that it was an asset 
capable of being resold by the Supplier and at a profit.
It was important to Ms R that the Supplier resold the timeshare for her. She would not 
have bought it otherwise
A number of representations were made to Ms R to induce her to take out 
membership, including that the membership was in great demand and that it was a 
no lose situation, so she would get her money back. Ms R was told that the product 
was self-financing, meaning the sale would cover the loan cost.
Ms R was told that the membership would be sold before maintenance became due 
and that the Supplier was experienced at selling this type of properly quickly and for 
a profit. It was said that the loan taken to pay for membership was short-term and it 
would be repaid in full from the proceeds of sale. Ms R was told that the investment 
would be realised the following year, or within a few years time at least.
PR also alleged that it was represented to Ms R that the Supplier was a bona fide, 
reputable and solvent company.
All off these representations turned out to be false and BPF were therefore 
responsible for answering a claim for misrepresentation under s.75 CCA. Further, 
the failure of the Supplier to arrange the sale was a breach of contract that BPF was 
also responsible for under s.75 CCA.
The Supplier went into liquidation in 2020, at which time Ms R realised that she had 
been misled over the fact that her membership had been listed for resale and that 
there was an active resale market.
PR argues that the Supplier deliberately concealed the matters around the resale 
market from Ms R, and so she can rely on s.32 Limitation Act 1980 (LA) to extend 
the time to make a claim. Part of the deceit was that the Supplier was telling different 
things to different customers and this could only be discovered years later when 
different recollections can be compared and contrasted.
PR also said there was an unfair debtor-creditor relationship between Ms R and BPF 
as set out in s.140A CCA. This was down the problems set out above, unfairness in 
the terms of the membership and breaches of Spanish law. 
BPF responded to the claim. It said that the claims made for misrepresentation and for an 
unfair debtor-creditor relationship were brought too late under the provisions set out in the 
LA. It accepted that, when the Supplier went into liquidation, some of the accommodation 
available under the timeshare memberships was lost. But there was no evidence Ms R had 
been affected, so if didnt think shed suffered a loss due to a breach of contract.
Unhappy with the outcome of BPFs investigation into her claim, Ms R brought a complaint to 
our service. One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt think BPF needed 
to do anything further. He agreed that the claims made under s.75 CCA had been brought 
too late as he thought that Ms R had six years to bring those claims, but didnt do so until 
well after that time had passed. He considered s.32 LA, but didnt think it helped Ms R to 
argue that her claim was brought in time. He also thought that s.140A CCA didnt apply to 
Ms Rs loan as it was closed before the date when s.140A CCA came into effect for loans 
such as hers.
PR disagreed and provided submissions as to why it thought s.32 LA extended the time to 
bring Ms Rs claims. PR also asked for an ombudsman to reconsider Ms Rs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules that govern how I decide complaints, I must take account of law and 
regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good 
industry practice, when I make my decision. 
I also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable outcome. 
So, although I have read everything that has been supplied to me, I may not address every 
point that has been raised.
Several claims have been made to BPF. I will deal with each in turn.
The misrepresentation claims under s.75 CCA
Ms R said that the Suppler misrepresented the nature of the membership to her when she 
bought it and that she has a claim for misrepresentation against the Supplier under the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967 (MA). Under s.75 CCA, BPF could be jointly liable for the 
alleged misrepresentations made by the Supplier. But BPF argued that any claim brought 
was made too late. Ive considered that argument and, having done so, I agree with what 
BPF has said. For the avoidance of doubt, Ive not decided whether the limitation period has 
expired as that would be a matter for the courts should a legal claim be litigated. Rather, Ive 
considered whether BPF has acted fairly in turning down the claim. 
It was held in Green v Eadie & Ors [2011] EWHC B24 (Ch) [2012] Ch 363 that a claim under 
s 2(1) MA is an action founded on tort for the purposes of the LA; therefore, the limitation 
period expires six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued (s.2 LA). 
Here Ms R brought a like claim against BPF under s.75 CCA. The limitation period for the 
corresponding like claim would be the same as the underlying misrepresentation claim. As 
noted at para. 5.145 of Goode: Consumer Credit Law and Practice (Issue 68 (April 2022)) 
the creditor may adopt any defence which would be open to the supplier, including that of 
limitation:
'There is no difficulty in treating the debtor's rights under sub-s (1) as a like claim against the creditor. Since the creditor's liability mirrors the supplier's it follows that, 
to the extent that the supplier has successfully excluded or limited his liability, the 
creditor may shelter behind that exclusion or limitation. Conversely, the creditor's 
right to repayment is so closely connected with the supply contract, and the debtor's 
statutory rights under sub-s (1), that the debtor may assert a right of set-off in 
diminution or extinguishment of his liability to the creditor, and as a defence in 
proceedings brought by the creditor (with or without a counter-claim). Any attempt to 
exclude the right of set-off will fall foul of CCA 1974, s 173(1) (and would in any case 
fall within [section 13(1)(b) of the Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977])'
Therefore, the limitation period for the s.75 claim expires six years from the date on which 
the cause of action accrued.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point at which Ms R entered into the 
agreement to buy the timeshare. It was at that time that she entered into an agreement 
based, she says, on the misrepresentations of the timeshare supplier and suffered a loss. 
She says, had the misrepresentations not been made, she would not have bought the 
timeshare. And it was on that day that she suffered a loss, as she took out the loan 
agreement with BPF that she was bound to and would have never taken out but for the 
misrepresentations. It follows, therefore, that the cause of action accrued in September 
2006, so Ms R had six years from then to bring a claim. But she didnt make a claim against 
BPF until April 2022, which was outside of the time limits set out in the LA. So I think BPF 
acted fairly in saying this misrepresentation claim had been brought too late.
The breach of contract claims under s.75 CCA
Ms R has said that her agreement with the Supplier was breached as it failed to resell the 
membership as promised. Alternatively, the representations made became collateral 
contracts that were also breached.
Ms R hasnt set out what steps she took to market or seek to sell her membership. But it 
appears that PR isnt arguing on her behalf that there was a specific point in time when a 
term of the contract was breached, rather it says that the Supplier never had any intention of 
doing what it said it would do and therefore the contract was breached from its inception.
S.5 LA provides a six year limitation period for a breach of contract claim from the date on 
which the cause of action accrued, that being the date the contract was breached. But as PR 
say that happened at the inception of the contract, any claim would have to be brought within 
six years of September 2006. But as that wasnt done, I think BPF acted fairly in turning 
down this breach of contract claim.
Ive also thought about whether any of the representations that the Supplier would sell the 
membership were terms. I cant see that Ms R was given a guaranteed date by which her 
membership would have been sold, but it was said the purchase was an investment which 
could be realised the following year, or within a few years time at least. Im not sure such 
an imprecise promise could form a term of the agreement but, even if it did, any breach 
would have happened much more than six years prior to when Ms R brought a claim.
BPF did say that it would offer compensation if Ms R was able to show that she was entitled 
to use the accommodation rights she had under the membership at the time of the Suppliers 
liquidation. But as I cant see Ms R provided any evidence that the membership was still 
running at that time, nor has Ms R asked me to consider this point further, I cant say that 
BPF needs to pay any compensation for Ms R losing any membership rights.
The claims under s.140A CAAMs Rs loan was repaid in August 2007. But s.140A CCA only applies to loans that were 
either taken out after 6 April 2007 or, if taken out before then, were still open on 6 April 2008. 
As Ms Rs loan falls outside of those categories, s.140A CCA cant apply to her loan.
Could limitation be extended?
The LA provides for extensions of the time limits in certain circumstances. Ive considered 
the facts of this complaint and I dont think the time limits set out above can be extended 
under any of the provisions of the LA. 
I have been asked to consider s.32 LA, which states that, in cases in which an action is 
based on the fraud of the defendant or a fact relevant to the right of action has been 
deliberately concealed from the claimant by the defendant, the limitation period only starts to 
run from when a claimant discovers the fraud or concealment (or could have discovered it 
using reasonable diligence).
It has been argued that the Supplier deliberately concealed its false representations from 
Ms R at the time of sale, in particular PR has uncovered evidence that different people were 
being told different things at the same time. PR has a number of clients that were sold 
timeshare memberships by the Supplier at the same time. In summary, it is alleged that the 
Supplier would tell existing customers that their timeshare memberships in one apartment 
type (Type A) were not reselling in the way anticipated, so they needed to upgrade to a 
different apartment type (Type B) to get a future sale. But at the same time, the Supplier 
told other customers that Type A memberships were a good investment that would lead to a 
return in a short time period. PR says this could only be uncovered once it had spoken to a 
number of the Suppliers customers and realised the inconsistent things being said, therefore 
customers were unable to know what theyd been told was wrong until PR had undertaken 
this exercise.
I think it would be helpful to set out the wording of s.32(1) LA, which deals with the 
postponement of limitation periods in the case of fraud, concealment or mistake:
 where in the case of any action for which a period of limitation is prescribed by 
this Act, either
(a) the action is based upon the fraud of the defendant; or
(b) any fact relevant to the plaintiffs right of action has been deliberately 
concealed from him by the defendant; or
(c) the action is for relief from the consequences of a mistake;
the period of limitation shall not begin to run until the plaintiff has discovered the 
fraud, concealment or mistake (as the case may be) or could with reasonable 
diligence have discovered it.
References in this subsection to the defendant include references to the defendants 
agent and to any person through whom the defendant claims and his agent.
Here, PR alleges that the Supplier committed a fraud and also concealed important matters 
from Ms R. Further, by virtue of s.56 CCA, the Supplier was acting as BPFs agent, so s.32 
LA is engaged. For the purposes of this decision, but without making formal findings, I 
accept that its possible that the Suppliers representations, if wrong, were fraudulent to the 
extent that they were made either with the knowledge they were wrong or simply not caring 
as to their truth. I also accept, for the purposes of this decision, that its possible the Supplier 
said different things to different customers as alleged.Ive also seen advice prepared by counsel for a number of PRs clients dealing with s.32 LA. 
The advice was prepared on the basis that the Supplier deliberately concealed from its 
customers that they werent purchasing a genuine capital asset, that the profitability of the 
investments were not going to be met, that there was no great demand for timeshare 
memberships and that the Supplier was not a bona fide seller of memberships. Again, for the 
purposes of this decision, but without making any formal findings, I accept that its possible 
that the Supplier didnt explain these things to Ms R.
Ive also thought about what Ms R said happened, as set out in PRs letter of claim. She said 
the timeshare membership was sold to her as an investment, in other words it was a capital 
asset capable of being resold and at a profit. Ms R said she was told the only way of 
relinquishing her earlier timeshare was by taking out membership from the Supplier 
(although I cant see any reference is made to an earlier timeshare in any sales 
documentation). The Supplier allegedly said that the membership would be sold at a profit 
(or for at least the purchase price) within a fixed period of time and the Supplier promised 
that the apartments would be sold before maintenance [fees] became due. Further, the 
fundamental selling point was that this purchase was an investment which could be realised 
the following year, or within a few years time at least, upon the resale of the units. In fact, 
nothing was ever resold, and Ms R has said she paid maintenance fees.
Ms R has said that she first knew of these issues when she took advice from PR after the 
Supplier entered liquidation and, as Ive detailed above, PR said some of the concerns could 
only be uncovered once it spoke to multiple customers of the Supplier. But I also need to 
consider whether Ms R, with reasonable due diligence, could have discovered the alleged 
fraud and concealments. Here, I think the essential elements needed for Ms R to bring a 
claim was knowledge that what shed been told was wrong and that shed suffered a loss 
because of it, not that the Supplier said different things to different customers.
Ive not been given any details of attempts Ms R took to sell her membership. But it must 
have been clear to her that, when the membership wasnt sold within two years or a short 
period, or before any maintenance fees were due, what shed been told wasnt right. I cant 
see that Ms R ever asked the Supplier why her membership didnt sell or took steps to 
enquire why. Nor is it alleged by Ms R that, in a similar way to the concerns PR identified in 
its investigations, the Supplier told her that she would have to upgrade or change her 
membership to enable it to sell in the future. The fact that the membership didnt sell within 
the timescales promised would, I find, be something that put Ms R on notice of the need to 
investigate. It was from that point that Ms R should have exercised reasonable diligence to 
find out what had happened. And had she done so at the time, I think she would have been 
able to find out there was no realistic prospect of selling her membership. But I cant see she 
took any steps to investigate what had happened and Ive had no explanation why she did 
nothing further until she came into contact with PR in 2022. 
PR has said that the precise deceit that was held from Ms R was that the Supplier told one 
thing to one customer and then a completely different thing to another and that there was 
never any intention to sell the properties. But that isnt the claim that Ms R makes  rather 
she says that she was told things that induced her to take out membership that subsequently 
turned out not to be true, i.e. a claim for misrepresentation. Here, she must have known 
within a short period of time that the things she was told werent right, namely that the 
properties werent sold for a profit or at all. I cant see that anything about that was 
concealed from Ms R or that the alleged fraudulent misrepresentations werent known to her 
within a short timeframe  she might not have known the precise nature of any the 
background to the alleged fraud, but she would have known there was a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation. 
For s.32 LA to assist her, Ms R would need to show that she couldnt have discovered the alleged frauds or concealments before April 2016, which was six years before her claim was 
made. Bur for the reasons Ive set out above, I think she could have discovered these 
matters within a few years of the membership being taken out and certainly long before April 
2016. I think that any extension of the limitation period Ms R was entitled to under s.32 LA 
would only have been short. It follows I think BPF had a defence to Ms Rs claims and it 
acted fairly in turning them down.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint against Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman