DRN-4359384
The complaint
Mr F complains that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt do enough to protect him from the financial harm 
caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the money once hed 
reported the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Mr F received a WhatsApp message from a woman who claimed to be from a recruitment 
company Ill refer to as R. The scammer explained shed got Mr Fs details from the 
company database and had a freelance opportunity available.
Mr F expressed his interest before receiving another WhatsApp message from someone 
who Ill refer to as the scammer who said he worked for Company A. The scammer showed 
him a platform that appeared to show individual tasks and explained that merchants pay the 
employee to simulate the purchase of items through the platform. The simulated purchases 
improve the algorithms of each product which improves the chance the merchant will be able 
to sell the item.
The scammer told Mr F to add deposits to the platform to simulate buying the items, and 
each task would use up some of the deposit, but a commission would be added to his 
account. She explained he could earn £50 to £200 per day, with $500 on the fifth 
consecutive day and that at the end of a set of 40 tasks, he would have the opportunity to 
withdraw his commission as well as the original deposits.
Mr F was added to a WhatsApp group with other freelancers who regularly posted 
screenshots of themselves completing tasks and receiving profits. Mr F noted As website 
was professional looking with a colour scheme and logo that matched a legitimate company. 
The scammer asked him to first purchase cryptocurrency from individuals and then load it 
onto an online wallet. Between 4 February 2023 and 17 February 2023, he made twelve 
payments totalling £10,345.
After Mr F made the initial deposit on 9 February 2023, he made a successful withdrawal of 
£122.10. But, after completing the required tasks, he was asked to make further deposits, at 
which point he realised hed been the victim of a scam. He complained to Monzo arguing it 
had failed to recognise the payments were unusual, but it refused to refund any of the 
money hed lost.
Mr F wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service.  His representative said the 
largest transaction he had previously made from the account was £2,000 to an account in 
his own name, and his monthly income was £1800, so it should have been concerning that 
he suddenly made frequent and large payments totalling over five times his monthly salary. 
They said the running of the account had changed during the scam period as he had never 
sent large funds to an external payee before, and the pattern of behaviour was indicative of 
a scam.
They said that if Monzo had intervened and asked why he was sending the money, Mr F 
hadnt been told to lie and so he would have admitted he was contacted on WhatsApp, he 
was sending money for a job that he was earning commission on, and he received a small 
return. With that information, it would have been obvious this was a job scam and Mr Fs loss 
could have been prevented.
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. She noted Monzo had presented its 
new payee online warning when he set up each new payee, which urged Mr F to consider 
whether someone could be trying to scam him. He was also presented with a second fraud 
warning on some of the payments, again urging him to consider whether he was being 
scammed and to stop if the offer sounded too good to be true or if hed been told to ignore 
warnings. 
She was satisfied the warnings were relevant and she explained that she didnt think Monzo 
needed to intervene until Mr F paid out £2,900 on 12 February 2023 because before that, 
the payments werent unusual when compared with Mr Fs normal account activity. She 
thought Monzo should have contacted Mr F via its online-chat facility as the payment 
represented a significant increase in spending which was beyond his typical expenditure. 
She said it should have asked him why he was sending payments to new payees in a short 
space of time and had it done so, he wouldve explained he was offered a job which required 
him to complete tasks in order to earn commission and that he was required to make 
payments in cryptocurrency.
She thought this represented a missed opportunity to have prevented Mr Fs loss and so she 
recommended Monzo should refund the money Mr F had lost from 12 February 2023 
onwards. However, she thought he could have taken a more cautious approach before 
making the larger payments, so the settlement should be reduced by 50% for contributory 
negligence. 
Monzo has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. It has said the 
payments were sent to private sellers on a P2P platform and were not the scam payments 
and Mr F had received the cryptocurrency from the sellers. It has said it had no way of 
knowing the recipients of the funds were supplying cryptocurrency and it had no visibility 
over Mr Fs other accounts, which is where the fraudulent funds were sent from. So, there 
was no indication the payments were high-risk.
It has argued that Mr F was given sufficient warnings for each new payee and the warnings 
should've raised concerns as he was making payments to people he didnt know. It has 
argued the £2,900 payment on 12 February 2023 wasnt suspicious or out of character and 
that bank accounts are designed to facilitate day to day spending as well as to 
accommodate larger purchases, so it wouldnt have needed to intervene just because he 
was making a larger payment. It also said the pattern of moving funds into the account and 
the timings/frequency of payments wasnt out of character for the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr F says hes fallen victim to, in all 
but a limited number of circumstances. But the CRM code didnt apply in this case because 
Mr F received the cryptocurrency he paid for.
Im satisfied Mr F authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Theres no dispute this was a scam, but although Mr F didnt intend his money to go to 
scammers, he did authorise the disputed payments. Monzo is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the 
victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them 
even though they authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether Monzo could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
altogether. Monzo ought to fairly and reasonably be alert to fraud and scams and these 
payments were part of a wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have 
intervened to warn Mr F when he tried to make the payments. If there are unusual or 
suspicious payments on an account, Id expect Monzo to intervene with a view to protecting 
Mr F from financial harm due to fraud. 
Ive considered the nature of the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or 
uncharacteristic of how Mr F normally ran his account and I think they were. The first eight 
payments were to individuals, so it wouldnt have been obvious that Mr F was buying 
cryptocurrency. And the payments were low value, so I dont think Monzo needed to 
intervene.
But, by the time he made the ninth payment on 12 February 2022, this was the fourth new 
payee Mr F had set up that day and the seventh new payee in eight days. And the largest 
payment he had made in the months prior to the scam was for £1,500 on 6 October 2022, so 
the amount represented an increase in his normal spending habits. So, I think Monzo ought 
to have intervened.
Monzo has explained that it provided a written warning each time Mr F set up a new payee 
and a second warning was triggered on some of the payments including the £2,900. Ive 
looked at these warnings and I accept they include advice about scams. But I agree with our 
investigator that Monzo should have contacted Mr F when he made the ninth payment to ask 
why he was making the payments and as he hadnt been coached to lie I think hed have 
told it she was buying cryptocurrency to make deposits for a job. And with further questions I 
think hed have also disclosed that hed been contacted via WhatsApp and that hed been 
told he could earn up to £200 per day in commission.
This would have been enough information for Monzo to have identified this as a scam and it 
could have told him there were red flags present and provided a tailored scam warning. And 
as theres no evidence Mr F was keen to take risks with his money, I think hed have listened 
to the advice and refused to make any more payments. So, I think Monzos failure to 
intervene represented a missed opportunity to have prevented Mr Fs loss and that it should 
refund the money he lost from the ninth payments onwards.
Contributory negligenceTheres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their decisions and 
conduct suitable due diligence. 
Mr F has said that he was contacted on WhatsApp by someone who said he could make up 
to £200 per day by competing tasks, and that he was required to pay for these tasks by 
making deposits in cryptocurrency. I accept that this was a sophisticated scam, Mr F had 
been able to make a small withdrawal and hed checked the company website and thought it 
looked genuine. But I think he should have asked questions about why he was being 
required to make payments in cryptocurrency and why he wasnt given any employment 
documentation. He was given written warnings each time he set up a new payee and there 
were clear red flags that something wasnt right and if hed done some more research or 
sought some advice from a third-party, possibly Monzo, he might have realised he was being 
scammed.
Because if this I agree with our investigator that the settlement should be reduced by 50% 
for contributory negligence.
My final decision
My final decision is that Monzo Bank Ltd should: 
refund £8,300.
this settlement should be reduced by 50% to reflect contributory negligence.
pay 8% simple interest*, per year, from the respective dates of loss to the date of 
settlement.
*If Monzo Bank Ltd deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it should 
provide Mr F with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman