DRN-4054197
The complaint
Mr L complains about the assistance he received from TransUnion International UK Limited 
with regards to fraudulent entries and CIFAS loadings on his report. Mr L is also unhappy 
with the time it took to add a notice of correction (NOC), and the password being visible on 
his credit file.
What happened
Mr L was unfortunately the victim of impersonation through postal redirection fraud. Some 
fraudulent accounts were opened by different lenders, with entries added to his credit file, 
and a CIFAS marker was also recorded by one. In March 2022 Mr L contacted TransUnion 
to ask for the records of the fraudulent accounts to be removed, and for a NOC with a 
password to be added. 
Over the next few weeks Mr L continued to chase TransUnion, and eventually raised a 
complaint. He also queried the removal of the incorrect CIFAS entry and the delay in adding 
a new protective registration marker. By May 2022 the NOC had been added, and only one 
of the fraudulent entries remained  but Mr L was concerned the password was visible on his 
credit file.
TransUnion upheld Mr Ls complaint and apologised for the delays in adding the NOC. But it 
said the password had to be visible to lenders, so they knew what answer to expect from the 
genuine applicant. TransUnion also didnt agree it was accountable for any delay in the last 
fraudulent entry being removed, as that was the responsibility of the lender. Lastly, it said 
CIFAS controlled the removal and adding of any of those loadings. Mr L wasnt happy with 
the response, so he referred the complaint to our service for review. 
An investigator here considered everything and thought TransUnion needed to do more to 
put things right. He agreed with what TransUnion had said on most aspects of the complaint, 
but thought the delay in adding the NOC warranted compensation. In the investigators view, 
the waiting and chasing wouldve exacerbated an already stressful situation, and had 
affected him particularly. So, to recognise that impact, he recommended TransUnion paid 
£150 compensation.
TransUnion didnt agree, and thought the compensation amount was excessive. So it made 
a counteroffer of £75 to resolve things. Mr L also didnt accept the investigators view, and 
maintained the password should be blacked out. As no agreement could be reached, the 
complaint was passed to me for a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint in part  and for similar reasons as those 
given by the investigator.
It doesnt appear that Mr L is disputing the investigators opinion that TransUnion wasnt 
responsible for the time taken to remove the fraudulent entries, or the issues with the CIFAS 
loadings. But, for clarity, I also havent seen anything that would suggest TransUnion were at 
fault or caused delays in respect of either of those matters. The lender is usually responsible 
for whats reported on a persons credit file  and I can see we investigated that separately 
against the firm in question. I also agree that CIFAS would be Mr Ls first port of call for any 
concerns he has over the removal of an entry and the loading of the protective marker.
Mr L has provided evidence from a third-party platform, which shows the passwords are 
redacted when the NOCs are viewed through that provider (including the password in the 
TransUnion NOC). But I dont consider that shows the passwords are starred out for lenders 
on his actual credit file, when viewed directly through the credit reference agencies  or that 
they should be. 
The wording of the NOC says Mr L will use the password in any genuine application he 
makes. TransUnions website also explains that any password added will be available to 
lenders so they can request it from an applicant as an extra security check. So, logically, the 
lender has to be able to see the password, so that when it is requested from an applicant it 
can know whether the answer provided is correct  and therefore be able to determine Mr L 
is the one making a genuine application. On that basis, I dont find TransUnion has acted 
incorrectly by making the password visible to lenders viewing his credit file.
I appreciate Mr L is very concerned with the security of his financial information, and I can 
understand why after what he went through. But, if its any reassurance, not just anyone can 
view another persons credit file  and the financial service providers that do have access 
leave a footprint when that information is accessed. The password is one extra layer of 
security, but the NOC (and protective registration marker) should also prompt a lender to do 
thorough checks on any application to be sure it is genuine.
Turning to the compensation thats been recommended by the investigator, I consider that to 
be a fair amount in the circumstances. TransUnion has acknowledged it is responsible for 
delays of several weeks in adding the NOC. Its also clear Mr L was chasing the issue 
frequently during that period  out of concern that more fraud might occur. So, an apology 
wouldnt suffice for his wasted time and effort alone. But Mr L was also very worried about 
the potential reoccurrence of what he went through  and those few weeks, before some 
added protection was in place, wouldve been a very distressing wait. 
Our published guidance on these awards say an apology, or a small monetary award (which 
we equate with an apology), might be appropriate to address mistakes which were put right 
quickly and caused minimal impact. I dont think thats what were dealing with here. £150 
compensation puts the award in the next range (the up to £300 bracket). Our guidance says 
that deals with smaller repeated mistakes, or a larger one off error, requiring a reasonable 
effort to sort  and resulting in impact felt over days or even weeks. I think that description is 
commensurate with what Mr L experienced in this case. Having reviewed the example case 
studies set out under that range, I find £150 to be the fair amount in the circumstances for 
the distress and inconvenience TransUnions delays caused him. My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Ls complaint about TransUnion International UK Limited, 
and direct the credit reference agency to pay him £150 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman