DRN-2589613
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC declined two card payments and gave him incorrect 
information over the phone.
What happened
Mr B tried to make a payment for a room at a local lodge using his Lloyds debit card but the 
transaction was declined. He attempted to make the payment again with a different Lloyds 
debit card but this was also declined. Mr B says hes been friends with the manager of the 
lodge for a number of years and the declined payments left him feeling embarrassed and 
frustrated. He eventually paid for the room with cash.
Five days later, Mr B received a text from Lloyds asking him to contact them in relation to a 
payment. Mr B contacted Lloyds who initially said it was in relation to the lodge but then 
when Mr B spoke to a different call handler they said it was actually in relation to a different 
payment which stemmed from a new recipient being added to his account a week earlier. 
Mr B complained to Lloyds who upheld his complaint. Lloyds said his payment was declined 
as he had chip and PIN (Personal Identification Number) enabled cards but the lodge had 
tried to take the payments using the magnetic stripe on the back of the cards and thats why 
the payments didnt go through as a security measure. Mr B added that he had to make 
several trips to the lodge and phone calls to chase Lloyds for answers.
Lloyds credited Mr Bs account with £48.90. This was to cover, the calls he made to their 
0345 number from his landline (£5.40), his journeys to the lodge (totalling 30 miles - £13.50) 
and £30 for the distress and inconvenience caused for the wrong information hed been 
given on the initial phone call. Mr B did not think this fairly reflected the difficulties hed been 
caused. So he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The investigator felt the compensation reflected 
the impact the issues had on Mr B. However, Mr B didnt agree  he wanted £100 to resolve 
the complaint so he asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Ill look at the payment issues. As Mr Bs debit cards were chip and PIN enabled cards 
then the payments should have been taken using the chip and PIN method as opposed to 
using the magnetic swipe method. The latter may in certain circumstances (but not always) 
suggest fraud. I do understand Mr Bs cards werent in the wrong hands here  they were 
genuinely with him and he was trying to make a payment. However, given there werent any 
blocks on the cards (and I have asked Lloyds about this), it does seem the problem lay 
somewhere else and this was sufficient to flag on their systems and for them to have 
exercised caution in rejecting the payments. So, in the circumstances, I dont think I could 
fairly say Lloyds made a mistake.   
I have no doubt Mr B will have suffered embarrassment as a result of the payment being 
declined as well as the inconvenience caused in making trips to the lodge, but given my 
overall conclusion, I cant hold Lloyds responsible for this. Ultimately, how the payment was 
processed (or even if I were to accept there was a problem with the card or reader) I dont 
think this was something the bank had any control over. 
All parties agree that Mr B was given incorrect information about the text message he 
received. So, the right thing to do here would have been for Lloyds to apologise, recognise 
the impact this had and explain what the actual situation was.
Thats what Lloyds then did. They apologised for the wrong information, paid him £30 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused, as well as reimbursing Mr B for the other costs involved 
in him having to call and visit the lodge several times. 
I know that Mr B shouldnt have had to chase Lloyds as he did. I dont think theres any 
disputing that Lloyds shouldve acted sooner by giving him the correct information at the first 
time of asking, but in the circumstances, I think that what Lloyds has done to try and put 
things right is fair and reasonable. I realise that Mr B may feel like the compensation amount 
is too low  but given that eventually things were explained accurately I think its a fair 
amount to compensate him for the inconvenience he had to go through to chase Lloyds.
It follows that Im not going to require Lloyds to do anymore.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman