DRN-4414084
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled 
their claim.
Mr and Mrs C jointly held buildings and contents insurance underwritten by Advantage. For 
ease of reading, Ill refer mainly to Mr C throughout my decision.
What happened
In brief, Mr C claimed under his policy after a leak from the pipe under his kitchen sink 
caused significant damage to his home. He made a claim under his policy, but experienced 
difficulty contacting Advantage, getting responses, using its chat facility, and navigating the 
claims process due to the multiple agents involved.
Advantage registered the claim after a delay of three weeks. On assessing the evidence, it 
declined the claim because Mr Cs evidence confirmed the cause was inadequate soldering 
of the pipe joint. The policy excluded cover for faulty workmanship. 
Mr C complained to Advantage. It offered £50 compensation for the service shortfalls but still 
declined the claim.
Mr C brought his complaint to us. After considering the complaint, our investigator thought 
Advantage had fairly declined the claim in line with the policy, but he said the compensation 
wasn't enough given the time taken to register Mr Cs claim. Our investigator thought £150 
was more appropriate.
Advantage didnt comment. Mr C reluctantly accepted that the policy exclusion applied to his 
claim, but he didnt think the compensation was enough. So the complaint was passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint, but I wont be asking Advantage to 
pay more than our investigator proposed.
Mr C provided evidence which showed the leak was caused by faulty workmanship. The 
policy states:
General exclusions
These exclusions apply throughout your policy. Your insurer won't pay for:
Defective design
Any loss or damage arising from defective design, defective materials, faulty 
workmanship or failure to follow manufacturers' instructions.
Theres no dispute that the inadequate joint was the cause of the leak. While unhappy about 
it, Mr C accepted that the policy exclusion applied. Im satisfied Advantage fairly relied on 
this policy exclusion to decline Mr Cs claim. Therefore, I wont comment further on this 
issue. 
Compensation
The remaining complaint is about the amount of compensation. Advantage offered £50 by 
way of apology for its service shortfalls. Our investigator thought £150 was more 
appropriate. But Mr C didnt think that was enough, and he provided a timeline of events 
highlighting Advantages service shortfalls.
Firstly, Ill explain what the compensation is for. Because the cause of the leak was excluded 
under the policy, Advantage would never have accepted or paid anything towards the claim. 
So it wouldnt have been responsible for any costs associated with the claim, such as 
alternative accommodation costs, the leak repair, or the damage caused by the leak. These 
are all costs that Mr C wouldve incurred regardless of whether he paid for them himself or 
whether he sought redress through the builder or its insurer. Therefore, I cant reasonably 
say Advantage is responsible for compensation in direct relation to those costs.
The regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly, and that they 
mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. The responsibility Advantage had in respect of Mr 
Cs claim was to provide a prompt response. Ive already said the decision would always 
have been to decline the claim, so Ive thought about the impact Mr C said its delay had on 
him and Mrs C.
Looking at the detailed timeline of events, I see it took Advantage almost three weeks to 
properly register Mr Cs claim. While it was a further ten days before Advantage declined the 
claim, that is something it would always have needed time to assess. The avoidable delay 
here is Advantages failure to register the claim. 
From first notification of his claim to the time Advantage properly registered it, Mr C regularly 
attempted contact with Advantage and its agents using email, phone and online chat. 
However, he didnt always receive replies, he felt the chat facility was inappropriate for the 
severity of the claim, and it was unable to cope with his home insurance claim. Mr C said 
Advantages agents didnt communicate with each other and he didnt have a clear 
understanding of the claims process given all the different agents involved.
In its final response to his complaint, Advantage acknowledged it had fallen short in its 
service and offered Mr C £50 compensation. Our investigator thought £150 was more 
appropriate, but Mr C didnt agree. 
If Advantage had registered the claim promptly, Mr C wouldnt have needed to chase 
contact, or experience the difficulties he described. So, for three weeks delay and 
inconvenience, Im satisfied that £150 compensation is fair and reasonable. 
Im sorry to hear that Mr C experienced health problems during this time, and that his home 
wasn't habitable. But it was the leak and resulting damage which caused problems, so I 
wont be asking Advantage to compensate Mr C for the event itself which was caused by 
faulty workmanship.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must:
Pay £150 compensation to Mr and Mrs C for the inconvenience caused by its service 
shortfalls when registering their claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman