DRN-2423947
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Provident) did not 
manage his loan accounts correctly.
  
What happened
Mr C took a number of home credit loans from Provident in 2016 and 2017. It appears that 
Mr C ran into difficulties repaying his loans. The latest information provided by Provident 
shows five of Mr Cs loan accounts were transferred to a third party in November 2018.
Provident initially looked into Mr Cs complaint. Its final response dated 17 April 2019 
detailed the reasons why Mr C was complaining and its rationale for upholding 
14 out of 16 complaint points. By way of an apology, Provident confirmed it would reduce 
Mr Cs outstanding balance by £150.
It appears that Mr C was unhappy with Providents response, so he brought his complaint to 
our Service.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Cs complaint. He thought it was clear to see that there 
were failings by Provident with regards to the service Mr C had received. Whilst Provident 
had offered to repay him £150 as a way of apology, our adjudicator thought that £350 was a 
more representative figure considering the issues and delays Mr C had experienced whilst 
he held his loans.
Provident agreed with our adjudicators opinion. It agreed to reduce Mr Cs loan balance by 
£350 along with an additional £50 due to the delays with the complaint being processed. 
Our adjudicator put Providents offer to Mr C. But Mr C wanted to await correspondence from 
Provident showing the payment had been made. Subsequently, Provident sent letters to 
Mr C detailing the amendments it had made to his outstanding balance. Provident also 
provided our service with a screenshot of Mr Cs account, showing it had deducted £150 
from his overall outstanding balance on 18 April 2019 as agreed in its final response. 
Furthermore, £250 was deducted from Mr Cs loan balance on 18 December 2020 as a 
result of our adjudicators recommendations.
Upon receipt of this information, Mr C informed our service that he wished to review the 
information provided before clarifying how he wished to proceed with his complaint. 
When our service later checked in with Mr C to understand if he still required an 
ombudsmans decision, he implied that his complaint had not been fully resolved to his 
satisfaction as he provided more points for us to consider about his complaint. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr C and his wife have been unwell, and I hope that they are well on 
their way to a speedy recovery. 
It appears that, following our adjudicators opinion, Mr C has some concerns over the way 
his loans were granted and that there is a potential affordability issue. But to be clear, this 
decision will only be focussing on Mr Cs original complaint points about the service he has 
received from Provident. 
Following the adjudicators view, Mr C also re-iterated that he was called a liar by Provident, 
and how it kept opening and closing his complaints. In Providents final response dated 
17 April 2019, it upheld Mr Cs complaint about these points, and agreed that things had 
gone wrong on its part. 
Ive reviewed what the adjudicator has said about the way Provident handled Mr Cs loan 
accounts and what has happened with Mr Cs complaint up until now. Im satisfied that the 
adjudicator has considered all of Mr Cs issues and I agree that the complaint should be 
upheld for the same reasons as the adjudicator. 
The £350 award recognises the fact that Mr C went through unnecessary trouble and upset 
whilst trying to deal with sort out the issues he had with Provident. Its clear to see that Mr C 
has gone to a lot of effort to try to make his repayments, as well as resolve the issues he had 
with his payment book and cheque payments. I also think Providents additional award of 
£50 for the delays in dealing with his complaint seems reasonable considering Mr Cs 
complaint was not progressed in a timely way. 
There seems to be some hesitation about the amount Provident was going to pay towards 
Mr Cs overall loan balance, and also, whether the lender would do what it said it would. But 
Im satisfied that Mr Cs loan balance has been reduced by £400 and that the lender has 
done what was agreed.
As a result, Im satisfied that the award Provident has made is a fair outcome, so I make no 
further award against the lender  
Putting things right
 Provident has already agreed to paid settled the complaint in line with the adjudicators 
recommendation. And based on what Ive seen, it doesnt need to do any more.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint, but I dont think 
Provident Personal Credit Limited needs to make any award beyond what it has already 
done.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman