DRN-3140052
The complaint
Miss S complains about Aviva Insurance Limited Aviva over aspects of its handling of her 
claim. She wants Aviva to meet her further costs and compensate her for her experience.
What happened
Miss S held home insurance with Aviva. This cover included cover for matching sets.
In April 2021, Miss S suffered an escape of water at her home from her dishwasher. 
She alerted Aviva and submitted a claim. 
Aviva appointed a loss adjuster who attended Miss Ss home. The adjuster acknowledged 
some items which had been damaged by water and prepared a report.
Other contractors, B, attended Miss Ss home to instate drying equipment and to test her 
remaining white goods. Whilst there the agent commented that the carpet would be cleaned 
by Aviva, and the floor covering would be replaced. 
Aviva ultimately settled the claim with Miss S, by cash settlement. This included a cash 
settlement for Miss Ss sink unit, which was damaged by the water escape. 
Miss S contacted Aviva about issues she considered outstanding and made a complaint. 
Part of this complaint was that she thought Aviva ought to replace other kitchen units as the 
sink unit had had a particular finish to it. She therefore thought that the remaining kitchen 
units should be replaced under the matching sets cover of her policy.  
Aviva sent a final response to Miss Ss complaints, and paid compensation in relation to part 
of Miss Ss complaint, but some issues remained unresolved. These included that Aviva 
wished to inspect Miss Ss kitchen in order to assess whether additional units needed to be 
replaced. Miss S does not wish Aviva to attend her home again, as the sink unit has been 
removed, and she has provided photographs to demonstrate the finish on the remaining 
units.  
Miss S contacted us. 
Aviva subsequently sent Miss S its final response in September 2021. This repeated that it 
wanted to inspect Miss Ss kitchen before making any further offer in relation to matching 
units. It acknowledged that there had been some delays in responding to Miss Ss 
communication and offered an additional £100 to reflect this. 
Our investigator looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties. This was that 
Aviva had not acted unreasonably in its handling of the claim. She therefore did not 
recommend upholding the complaint. 
Miss S did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read the view of my colleague and Miss Ss responses to it. I have also considered 
the photographs Miss S has sent in, in addition to the evidence provided by the business. 
I understand that this experience has been frustrating and worrying for Miss S. My role, 
however, is to look at whether Aviva has acted in a reasonable way in the circumstances of 
the claim. Only where Aviva has acted wrongly can I direct that it make further amends.  
In respect of the issues of communication, Miss S complained that Avivas agents provided 
her with confusing or misleading information, and that Miss S had to chase updates. This 
included when an agent of Aviva agreed that the carpet ought to be cleaned and commented 
on other areas of potential cover. 
Aviva has demonstrated that the agent was not authorised to comment on those issues, and 
that the agent would return and carry out carpet cleaning. Aviva has made an offer of 
compensation to reflect the periods when Miss S had to chase communication. I think that is 
a reasonable response and it appropriately reflects the additional inconvenience to Miss S. 
Miss S complained that Aviva did not carry out asbestos testing prior to settling the claim. 
Aviva has provided evidence that it did not consider that there was any risk of asbestos in 
the repairs, but that it ultimately agreed with Miss S that she could commission her own 
asbestos testing and it later reimbursed her for this. I think Aviva was entitled to apply its 
expert view on whether testing was necessary, but when requested I think tis decision to 
reimburse Miss S for testing was reasonable. 
In relation to the main issue, which is that Miss S wants the remainder of her kitchen units to 
be replaced to match the replaced sink unit, I have considered the photographs provided. 
These are not clear as to precisely which units they show, but they do demonstrate a 
cracked effect on the shells of remaining kitchen units and plinth. Aviva did not believe that 
the sink unit, which has now been removed, was of this effect and so did not consider that 
the sink unit was part of a matching set in the first place. Miss S has asked Aviva to 
reconsider this and Aviva wants to first inspect the remainder of the kitchen before making 
this decision. 
Whilst I appreciate that Miss S does not want any further inspections of her home, I think 
that it is reasonable for Aviva to want to validate this part of the claim before making any 
further decision. I therefore do not uphold this part of Miss Ss complaint. If she now allows 
and inspection and is unhappy with the resulting offer/decision she would be able to 
complain about any decision made at a later date. 
Finally, Miss S complains that the settlement sum did not include money for the replacement 
of the door frame and walls. Our investigator considered that there was no evidence that 
these had been damaged by the escape of water, and I agree with that view. No further 
evidence has been provided, and so I do not consider Aviva is unreasonable to decline to 
compensate this item. 
Overall, I appreciate that there have been some issues in service in Avivas handling, but I 
think that Aviva has made reasonable offers to compensate those issues in its response to 
the claim and complaint. I therefore do not uphold Miss Ss complaint and do not ask Aviva Insurance Limited to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Miss Ss complaint and do not ask Aviva 
Insurance Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman