The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc closed his bank account and wont return money held 
in the account to him. 
What happened
Mr A had a current account with Santander. Between 5 and 12 March 2019, six faster 
payments totalling just over £4,000 were made into Mr As account. At the time of the first 
deposit Mr As balance was overdrawn by around £10. 
Santander took the view that it needed to look into the payments and how Mr A was 
operating his account. So, on 12 March 2019, the bank blocked Mr As account whilst it did 
that. On the same day, Santander spoke to Mr A and asked him about the origin of the 
money in his accounts. Mr A said he didnt know anything about the six payments and didnt 
know the people whod sent the money to his account. 
Santander then received notifications from a number of other banks saying each of their 
customers had been the victim of fraud  in short money had been transferred from their 
customers account to Mr As without their authorisation. Santander accepted what the other 
banks had said and decided to close Mr As account immediately.
Following the closure of Mr As account, two further payments totalling just over £700 were 
made into it. Mr A told the bank that the money was his wages. Santander asked Mr A to 
provide proof of his entitlement to the money. Mr A gave the bank a letter he said was from 
his employer explaining that the money had been paid to Mr A for work hed done in April 
2019. Santander reviewed the information but werent satisfied it showed he was entitled to 
the money. And asked him to provide his wage slips.
Mr A wasnt happy with this response, so he brought his complaint to our service. An 
investigator looked into Mr As complaint. The investigator reviewed the information Mr A 
had provided and agreed with the banks assessment. He also said that Santander hadnt 
done anything wrong when it reviewed and closed Mr As account. 
Mr A didnt accept the investigators view. He said hed provided all he could about the 
payments into his account. And he wants his money. He also said that the bank shouldnt 
have closed his account. And that hed suffered a great deal of stress, upset and financial 
hardship as a result of the banks actions. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
DRN-2334996reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr A feels very strongly about whats happened here. Thats clear from whats hes 
said to us and to Santander. Whilst I appreciate Mr As frustration, its important to point out 
that the only thing in question here is whether Santander has done what it should have done. 
And I think it has. Ill explain why.
Based on the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied first of all that the six payments made into 
Mr As account were fraudulent  in the sense that the holders of the accounts from which 
they were made either didnt authorise them or were tricked into making them. Their own 
banks wouldve investigated them before reaching that conclusion and contacting 
Santander. Of course, that in itself doesnt mean Mr A was involved or knew about them; it is 
possible to make payments to someones bank account with just the sort code and account 
number. 
Mr A has maintained that he didnt know anything about the payments and doesnt know the 
account holders. He told the bank that he hadnt lost his bank card or given his bank details 
to anyone. Ive thought carefully about what hes said. Having done so I think its unlikely that 
an unknown third party would make six payments from different accounts into Mr As 
account when they would have no means of accessing the money. 
Santander has also highlighted that during this period when the fraudulent payments credit 
his account, Mr A was checking his account balance online and at cash machines, 
frequently, so I think its likely the wouldve been aware of the activity on his account. But he 
didnt report the payments until the bank blocked his account  which I consider significant 
as the payments took Mr As account from being overdrawn to more than £4,000 in credit. 
So, despite what Mr A has told us and the bank, I think it more likely than not he knew rather 
more about the payments than hes told the bank or this service. 
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr As accounts. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Santander closed Mr As account with immediate notice. In my view that was reasonable, 
given the concerns the bank had about how Mr A was operating his account. So, Im 
satisfied Santander treated Mr A fairly in reaching its decision to close the account.
Mr A says the money going into his account after it had been closed was his wages. In 
support of what hes said, hes provided a letter he says is from his employer. Mr A says this 
information proves hes entitled to the money in his account. Santander didnt think the 
information was sufficient, and I can understand the banks concerns. I say this because 
Mr A hasnt provided any payslips showing what hours he worked and when, or a contract of 
employment. I accept that the letter states Mr As employer had experienced delays in 
setting up a proper payroll, but I can also see that Mr A normally received his wages via a 
bank giro credit and not via a faster payment. So, this method of payment does appear out 
of character. 
It maybe that Mr A can now provide more information about the funds in his account to the 
bank.  But, in the circumstances, I can understand why Santander wanted to know more 
about the funds that were paid into Mr As account. I can understand too why it didnt 
consider Mr A had adequately explained his entitlement to the money. So, I cant say Santander has done anything wrong when it decided not to release the money remaining in 
Mr As account to him. 
I also note that Santander has spoken to Mr A on several occasions and asked him to 
provide more information about the credits into his account. Santander also wrote to Mr A to 
let him know what it was doing. So, I think Santanders kept Mr A informed about what its 
doing. And what information it needed from him. Overall, Im satisfied Santander have taken 
appropriate measures to find a way forward for him to be able to access the money 
remaining in his bank account. 
In summary, I appreciate that it was inconvenient for Mr A when Santander blocked and 
closed his account. And didnt release funds to him. So, I realise he will be disappointed by 
my decision. But dont believe Santander acted unreasonably or treated 
Mr A unfairly in taking the actions it did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman