DRN-3462814
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (trading as General Accident) unfairly declined 
his claim on his motor insurance policy. 
I refer to General Accident as GA and I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold
GA responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a luxury sports utility vehicle, first
registered in 2018.
Mr B acquired the vehicle in July 2020. For the year from July 2020, Mr B had the vehicle 
insured with GA. For the year from July 2021 he renewed the policy.
Unfortunately, on about 10 September 2021, Mr B reported that someone had stolen the 
vehicle.
By a letter dated 24 September 2021, GA declined to meet the claim, saying that the vehicle 
hadnt had an active tracker as required by the policy terms.
Mr B contacted us later in September 2021. Through us, he complained to GA that it hadnt
made that requirement clear when he took out the policy. By a final response dated 5 
November 2021, GA turned down the complaint. We investigated the complaint.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. The investigator
didnt think GA had acted unfairly or done anything wrong.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B  
and to GA on 31 March 2022. I summarise my findings:
After he bought the policy, Mr B had been back online on about 3 September 2020 
and again in June or July 2021. So I considered that the requirement for an 
operational tracking device was clear for him. So Mr B could make an informed 
decision whether to renew the policy. And he did renew the policy with the 
requirement for an operational tracking device.
Subject to any further information from Mr B or from GA, my provisional decision was that I 
didnt uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Aviva Insurance Limited (trading as 
General Accident) to do any more in response to this complaint.
Mr B disagreed with the provisional decision. He says, in summary, that:
The insurer had a duty of care to bring to his attention the need for an 
active/subscribed tracker.
The insurer took no additional steps to verify that the particular tracker was on 
their approved list before accepting him for cover and taking the premium. That 
wouldve made it clear to him that he had made a genuine mistake in believing that 
the tracker on the car was sufficient. The fact that he said 'other' during the 
application might've at least raised a question about whether the tracker was 
appropriate - especially as there was no reference to it needing to be in operation 
and any subscription to the system operator  maintained
At no time did the insurer request evidence that the tracker had a subscription. Surely 
they would have required this to satisfy the requirements of the policy. 
The insurer has yet to meet our request to provide screenshots of the 
application process.
Whilst undertaking the completion of the application, he responded by ticking other 
tracker.  He was not aware at this stage of any consequences or commitments in 
selecting this option. He believed that the vehicle had a factory fitted tracker that he 
was drawing to the insurers attention. He was not aware of any obligation to 
subscribe to this facility. The insurer had an obligation and duty of care to draw the 
need for subscription to his attention. 
The application process made no distinction between an active or functioning tracker.
The insurer is required to provide clear, fair and not misleading information to enable 
him to make a decision whether to take out the cover offered. The insurer should 
not be relying heavily on information provided after. 
When he renewed the policy in 2021, he didnt need to check the content of the 
policy again.
GA didnt respond to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what Mr B and GA have each said, he went online to buy the policy. He entered his
information and GA recorded it including the following:
Security: Manufacturer fitted
Tracking device: Other Tracker
Modifications: No modifications
Vehicle's overnight location: Drive
GA hasnt provided screenshots of Mr Bs journey online in July 2020. But I find it likely that
GA had asked him if the vehicle had a tracking device, and when he answered that it did, GA
gave him a list of types of device, from which Mr B selected other.
Whilst theres no evidence of what was in that list, I keep in mind that the purpose of any
tracking device is to transmit its location. So I dont find it likely that GAs list made adistinction between an active (or functioning) tracker and an other tracker.
The policy documents included the information Mr B had given, the policy schedule and the
policy terms booklet.
Section 1 of the policy terms related to loss of or damage to the vehicle, including by theft.
Ive seen a policy schedule for the year from 17 July 2020. It included the following:
We will not pay under Section I of the policy for loss of or damage to Vehicle
Registration No 18 by theft unless at the time of the theft a General Accident
approved tracking device is fitted and in operation and any subscription to the system
operator has been maintained
As the registration was an 18 plate, I find it likely that it was the original registration of the
vehicle.
From a later policy schedule, I find that Mr B had changed the registration of the car. That
later policy schedule was for the period from 3 September 2020 to 16 July 2021. It included
the following:
We will not pay under Section I of the policy for loss of or damage to Vehicle
Registration No Y by theft unless at the time of the theft a General Accident
approved tracking device is fitted and in operation and any subscription to the system
operator has been maintained.
So I find that - on about 3 September 2020  Mr B had gone back online to tell GA the new
registration number of the vehicle.
Ive seen a renewal email from GA to Mr B on 20 June 2021. It didnt say that the policy
would renew automatically. Rather it said that if Mr B wished to continue cover he should log
into his account and confirm renewal. As the policy was renewed, I find that Mr B had gone
back online in June or July 2021 and accepted the renewal.
Ive seen a policy schedule for the year from 17 July 2021. It included the following:
We will not pay under Section I of the policy for loss of or damage to Vehicle
Registration No Y by theft unless at the time of the theft a General Accident
approved tracking device is fitted and in operation and any subscription to the system
operator has been maintained.
I dont regard the policy schedules as small print. Rather I regard them as the documents a
policyholder would read first to check what cover he had bought.
After he bought the policy, Mr B had been back online on about 3 September 2020 and
again in June or July 2021. So I consider that the requirement for an operational tracking
device was clear for him. So Mr B could make an informed decision whether to renew the
policy. And he did renew the policy with the exclusion of cover for theft unless there was an 
operational tracking device.
So, whilst I understand the enormity of Mr Bs loss, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct 
GA to pay the claim or to do any more in response to this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited (trading as General Accident) to do any more in response to 
this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman