DRN-2217282
The complaint
Mr As complaint is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax failed to send him 
replacement credit cards and PIN reminders after his credit card stopped working.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Mr A has a credit card account with Halifax and his wife is an additional card holder. 
The cards stopped working and Mr A contacted Halifax about this in January 2020. It 
is not clear why the cards stopped working and while I appreciate the upset this 
caused Mr A as it appears to have been an issue that developed with the card and 
Halifax hadnt done anything to prevent the cards working, I do not find I can hold it 
responsible for this initial issue.
Mr A contacted Halifax about the issue with the cards in January 2020. I have 
listened to a call from 23 January 2020 when Mr A explained he has already raised 
the issue and was told a new PIN would be sent. However, the PIN he received was 
for his debit card not the credit card as asked. On this call it was agreed a new card 
and PIN would be sent for Mr A and his wife. This wasnt received so Mr A contacted 
Halifax again on 8 February to again request the cards and PIN. This was a long call 
and I can understand why Mr A found this frustrating. He explained that he needed 
his card urgently although he said he wasnt financial hardship and had access to 
funds. Mr A received the PIN but still didnt receive the credit cards and called Halifax 
again in March 2020 about this. This clearly isnt the service he should have 
received.
Mr A raised a complaint on the call in February and says that he wasnt contacted 
after raising this complaint and that when he called Halifax in March 2020 about the 
delay in receiving his card and to ask about his complaint he was told it had been 
closed. I can understand how frustration this must have been for Mr A as his issue 
hadnt been resolved. But I note that Halifax reopened his complaint at that time.
My role isnt to punish the business but where mistakes have been made to ensure 
the customer is put back in the position they would have been had the mistakes not 
happened and, where appropriate, award compensation. In this case, I do not have 
evidence to say that the initial problem with the credit cards was due to a mistake 
made by Halifax. But Halifax did make mistakes by not sending the replacement 
credit cards and PINs as requested.
Mr A received the PIN numbers before the March call and following this call the 
replacement cards were received. This put him back in the position he would have 
been had the issues not occurred. However, the process of resolving his issues took 
longer than it should have done, and I accept this caused Mr A distress and 
inconvenience. Because of this I find it fair that he is paid compensation. 
I understand that Mr A is upset about how much compensation was recommended 
by our investigator and that he wasnt consulted about the amount before this was 
put to Halifax. However, the investigator recommended an amount he felt reasonable 
given the circumstances of this case. He also informed Halifax of the amount Mr A 
thought should be paid after discussing this with him. I find this reasonable and have 
considered the circumstances of this complaint and what compensation I feel is 
reasonable.
As I have set out I do not find I can hold Halifax responsible for the initial issue with 
Mr As credit card. Therefore, I accept he would have needed to make the first call. 
This should have resolved the issue, but it didnt, and Mr A had to make three further 
calls before he received both the replacement cards and correct PINs. Mr A also had 
to wait several weeks to receive the cards and explained on one call that he needed 
the card urgently. I have nothing to suggest that Mr A was caused any financial loss 
due to the delay and on a call he doesnt raise any financial difficulties and refers to 
other cards he has. 
Overall, based on Mr A needing to make three additional calls and wait for around 
two months for his replacement cards and PINs I find the recommendation made by 
our investigator was reasonable. I understand that Mr A does agree with this and 
thinks a much higher amount should be paid but having considered the 
circumstances of this case I think £150 compensation is fair.
Putting things right
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should pay Mr A £150 compensation for the issues 
he experienced in getting a replacement credit card.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
should take the action set out above to compensate Mr A for the distress and inconvenience 
he was caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman