DRN-2743730
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) lent to him 
irresponsibly and didnt carry out sufficient checks when they agreed to lend to him. 
What happened
Mr M was accepted for a credit card by Halifax in July 2012 with a limit of £1,100. The 
following credit limit changes were then applied:
August 
2014August 
2016March 
2017October 
2017June 
2018January 
2019September 
2019October 
2019
£1,600 £2,100 £3,850 £4,850 £6,600 £7,100 £7,600 £7,350
 
Mr M also took out a loan for £10,000 in May 2016 from Halifax. Mr M says the debt became 
unmanageable and he contacted a debt charity for help. Mr M also complained to Halifax 
that they had lent to him irresponsibly. 
Halifax responded and said, in relation to Mr Ms loan, he told them he was in receipt of 
£2,610 per month and his monthly outgoings totalled £1,000. Halifax said they asked Mr M 
to confirm that the information he had provided to them about his income and expenditure 
was correct and then used a credit scoring process to confirm the borrowing was appropriate 
and affordable. Halifax said their credit check wouldve included details of any lending 
products Mr M held, both long and short term, inside and outside of Halifax. They said they 
used this information to predict how much of a risk they were taking by lending to Mr M and, 
as he scored enough points, they agreed to take his application to the next stage. They said, 
based on the information, the loan shouldve been affordable and Mr M maintained 
repayments until October 2019. 
In relation to the credit card, Halifax said, as the opening of the account was more than six 
years ago and more than three years after Mr M shouldve been aware of a cause to 
complain, the complaint about the opening of the account was out of time. Halifax only 
looked at the credit limit increases over the last six years. Halifax said, they state upon 
application of a credit card that they may change the credit limit at any time, based on the 
management of the account and giving customers notice before they do so. 
Halifax said, Mr M contacted them in October 2019 to tell them he was experiencing financial 
difficulties and had been dealing with a debt charity. They then received correspondence 
from the debt charity and Mr Ms credit card was closed to their Recoveries team in 
November and is being managed by another company.  And, his loan was closed to their 
Recoveries team in December and then sold to another company. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M. He thought Halifax had made a fair lending 
decision in relation to the loan and they hadnt acted unfairly in increasing the credit limits. 
Mr M disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr M will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
The loan 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Halifax needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that they didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that they shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr M could repay the credit in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
The first point Ive addressed is whether I think Halifax carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. Section 5 of the Consumer Credit (CONC) sourcebook, in place at the 
time, outline that the assessment that Halifax needed to complete shouldve been dependent 
on, and proportionate to, a number of factors  including the amount and cost of the credit 
and the consumers borrowing history. CONC also provides guidance on the sources of 
information Halifax may have wanted to consider as part of making a proportionate 
assessment. It then gives examples of factors a firm must consider and refers to whether the 
information the firm has is sufficient and whether to obtain additional information from the 
customer and any other sources of information to use.    
   
Halifax is free to decide how to set their lending criteria but they should complete 
proportionate checks to ensure borrowing is sustainable. In this case, I can see Mr M makes 
his application using Halifaxs internet banking service. This produces an application scoring 
data sheet which shows the information entered by Mr M. This shows Mr Ms application is 
for a loan of £10,000 with a loan term of 60 months with monthly repayments of £187.76. It 
shows Mr M records his salary after tax as £2,610 per month and his monthly expenditure as 
£1,000 which is made up of his mortgage/rent. Halifax have provided a reconstructed 
affordability assessment form and this does take into account credit cards and borrowing 
from other lenders. It appears the information in this is based on the details which have been 
provided by Mr M as part of his loan application as the only outgoings shown are the £1,000 
for the mortgage/rent and £188 for this loan. This shows Mr Ms monthly balance after 
deducting his outgoings  which includes this loan  to be £1,422.     
Halifax say they took into account the information provided by Mr M as well as information 
held on his credit file  which included details of any lending products he held with, and 
outside, Halifax. Generally, I think these checks would be reasonable and proportionate as 
they would take into account a number of factors. And, the checks carried out would be the 
type I would reasonably expect because they would help Halifax not only to build a picture of 
Mr Ms financial situation, but also to assist in determining whether he could repay the credit 
in a sustainable way. 
However, looking through the information provided by Halifax, I cant see where they have 
taken into account information from Mr Ms credit file and, in particular, other borrowing. 
While the affordability assessment form does make provision for this information to be 
included, I havent seen any evidence that it was as the relevant sections are blank. 
In addition to this, Mr M also had a credit card account with Halifax at the time he took out 
the loan so, again, I cant see this was included in the checks carried out by Halifax. So, I 
cant say the checks carried out by Halifax were reasonable and proportionate.  
Given that I dont think reasonable and proportionate checks were completed in this case, 
the next point Ive considered is, if reasonable and proportionate checks had been completed, would they more likely than not have shown that Mr M was more likely than not 
unable to sustainably repay what he was being lent. 
To help decide this, Ive looked at what Mr Ms credit file wouldve shown at the time. At the 
point Mr M took out the loan, his credit file shows he had a loan from another lender and 
credit card accounts with other lenders. This shows Mr M was paying £142 per month on a 
separate loan account at the time he took out the loan with Halifax. It also shows a credit 
card account where Mr M was paying £45 per month. The credit file also shows the monthly 
mortgage payments as being just under £500 rather than the £1,000 Mr M recorded on his 
application. Its not clear from the credit file what Mr M was paying on the remaining 
accounts, but Ive looked at other information to see how much the minimum payments 
were. Ive looked at Mr Ms average minimum payment due over three months (this being 
the three months prior to May 2016) on other credit card accounts he held. This shows a 
combined minimum payment of around £500. So, the £1,000 that Halifax took into account 
does appear to fairly represent Mr Ms outgoings. Ive also looked at Mr Ms bank statements 
leading up to the loan being provided and this doesnt suggest significant outgoings beyond 
the £1,000 that Halifax took into account. And therefore, based on the salary provided by   
Mr M to Halifax, I dont think it was unreasonable for them to take the view that his remaining 
disposable income each month would be sufficient for Mr M to manage any other financial 
commitments.  
I can see our investigator has also asked Halifax to do a calculation based on additional 
expenses  such as essential living costs. And, this still leaves a disposable income which 
Halifax have shown wouldve led to them lending to Mr M. 
   
Ive also looked at how Mr M was performing against his Halifax credit card account as this 
is information Halifax had to hand and something they say their checks took into account. 
Ive looked at the six months leading up to Mr M taking out the loan, from November 2015 to 
April 2016. In these six months Mr M doesnt miss any payments and is generally paying 
more than the minimum payments due, for example, in his December 2015 statement, his 
balance is £217.30 and his minimum payment due is £5.02. Mr M then makes a payment of 
£220. Then in March 2016, his balance is £1,236.47 and his minimum payment due is £40. 
Mr M makes a payment of £550. So, I think this information suggests Mr M was managing 
his credit card account well.  
So, taking this into account, I cant say Halifaxs decision to lend was unfair. I think the 
information they shouldve considered would reasonably have led them to make a decision 
that Mr M could make repayments without undue difficulty, while being able to meet other 
commitments and without having to borrow further. So, I dont uphold this part of the 
complaint. 
Credit limit increases
In relation to the credit card account, Halifax say the opening of the account and the first 
increase in August 2014 is out of time as the complaint was brought more than six years 
after the event - and more than three years after Mr M shouldve been aware of a cause to 
complain. I can see our investigator has also explained this to Mr M and I cant see he has 
challenged this. Our investigator says Mr M confirmed his main concern relates to the later 
credit limit increases  so thats what Ive looked into. 
Halifax say, before they offer a credit limit increase to a customer they assess their 
creditworthiness and affordability using a combination of external credit reference agency 
data and internal behavioural data. This includes behavioural scorecards based on the 
detailed credit card account conduct. They say, when they assessed Mr M for the increases, 
he was operating the account within the credit limit allocated, was paying well above his 
contractual repayments and there were no adverse entries on his credit reference agency data. Halifax say the increases offered were on the basis that Mr M could afford and would 
benefit from a more appropriate limit to better suit his needs and avoid unnecessary account 
fees from potentially going over limit. Halifax say, offering credit limit increases to customers 
who they think can afford it and who they think would benefit from it is industry standard 
practice. Halifax say, it is only an offer and customers are able to opt out as whenever they 
offer a credit limit increase to a customer, they send a letter informing them of the offer and 
the letter states they have 30 days to reject the offer if they do not want the increase. They 
say, Mr M didnt decline any of the increases so therefore the increases took place. 
Looking at the information considered by Halifax, I think the checks they carried out were 
reasonable and proportionate. The next point Ive considered is whether Halifax made a fair 
lending decision bearing in mind the information gathered and what they knew about Mr Ms 
circumstances. To help decide this, Ive looked at how Mr M was handling his credit card 
account. The credit limit changes were made between August 2016 to October 2019. I can 
see regular payments were made with no late fees being charged in this period. The monthly 
payments being made were also generally higher than the interest payment for that month. 
This shows that the payments were going towards the capital and not just the monthly 
interest which had accrued. And, on a number of occasions, the payments made were 
significantly higher than the minimum payment required.  
 
Ive looked further into each increase starting from August 2016 to see how Mr M was 
managing his account. While Mr Ms credit limit is £1,600, his statements show he was 
managing his account at around 45% of his credit limit. While Mr Ms credit limit was £2,100, 
his statements show he was managing his account at around 31% of his credit limit. While 
Mr Ms credit limit is £3,850, his statements show he was managing his account at around 
32% of his credit limit. While Mr Ms credit limit is £4,850, his statements show he was 
managing his account at around 51% of his credit limit. While Mr Ms credit limit is £6,600, 
his statements show he was managing his account at around 41% of his credit limit. And, 
while Mr Ms credit limit is £7,100, his statements show he was managing his account at 
around 64% of his credit limit. This shows Mr M was managing his account well below the 
credit limit in place.  
There are occasions where Mr M borrows close to his credit limit but he makes a significant 
payment to bring his balance down. For example, in December 2017 his balance is 
£4,562.28 against a credit limit of £4,850, but he makes a payment of £4,000. Then, in 
December 2018 his balance is £5,669.54 against a credit limit of £6,600 but he makes a 
payment of over £5,000. 
   
Mr Ms credit limit was increased to £7,600 in September 2019 but given that Mr M didnt 
make a minimum payment following the September statement Halifax reduced the credit 
available. And, the October 2019 statement says, as a responsible lender, Halifax need to 
ensure they are offering credit to each customer thats right for them and at a level of risk 
thats right for Halifax. They say, after reviewing Mr Ms account, theyve decided to reduce 
his credit limit to £7,350. I think Halifax took reasonable steps here given Mr M had missed a 
minimum payment.    
Ive also looked at other factors which Halifax took into account at the point the credit 
increases were applied. Halifax received information from credit reference agencies which 
showed Mr M was managing his other external accounts well. 
Evidence of numerous arrears can point towards financial difficulty. This might also 
demonstrate that a consumer wont be able to repay any further borrowing without undue 
difficulty, while being able to meet other commitments and without having to borrow further. 
So, its important to take these factors into account when deciding whether a consumer can 
sustainably repay any credit. But, I cant see any evidence of defaults or numerous arrears leading up to the credit limit increases. I think Halifax have acted reasonably in taking this 
information into consideration and have acted fairly in deciding to increase the credit limits.  
I note Mr M says he was overdrawn a number of times during 2017 to 2019 and Halifax 
shouldve taken this into account when applying the credit limit increases. Ive looked at his 
bank statements and it does show this. But nothing Ive seen suggests Halifax needed to 
make any checks beyond those they carried out. The checks carried out by a lender need to 
be reasonable and proportionate. And, what constitutes reasonable and proportionate in one 
case might not necessarily satisfy the test in another case. So, in some cases, if there is 
evidence to suggest a lender shouldve had wider concerns, then we might say they needed 
to carry out further checks and perhaps have looked at a customers bank statements. In this 
case, I havent seen any information which I think shouldve led Halifax to look at Mr Ms 
bank statements or even request any further information beyond that which they did.    
In summary, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint in this matter as I feel Halifax made a fair 
decision to lend in respect of the loan and credit limit increases. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman