DRN-3051994
The complaint
Mr T, Mr M, Mrs M and Mrs M complained that when they applied for a mortgage with Bank
of Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI) the bank opened a business current account for them, which they
paid a fee for. They say they didnt need that sort of account, and they want the fees back.
Mr T brings this complaint on behalf of the group.
What happened
Mr T said the group applied together for a mortgage, to buy a holiday home for all of them to
enjoy. He said it wasnt a business, it had never been rented out commercially.
Mr T said that at the same time, BoI also opened a current account for them, to pay the
mortgage from. Mr T said that BoI had opened a business current account, which they had
to pay a fee to hold. They didnt realise until recently that they could have had an ordinary
current account instead, and not paid a quarterly fee of £25.
Mr T said that BoI shouldve advised them of this at the time the account was opened. They
wanted BoI to pay back the money theyd paid to hold this account over almost twenty years.
BoI said that the group didnt have to open a current account with it at all. It showed us an
email where it had asked if the group wanted to open an account or to pay by standing order
from other accounts.
But if they did want an account, then BoI felt the account opened for the group back in 2003
was the most suitable account for them. They had borrowed using a commercial mortgage,
so BoI thought a business current account was the best fit with this.
BoI paid £100 in compensation for poor service received more recently, when Mr T was
trying to change the account type and make a complaint.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that because of the
time that has passed, BoI doesnt have full documentation for the requirements it had at he
time that the group opened their current account, and no documents to cover any advice it
might have given on this. Our investigator said that wasnt unreasonable given the time that
had passed. But there was some evidence from the time, and our investigator said that
considering this, he didnt think BoI had done anything wrong.
Our investigator said he had a copy of the mortgage offer, so he could see that opening a
current account with BoI wasnt a condition of that offer. He could also see an email where
BoI gave the group the option of either setting up standing orders so each person could pay
their part of the mortgage, or setting up a current account.
Having decided to open an account, our investigator said that the key was whether this
needed to be a business account or whether it couldve been a standard current account.
Our investigator said he couldnt see if BoI provided advice on this at the time. But the
mortgage was a commercial mortgage and provided by BoIs corporate and business
banking team. So he said that it seemed reasonable on balance, as this was a commercial
mortgage, that BoI required the group to open a business account. And the group agreed at
the time to open a business account and pay the associated quarterly fees.
Our investigator said he knew BoI was no longer insisting that the group held a business
current account, but he said its not uncommon for a business to change its requirements
over time. And ultimately, if BoI said it would need the group to open a business account at
the time, and they agreed to this, our investigator didnt think he could say it had done
anything wrong.
Mr T didnt agree. He said that if he wasnt required to open an account at all with BoI, then
we couldnt say that he was required to open a business account just because this was a
commercial loan. He said he thought that BoI officials shouldve known that the bank they
worked for also offered a retail, fee free account that would have done the same job, and he
shouldve been offered this. He said if BoI had recommended a fee-paying account when a
fee free account would also be suitable, then BoI should pay the fees back.
Mr T said that the group wanted an ombudsman to consider the complaint, so it was passed
to me for a final decision. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
I know our investigator thought that the key issue here was whether the group 
couldve had an ordinary current account instead. But I dont think thats the whole 
issue here.
It is part of the issue. For me to uphold this complaint, I would have to decide that the 
group could always have had an ordinary current account. And I dont think it follows, 
from what BoI has said more recently, that the group could always have had an 
ordinary current account with BoI. Unfortunately, we no longer have a record of BoIs 
policies at the time.
But there are other issues I think are also important. Such as  did BoI offer any 
advice at all on what account type the group should have? And if so, did it get that 
advice wrong?
For me to uphold this complaint, I would also have to be able to see that BoI had 
provided advice on the sort of account that the group should open, as well as that 
this advice was not appropriate. And I wouldnt automatically assume that BoI offered 
Mr T or other members of the group advice on the appropriate current account. 
Again, part of the difficulty with this complaint, is that any decisions which were made 
or policies which were in place at the time, are no longer kept by the bank, because 
this loan was made almost twenty years ago.
But as our investigator said, there are some documents which we still have. And, like 
him, those documents make me think that it isnt likely that BoI gave wrong advice 
about account opening in this case.
Firstly, it is clear from the documents that we have, that BoI didnt insist that the 
group opened an account with it. They were free to open an account elsewhere.I also note that BoIs internal documents show that it considered, when this loan was 
being agreed, that Mr T was making very informed financial decisions. It said this on 
the basis of what it understood his professional role to be at the time. The email 
conversations between Mr T and the bank do also seem to me to support this view.
So I think that makes it less likely that Mr T wouldve been given express advice on 
what sort of account to open. And if he was, then it does seem likely that he would 
have been well placed to consider and critically challenge that advice.
Finally, I should note that although Mr T has told us the property that was purchased 
with the loan has never been let commercially, and has always just been for family 
use, it doesnt seem from the documents Ive seen as if that was clearly the case 
from the outset. The documents BoI has shown us from the time when the loan 
application was made say that the property was mainly for family use, but it might be 
let out infrequently. If the property was potentially going to be used as a holiday let, 
then a business current account wasnt an inappropriate choice.
I know that there is now very little documentation available from the time. But Ive 
looked carefully at what is available, and I dont think I can say that its more likely 
than not that BoI gave inappropriate advice in this case, which led to the group 
opening a fee-paying account, when a fee-free account would have been more 
suitable. I know that Mr T, Mrs M, Mrs M and Mr M will be disappointed, but I dont 
think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr T, on behalf of the group, didnt reply. BoI replied to say it accepted my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M, Mrs M, Mrs 
M and Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman