DRN-3337368
The complaint
Mr F complains that Monzo Bank Ltd failed to block gambling transactions on his account.
What happened
Mr F says he had asked Monzo to block gambling transactions from his account but says he 
was able to make numerous gambling transactions in 2021. He says he spent about £16,000 
which has caused financial difficulties. Mr F accepts he must take some responsibility for the 
payments but says so should Monza. He says its systems are not fit for purpose and says he 
wasnt treated fairly by it. Mr F would like some of the payments refunded and says the 
merchants involved may be committing fraud.
Monza says it can only block gambling payments to merchants that use the correct Merchant 
Category Code (MCC) and says the payments Mr F made were to merchants that didnt use 
gambling codes. It says it makes clear when the gambling restriction is activated that it will 
try and block a payment, but a payment may go through which a customer is liable for. 
Monza says Mr F didnt report to it the merchants he made payments to which would have 
allowed it to block those payments. It accepts it took too long to respond to Mr F and has 
paid £80 compensation.
Mr F brought his complaint to us and questioned if a chargeback ought to have been raised. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The investigator thought the merchants Mr F 
made payments to didnt use gambling MCCs but codes for example a music shop. And 
thought Monzo made clear when the gambling restriction was applied that some payments 
may be authorised which a customer is responsible for. The investigator explained that we 
are not Monzos regulator and so not our role to order it to change its procedures or punish 
it. The investigator didnt think Monzo ought to have raised a chargeback as Mr F received 
the service he paid for.
Mr F doesnt accept that view and questions if Monzo did tell him about the possibility of 
some transactions not being blocked and questions why he was able to make so many 
transactions in these circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I also 
make clear to Mr F, as the investigator has done, that we are not Monzos regulator. So, I 
cant direct Monzo to change the way in which it operates about such matters or direct that it 
uses a different system of identifying a merchant as a gambling business. I am sure Mr F 
appreciates why a merchant may choose to identify itself as for example a music shop, and 
that is not something, I can fairly hold Monzo responsible for.
I have looked carefully at the information Monzo provides its customers when a gambling 
restriction facility is activated on an account. I have no reason to think that the message has 
changed or wasnt visible to Mr F when he activated that facility on his account. Im satisfied 
that Monza makes clear that not all transactions may be blocked and that a customer is 
liable for them. And I find that is what took place here that Mr F made payments to 
merchants that didnt use MCCs for gambling which meant the payments were not blocked. 
I cant fairly hold Monza responsible for that and am satisfied that it wouldnt have known the 
nature of the merchants activity unless told by its customers.
I appreciate that Mr F says a customer wouldnt know which MCC was used or if a merchant 
was using a non-gambling MCC. But Im satisfied that neither would Monza know that. I also 
think that Mr F could have told Monza to block the merchants he was making payments to or 
tell Monza that the merchants were actually gambling businesses.
I also appreciate Mr F says that a chargeback ought to have been made if the wrong codes 
are being used and that amounts to fraud. I make clear to Mr F that it would be for the police 
to investigate an allegation of fraud. And Im satisfied that a chargeback wouldnt have 
succeeded as Mr F paid for a product he received.
Overall, I appreciate Mr Fs frustration and appreciate that he added the block to prevent this 
sort of situation. But that doesnt mean I can fairly hold Monza responsible for what took 
place and am satisfied that it fairly explained, when the block was applied, that there were 
limitations to it. I hope Mr F appreciates that I cant fairly hold Monza responsible for the 
activities of merchants if they have deliberately used MCCs designed to thwart such account 
blocks.
I appreciate this complaint is mainly about the gambling block but make clear Im satisfied 
the compensation for the delay was fair and reasonable. And I cant see that Monza made a 
mistake by allowing numerous payments to the same merchants as Mr F made and 
authorised them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman