DRN-3792225
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Mercer Limited trading as Mercer March Benefits (Mercer) failed to 
honour the terms agreed in 2014 regarding his protected no claims bonus discount (PNCD).
What happened
In July 2014, Mr H transferred from an existing private medical insurance (PMI) policy to a 
new one with a different provider. He took the new policy through Mercer who acted as the 
broker. The transfer to the new policy was completed on a Continued Medical Exclusion 
basis, meaning Mr H didnt have to complete any new medical underwriting questions. The 
new policy also offered a 66% PNCD as a starter. 
During the policy year 2019-2020, Mr H made a claim on his policy and lost his no claims 
discount (NCD). Following a further 12 months of no claims made, Mr H contacted Mercer 
for this to be reinstated. Mr H had to complete eligibility questions and at first declined to do 
this. But Mercer confirmed that if he didnt complete the questions, his eligibility for the NCD 
couldnt be considered. So, Mr H completed the questions and the policy provider confirmed 
he wasnt eligible for the reinstatement of his PNCD based on the answers hed provided. 
Mr H says, on 2 July 2014, he spoke to Mercer and has a handwritten note in his file which 
says: [the consultant] advises that the restrictions on page 11 T & C re Protected NCD are 
not applicable to contract offered. Based on this conversation, Mr H says he made the 
decision to switch policy providers as he was provided with assurance and his decision was 
influenced by this. 
Mr H made a complaint to Mercer. He said he was given an assurance by one of its 
consultants that his NCD would be protected when he made the switch to the new provider.
Mercer responded and said it had an agreement with the policy provider, in 2014, that any 
new clients could switch policies on a continued medical underwriting basis. And under this 
same agreement, they would also be eligible for a 66% PNCD as a starter. Mercer said a 
recommendation letter was sent to Mr H with the policy documents, including the terms and 
conditions of the policy. With regards to the NCD, the terms and conditions state that if a 
members NCD is removed for any reason, it will be reinstated after a period of 12 months 
with no claims paid if the policyholder asks and they satisfy the protected NCD eligibility 
rules. Mercer said it didnt agree that from the outset the terms of the PNCD had changed or 
that there was any evidence to suggest the eligibility criteria would not need to be satisfied at 
a later date.
Mr H remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold it. She concluded that there wasnt sufficient evidence to indicate Mercer made a 
promise to provide a lifetime PNCD when the policy switch was made. 
Mr H disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that, in summary, the seller needs to make sure the policy is right for the 
consumer.  
The key issue in dispute, on this complaint, is that Mr H believes he was provided with an 
assurance by one of Mercers consultants that his NCD would be protected for the lifetime of 
the policy. So, I have to decide whether Mercer did provide this assurance and, if so, the 
impact this had on Mr H in making the decision to switch his private medical insurance 
policy. 
Point of sale documents and information
Ive started by looking at the documents and information from the time of the switch/sale in 
2014. 
I can see the consultant completed a fact find which confirms that the policy renewal date 
was 1 July 2014, and a number of policy benefits were noted such as £500 excess, full 
cover, hospital  good local choice, including PNCD, that were required by Mr H. The 
outcome of the review was noted as follows:
Client would like to accept the price beater offer which gives 7.5% discount on a 
policy with a comparable level of cover to their proposed renewal terms, but would 
like to make changes to cover as indicated above.Report and policy literature to be 
issued.
I can see a telephone note from 30 June 2014 which says the consultant went through the 
details of the switch with Mr H again, including the policy benefits, NCD and PNCD. Mr H 
asked whether cover for recuperative care was included which his existing policy had 
provided. The consultant referred to page 9 of the policy booklet and informed Mr H that it 
didnt look like the new policy did provide recuperative care. 
From the information provided, I note there were conversations between Mr H and Mercer 
on 3 June, 2 July, 11 July and 14 July 2014.
A recommendation letter was sent to Mr H by Mercer, and this included the benefits that 
Mr H had requested during the fact find. The premium with a £500 excess was noted as 
£144.53 which included a continuation on the medical underwriting and as a starter 66% 
PNCD. With the recommendation letter, full policy documents were enclosed which included 
the upcoming terms and conditions of Mr Hs new policy. The letter also confirmed Mr H had 
the right to cancel the policy. There was a section Important reading which referred Mr H to 
read the documentation in full and if he had any queries, to contact Mercer. 
The new policy provider sent Mr H, in August 2014, his new policy financial statement and 
his new policy schedule. These documents confirmed that his policy includes other treatment 
and therapies, key hospital list, £500 policy excess, PNCD and referred him to the terms and 
conditions for details. The financial statement states in the notes section:Each insured persons No Claim Discount (NCD) is affected when we pay the bill 
that arises from the claim, rather than the date that the claim is started or the date 
that treatment is started. Not all claims affect the NCD. We calculate your renewal 
premium 39 days in advance of your renewal date. When an insured person starts a 
new claim which affects their NCD, and we pay the bill for that claim after their 
renewal premium has been calculated, their NCD level will not reduce at that 
renewal, instead it will affect their NCD in the following year.
The policy terms and conditions
The NCD section of the policy states:
The NCD protection takes effect if a member makes any claims that would have 
caused the NCD to reduce by three levels on the scale (these are new claims or 
claims that havent yet caused the member to drop down the NCD scale which total 
more than £250).
Instead of the NCD reducing by three levels:
 that member will remain at their current NCD level,
 we will calculate their premium from the next renewal date based on their current 
NCD level, and
 we will remove that members NCD protection and the NCD rules will apply. 
For details of these see section 3 of the policy conditions.
We will remove the NCD protection if you ask us at any renewal date. If we remove a 
members NCD protection for any reason, we will reinstate it after a period of 12 
months with no claims paid if the policyholder asks us to and the member satisfies 
the protected NCD eligibility rules.
It then goes on to state:
3. No claim discount
Your policy includes a no claim discount (NCD) which is reviewed at each renewal 
date.
I can see the PNCD was offered as part of a starter incentive for taking out a new policy. 
And from the information provided, its clear that if a claim was to be made, the policy 
providers eligibility criteria had to be met for the NCD to be reinstated, after a 12 month 
period. Its also clear in the documents provided that the NCD would be reviewed at each 
renewal. 
Has Mercer failed to honour the terms Mr H says were agreed in 2014?
I have taken into account Mr Hs main complaint point. That is, that he made a 
contemporaneous note on 2 July 2014 which says [Consultant] advises that the restrictions 
on page 11 T & C re Protected NCD are not applicable to contract offered.
Mr H says this advice was material and influential to his eventual decision to switch his PMI 
policy. He also says the premium quoted was attractive, but it was only so to the extent the 
policy remained claim free or, if not, the entitlement to reinstate the PNCD was 
unconditional.
Ive carefully considered the handwritten note Mr H has provided both in its own right and in the context of all the other documentation and evidence provided. 
The note is dated 2 July 2014. It shows there were five points of specific discussion between 
Mr H and the consultant. The points discussed were, in summary, about nursing care, the 
premium (and the changes in premium depending on the excess applied), the NCD, the 
impact of a £500 excess on medical costs and the NCD, outpatient cover, the terms and 
conditions. 
Theres no doubt that NCD was discussed at the time Mr H was weighing up his decision on 
whether to switch policy providers. At the same time, there were also a number of other 
factors that were being considered by Mr H. And looking at the evidence, I dont think NCD 
was the sole focus of the conversations. It looks like there was a significant difference in the 
premium between his existing policy and the new proposed policy and the new premium was 
significantly less than his provider at the time. With regard to the other benefits that Mr H had 
requested within the new policy and were discussed, it looks like there was a similar offer on 
the new policy or an alternative option. 
Based on what Ive seen, I agree NCD was queried by Mr H and point 3 on the handwritten 
note refers to this as explained by Mr H. But I dont agree that there is anything in the notes 
or in any of the documentation provided by Mercer or the policy provider directly which 
states that NCD would be protected for the lifetime of the policy. There is clear information 
within the policy terms and conditions and other policy documents provided to Mr H which 
confirms that if a claim is made, following a period of 12 months, there would be a 
requirement for him to complete eligibility questions and depending on the answers to those, 
the PNCD may be reinstated. I cant see anywhere in the evidence that a guarantee was 
provided by Mercer when Mr H took the new policy that the NCD would be protected for the 
lifetime of the policy. 
I appreciate the note says, the Protected NCD is not applicable to contract offered, but on 
the same piece of paper there was a note regarding £500 excess and the premium being a 
lot less because of the incentive that was being offered. If Mr H only took the new policy 
because his only concern was to protect his NCD then I would have expected to see further 
queries on this aspect following the policy documentation he received and was asked to 
understand. I cant see from the information provided that there were any follow up 
conversations or further discussions about PNCD. 
I do understand that Mr H might not have thought he needed to query this point again but 
based on the policy documents and the paperwork he received following him agreeing to 
take the new policy, if he thought there was an assurance provided by the consultant on 
2 July 2014, I would have expected him to query whats actually stated in the policy 
documentation versus what he was told. I cant see that this happened. So, in the absence 
of this, on balance, I cant say that Mercer provided Mr H with an assurance that his NCD 
would be protected for the lifetime of the policy. It seems to me there were other factors 
which also influenced his decision to switch. 
The 66% PNCD was as a starter incentive for taking out a new policy and there was an offer 
to switch policies on a continued medical underwriting basis. When Mr H first joined into the 
PMI policy, there was no requirement for him to complete the answers to get the PNCD 
included, and this was added onto the policy on the initial switch as an incentive. As Mr H 
made a claim on the policy in the year 2019-2020, the protection was removed, and he had 
to fulfil the eligibility criteria by answering the questions regarding the PNCD. 
Mercer sent Mr H a letter in 2014 which states:
We have agreed with Aviva that theyll cover any claims. That means through us youll be able to start a new arrangement without talking about your medical history.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mercer provided a guarantee that Mr H would receive PNCD 
for the lifetime of the policy. While I understand Mr H has said he relied on the assurance he 
says Mercer gave, the conversations followed up with full policy documentation even after 
hed agreed to go ahead, and this included clear information about the PNCD and what 
would happen in the event he made a claim and the requirement to complete eligibility 
questions. If Mr H did change his mind even at this point, he had the right to cancel the 
policy. 
Taking account of all the available evidence, Im not persuaded Mercer provided a guarantee 
that Mr H would receive a lifetime of PNCD on his policy regardless of any claims made. On 
balance, theres insufficient evidence to suggest this was the case. It follows that I dont 
require Mercer to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against Mercer Limited trading 
as Mercer Marsh Benefits.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman