DRN-4184515
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) treated his payment as a 
cash transaction and applied fees and interest to his account.
What happened
In January 2023 Mr D used his credit card to make a payment in relation to a mortgage 
application fee.  Upon reviewing his statement, he noticed hed been charged a cash 
handling fee of £8.97 and interest of £5.41 in relation to the payment.
Mr D contacted Creation about this and they explained it had been treated as a cash 
transaction in line with the terms and conditions. But as a gesture of goodwill refunded the 
£14.38 fee and interest applied.
Mr D would like Creation to do more by reviewing their terms and conditions and make it 
clear that payments to financial institutions are classed as cash transactions. Hes also 
incurred a postage cost of £3.45 and would like compensation for the inconvenience caused, 
so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator felt the terms and conditions werent clear and as Creation had already 
refunded the fee and interest asked them to pay Mr Ds postage cost. She didnt feel 
compensation was due.
Creation accepted this but Mr D remained unhappy, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions for the account say:
cash advance means an advance of monies made to you or on your behalf, or to an 
Additional Cardholder or on the Additional Cardholders behalf, including but not limited 
to cash, foreign currency, travellers cheques or cash related transactions;
It doesnt provide specific examples of cash related transactions so isnt clear which types of 
payments would or wouldnt apply here.
In relation to standard purchases, the terms and conditions also say:
standard purchase means a purchase of goods and/or services (including any 
insurance) by you or an Additional Cardholder and in respect of which payment is made 
by use of the card, Card number or, where permitted by us, a PIN and which may be 
effected in any manner including, without limitation, by means of text messaging by 
mobile phone (SMS), ATM, e-mail and Internet
Given that this refers to goods and services and that there also isnt any specific exclusions 
detailed I can understand why Mr D may have felt his payment would be treated as standard 
and not open to fees and interest. So I dont think the terms were clear about which specific 
payments would be treated as cash transactions. 
Creation have already refunded the fee and interest it applied, and theyve also agreed to 
refund the £3.45 postage cost Mr D incurred. 
Im aware Mr D would like Creation to review its terms and conditions and make them 
clearer. Whilst this isnt something I can direct them to do, it may be something theyd like to 
consider to avoid any future customer confusion.
Making a complaint inevitably causes some inconvenience and I appreciate that it has taken 
some of Mr Ds time to get the issue rectified. However, compensation isnt awarded for the 
error itself, it isnt a means to punish a business but to take account of the impact the error 
has caused. Whilst Creation didnt feel theyd done anything wrong they refunded the fee 
and interest quickly putting Mr D back in the position he shouldve been in. Aside for the time 
taken to log his complaint, Im not aware of any additional impact Creations error has 
caused and so I dont feel compensation is warranted in this instance. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Creation Financial Services Limited should 
pay Mr D £3.45 to reimburse his postage costs if they havent already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman