DRN-2794004
The complaint
Mr B has complained about a windscreen repair carried out by an agent of his insurer, AA 
Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AAUICL) when he made a claim against his car 
insurance policy. 
What happened
In December 2018 Mr B contacted the broker of his policy to make a claim for a crack on his 
windscreen. The broker on behalf of AAUICL arranged for Mr Bs windscreen to be checked 
by a windscreen repairer which Ill refer to as W. 
W completed a repair to Mr Bs windscreen in January 2019. A few days later Mr B raised 
concerns with W as he said the crack was still visible. 
W said they told Mr B they could replace the windscreen  but Mr B would need to pay the 
costs of the excess and he would need to contact his insurer. 
In September 2019 Mr B contacted W to express his dissatisfaction about the repair. He was 
unhappy that he would need to pay an excess for the windscreen to be replaced. 
In October 2019 Mr B raised a complaint with the broker. They replied to Mr B on behalf of 
AAUICL to say theyd passed his complaint to W and they would contact Mr B directly as 
they carried out the repair. 
In November 2019 Mr B asked us to look at his complaint. He said he had been passed back 
and forth between the broker and W and his complaint still hadnt been resolved. Mr B said 
the crack had got bigger and changed in colour. 
We contacted the insurer of Mr Bs policy AAUICL. As the underwriter of the policy  and as 
W acted as their agent in carrying out repairs  we explained that Mr Bs complaint was one 
AAUICL would need to respond to. Although Mr B had contacted the broker, the broker 
acted on behalf of AAUICL.
AAUICL said it had limited information on file due to W dealing with the repair. 
In March 2021 our investigator issued the first of two views to both parties. She didnt think it 
was fair that  having raised concerns about the repairs  Mr Bs complaint hadnt been 
investigated by either AAUICL or W. So she recommended AAUICL consider Mr Bs claim 
again and replace the windscreen if necessary. She thought AAUICL should waive the 
excess payable in the event of a replacement windscreen. And she recommended AAUICL 
pay Mr B £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
In April 2021 AAUICL provided new information from W. W provided an explanation of the 
repairs process along with a timeline of their contact with Mr B. AAUICL provided us with a 
copy of Ws terms and conditions. 
AAUICL said it agreed with Ws position. In summary this was that there was no guarantee 
that a repair would be successful. The aim of repairing a chip is to extend the life of the glass 
and not for cosmetic reasons. Mr Bs car passed its MOT in 2019 and 2020 with no 
advisories about the windscreen. If Mr B was unhappy with the appearance of the chip, W 
could replace the windscreen but Mr B would need to pay for it minus any difference already 
paid. 
After considering the new information, our investigator issued a second view in April 2021. 
She explained that  as the policy says AAUICL will pay for either a repair or replacement of 
the windscreen in the event of damage, this is the term she would rely on  and not the 
terms and conditions of W. 
Having looked at photos of the cracked windscreen before repair and after, the investigator 
thought the repair hadnt been carried out satisfactorily as the crack could still be clearly 
seen. So she recommended AAUICL arrange for suitable repairs to be carried out at their 
own cost, but subject to the appropriate excess under the policy. 
The investigator pointed out that  despite assurance that Mr Bs complaint had been 
passed to W in October 2019 - he didnt receive a reply. So she recommended AAUICL 
compensate Mr B by paying him £100. She considered it was unreasonable for Mr B to have 
had to wait so long to have his concerns addressed and passed between AAUICLs agents 
while still having the repair to the windscreen unresolved. 
AAUICL didnt agree. It said the issue is that Mr B is dissatisfied with the appearance of the 
chip. His car has passed MOTs in 2019 and 2020. 
AAUICL says W gave Mr B the option to have the windscreen replaced  so he was offered 
a solution to his complaint. AAUICL says there is no excess payable for Mr B to have his 
windscreen repaired. An excess of £75 is payable if the windscreen is replaced. 
So AAUICL would like an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs policy with AAUICL says the following for windscreen repairs:
Glass damage
The Insurer will pay for the repair or replacement of glass in the windscreen, sunroof 
or window(s) of the Insured Car and the scratching of its bodywork caused solely by 
this damage.
The replacement glass may not be made by the vehicles manufacturer but will be of 
an equivalent standard.
If this is the only damage claimed for, Your No Claim Discount will not be affected 
and is subject to You having to pay the applicable windscreen Excess as shown on 
Your Statement of Insurance.Mr Bs contract was with AAUICL. While it can appoint an agent to carry out repairs, 
responsibility of those repairs lies with AAUICL. Mr Bs policy clearly says AAUICL as the 
insurer will pay for the repair or replacement of glass to the windscreen. 
Mr B raised concerns about the chip a few days after the repair in January 2019 with W. The 
resolution he was offered by W was a replacement - as the repair wasnt guaranteed.
I dont think its reasonable to expect Mr B to accept non-guaranteed repairs when making a 
claim under his policy. We expect an insurer to carry out effective and long lasting repairs 
when a claim is made and accepted. Its not for me to decide or comment about the MOTs to 
Mr Bs car since W carried out a repair. Mr B has provided photos of the chip before and 
after repair. I think the photo after repair shows the chip as prominent as before and with 
cracks that arent clearly visible in the photo before repair. So Im not persuaded that an 
effective and long lasting repair has been carried out here.
In September 2019 Mr B raised his concerns with the broker and explained that the cracks 
had grown and had discoloured. I can see that the broker on behalf of AAUICL said it 
passed Mr Bs complaint to W in October 2019. 
Ws timeline doesnt show that it replied to Mr Bs complaint from October 2019. As this was 
a complaint about a claim, it was the responsibility of the insurer AAUICL to ensure Mr Bs 
complaint was dealt with and so its agent  the broker - should have followed up with W. But 
there isnt any evidence of this. 
This means that Mr Bs concerns were not addressed. AAUICL says W provided a resolution 
 this being that Mr B could have the windscreen replaced, but he would need to pay the 
excess. 
Ive carefully considered this point and Ive looked at the Statement of Insurance which was 
sent to Mr B when he renewed his policy. AAUICL highlights the following:
Windscreen cover included?  Unlimited subject to £75 excess.
AAUICL has told us Mr B hasnt paid an excess as it is only payable if the windscreen 
requires replacement. As the policy explains that a claim for damage to a windscreen is 
subject to an excess of £75, I think AAUICL is reasonably entitled to charge this in the event 
of Mr Bs windscreen requiring replacement if a further attempt to repair the chip isnt 
appropriate. If however Mr B has already paid an excess, I dont think he should have to pay 
it again. 
I think AAUICL should compensate Mr B for the distress and inconvenience caused. I think 
he raised his concerns with agents of AAUICL but was passed back and forth between them 
for some time which led him to contact us for help. And he will have the further 
inconvenience of arranging for his car to be assessed for repair to the windscreen in future. 
So I agree with the investigators recommendation which Ive set out below. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited to arrange for effective and long lasting repairs to be done to Mr Bs 
windscreen. If this isnt possible and the windscreen should be replaced, AAUICL is entitled 
to charge the excess if Mr B hasnt already paid. 
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited should pay Mr B £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman