DRN-3189306
The complaint
Mr R has complained, as director of a company, which Ill refer to as H, about Great Lakes 
Insurance SEs handling of Hs fleet motor insurance policy.
Hs policy is administered by another company on its behalf. The administration 
company would also often communicate via another insurance intermediary. But, as 
those two companies, admin company and intermediary, were acting as agents of 
Great Lakes when taking those actions, in this decision I will only refer to Great Lakes. 
What happened
H is a courier company which operates a fleet of vans. In 2019 it took out a three year policy 
underwritten by Great Lakes. The policy required that all vehicles covered by it had to be 
registered with the Motor Insurance Database (MID), which is the central record of all 
vehicles insured in the UK, in line with the relevant legal requirements. I understand that the 
relevant law requires all temporary vehicles held for more than 14 days to be registered on 
the MID. So, to comply with the law, vehicles held for less than 14 days didnt need to be 
registered on the MID. However, Great Lakes later asked that all vehicles be added to MID 
regardless of how long they were in Hs possession for.
The policy also had an endorsement which said:
The premium for this insurance having been calculated upon information supplied by the 
"Insured" regarding the vehicles described in the "Schedule" it is a condition precedent to 
liability that the "Insured" shall on the expiry of 3 Months from the commencement of this 
Insurance and of every 3 Months thereafter supply to "us" a statement showing details of the 
additional vehicles Insured or those deleted during the preceding 3 months.
In practice that meant that at the end of each quarter, H  via its agent  had to submit a list 
of vehicles which required cover for the previous three months. The list was generally 
referred to as the quarterly declaration although it was occasionally referred to as the 
spreadsheet or schedule. On receipt of that declaration Great Lakes would calculate 
whether or not it needed to adjust the premium based on the number of vans covered in the 
previous three months as set out in the quarterly declaration. 
In 2020 Great Lakes refused to pay two claims for Hs vans for accidents which happened in 
January and April 2020 because the vans hadnt been added to the appropriate quarterly 
declaration. Mr R settled the third party claims arising from those accidents himself on Hs 
behalf.
In November 2020 Great Lakes settled another claim against Hs policy. Great Lakes paid H 
for the vans total loss and dealt with a claim from the third party. But, after receiving the 
relevant quarterly declaration it told Mr R that, as the van hadnt been added to the quarterly 
declaration the policy didnt cover it and H would need to repay it what it had paid out to 
settle the claim. It later told Mr R that another claim, from an incident in November 2020 also 
wasnt covered for the same reason. 
Mr R didnt think that was fair and brought Hs complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it. He didnt think Great Lakes had done anything wrong. Mr R didnt agree so the 
complaint's been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has also complained on Hs behalf about the actions of another company which acted 
as agent for H in connection with the policy. I am dealing with that complaint under a 
separate reference number. So I dont intend to comment on that matter in this decision. 
As I've said above Hs policy stipulated that all vans requiring cover on it had to be both 
added to the MID  as legally required  and also to be declared on the quarterly 
declaration. But there were problems with the quarterly declaration from the outset. After H 
had sent in the first declaration Great Lakes identified that two vans on the declaration didnt 
appear on the MID. And two vans which did appear on the MID werent included on the 
declaration. Great Lakes said that the MID is not proof of insurance and that notification of a 
vehicle change on the MID does not constitute notification to it of a van requiring cover as 
set out in the policy. But on each occasion after that when Great Lakes received a quarterly 
declaration it raised discrepancies with those, noting that vehicles were either on the MID 
and not on the quarterly declaration or vice versa.
After Mr R had submitted the second quarterly declaration Great Lakes received two claims 
relating to vans that hadnt been added to the appropriate declarations. It told Mr R that as 
those vehicles werent on the quarterly declarations it wouldnt cover the claims and H had to 
deal with the third partys claims itself. Mr R didnt complain at that time about that. But, later 
 after Great Lakes asked H to repay what it had settled to pay out for a claim in 
November 2020 and again refused to deal with a claim for an accident in November 2020  
he complained.
The endorsement to Hs policy says that it is a condition precedent to liability that H had to 
submit a three monthly statement of the vehicles added or deleted in the previous three 
months. In other words, cover was dependent on Great Lakes knowing which vehicles H 
required cover for on a retrospective basis. Great Lakes could then see whether any 
adjustment to the premium was due. It also meant that any vehicle that hadn't been added to 
the relevant quarterly declaration wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr R thinks this is unfair as, via Hs agent, he was adding vehicles to the MID and says he 
didnt deliberately omit any vans from the quarterly declaration. But that doesn't mean that 
Great Lakes acted unfairly in refusing cover when vans werent added to the relevant 
declarations. 
As I've said above, in order for a van to be covered it needed to be added to the quarterly 
declaration. So, just adding a van to the MID didnt mean it was covered. And I dont think 
Great Lakes ever gave the impression that it would be. That meant, it was only by notifying 
Great Lakes, via the quarterly declaration, that a van was added to cover. And Great Lakes 
explained that the only forum to do that was by the appropriate quarterly declaration. It would 
then amend the cover and premium as necessary. So as the premium was dependent on the 
quarterly declaration, if a van wasnt on it, and no premium was paid for it, it simply wasnt 
covered. I think thats fair.I'm aware that Mr R offered to pay any additional premium that fell due after a claim had 
been made. But, thats not how the policy works. Its not the case that H could have its vans 
covered by making mistakes omitting them from the quarterly declaration, then paying an 
additional premium once a claim came in. That would allow H to continually make errors and 
omissions from its quarterly declarations  and to not pay premiums for vans as a result  
but to then have cover for them only if a claim came in. I dont think it would be fair to 
Great Lakes as it wouldn't know the extent of the risk it was offering  in terms of the number 
of vans covered and for which a premium had been paid, until it received claims. It follows 
that I don't think Great Lakes was under an obligation to pay claims for Hs vans not added 
to the appropriate declaration simply because Mr R offered to pay the premium at a later 
date.
Mr R also said that the policy certificate says it covers:
any motor vehicle the property of the policyholder or for which he is legally responsible
So Mr R believes that, as H was responsible for the vans and had an insurable interest in 
them (meaning it would suffer a loss if not covered by the policy), then all of Hs vans should 
be automatically covered. But an insurance certificate alone doesnt provide the contract of 
insurance and doesnt set out the terms and conditions under which such cover will apply. 
Indeed, the policy explicitly says:
This policy document, your certificate of motor insurance, your schedule and any 
endorsements must be read together as one contract of Insurance.
So its only after considering all of those documents together that cover can be confirmed. 
Turning to the matter of the claim which Great Lakes settled in November 2020 but then 
asked H to reimburse it for. I can understand why Mr R does not agree thats fair but I think 
Great Lakes approach is reasonable. Thats because, apart from occasions where certain 
laws make an insurer liable for claims, an insurer will only generally be liable where its 
policyholder is covered by the terms of the policy. So, if an insurers paid out on a claim 
where that cover doesnt apply, I dont think its unfair that it would wish to recover its outlay.
In this case Great Lakes explained that it received the claim which it settled in 
November 2020 before the quarterly declaration for the period had fallen due. So it paid the 
claim in good faith, in the expectation that the van concerned would be included on the 
appropriate quarterly declaration and a premium paid for it at that point. But the van wasnt 
included on the quarterly declaration and so it wasnt covered. The fact that Great Lakes had 
already settled the claim didn't mean the van was covered. 
Mr R might think that it was a mere administrative oversight that the van wasnt added to the 
quarterly declaration. But, accepting that was the case, it was a significant and extremely 
important oversight, as Great Lakes had already made clear on a number of occasions it 
was only vans which were added to the quarterly declaration that actually receive cover. So, 
as H hadn't added the van to the appropriate schedule it wasnt covered. And Great Lakes 
said that in those circumstances, it fell to H to cover the claim itself. And as Great Lakes had 
already paid out for that claim, but the policy didnt provide cover, it asked H to reimburse its 
outlay; I think that was fair.
For completeness, Ill add that Mr R has told us that Great Lakes has now cancelled Hs 
policy without giving any refund of premium. But at the time H complained the policy was still 
in place. So, as the policy cancellation wasnt a matter Great Lakes replied to prior to Mr R 
putting Hs complaint to us, it's not something I've considered as part of this decision. My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman