DRN-1826352
The complaint
Mr J has complained about the decision of Legal and General Assurance Society Limited 
(L&G) to terminate his claim under his employers group income protection insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr J was a member of his employers group income protection insurance policy, held with 
L&G. The policy would pay benefit if, after a 28 week deferred period, Mr J was unable to 
perform his occupation due to illness or injury.
In August 2015, Mr J stopped working for medical reasons. In March 2016, after the policys 
deferred period had been served, L&G accepted the claim and began paying benefit. 
In September 2018, with the claim still in payment, L&G began a review of the claim. It 
asked Mr J to complete a continuation statement outlining his current state of health. Mr J 
returned this in December 2018.
L&G arranged for its rehabilitation specialist, in January 2019, to carry out a telephone 
interview with Mr J. After doing so, the rehabilitation specialist considered that Mr J would 
benefit from cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT).
L&G arranged for Mr J to undergo eight sessions of CBT which took place between January 
and March 2019. The rehabilitation specialist noted that this had produced a marked 
improvement in Mr Js measured mental health. She recommended that Mr J undergo a 
functional capacity assessment (FCA) to measure his physical capabilities.
L&G arranged for Mr J to undergo the FCA later in March 2019.
After receiving the FCA report, L&G concluded that Mr J was no longer medically prevented 
from returning to work. It advised him in April 2019 that it was therefore terminating his claim. 
It noted he had been in receipt of benefit for some years and acknowledged that if he 
returned to work in his former role, or an alternative role, it would have supported a twelve 
week phased return to work period. It therefore said it would pay twelve further weeks of full 
benefit but that benefit payments would end at the end of this period, in July 2019.
Mr J appealed against L&Gs decision. He provided a letter of support from his GP and from 
a counselling service which he had been using over the past nine months.
L&G wasnt persuaded to change its decision so Mr J referred his complaint to us. He felt 
that he was not well enough to return to work and that L&G had therefore acted unfairly in 
terminating his claim.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He considered that 
the medical evidence supported L&Gs decision that Mr J was no longer incapacitated.
Mr J didnt accept the investigators findings. He disputed the conclusions of the CBT 
therapist and FCA assessor. He said that L&G had based its decision on wrong assumptions 
about his levels of activity and abilities. He said he was unable to concentrate on something 
for more than an hour without becoming very tired. He maintained that his mental and 
physical problems meant he could not return to full-time work.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy states that benefit will be paid if Mr J is prevented by illness or injury from 
performing his occupation. Mr J was employed in a sedentary role.
When Mr J stopped working in 2015, he reported a combination of physical and 
psychological symptoms.
Mr J continued to report symptoms of pain, low mood, poor concentration and also tiredness 
up to and including December 2018 when he returned L&Gs continuation statement.
In the interview with the rehabilitation specialist in January 2019, Mr J continued to report 
these symptoms. A psychological assessment indicated he was suffering from moderate 
depression and mild anxiety. He described difficulties with his mobility but said he could 
drive for up to two hours before needing to stop for a rest. The rehabilitation specialist 
concluded that Mr J was still currently unfit to work. She nonetheless thought he might 
benefit from CBT and that his case should be reviewed following this.
In February 2019, after Mr J had undergone five of his scheduled eight sessions, the 
therapist provided a progress report. She said that Mr Js anxiety had reduced and he had 
started doing voluntary work for a couple of hours a week at a local church. However, he 
was still struggling to improve his concentration levels and she therefore did not foresee Mr J 
returning to his former role. She recommended that the scheduled course of treatment be 
extended by a further four sessions to work on improving his concentration and lifting his 
depression.
The rehabilitation consultant considered there were inconsistencies between Mr Js reported 
symptoms and his activities of daily living as reported to the therapist. She didnt authorise 
the additional four CBT sessions but instead referred Mr J to undergo the FCA.
In the meantime, Mr J underwent the remaining scheduled CBT sessions. His therapist 
issued a discharge report in March 2019 which concluded that his levels of depression and 
anxiety had been somewhat reduced and there had been significant progress towards 
attainment of the goals which had been set, for example to understand anxiety and to reduce 
ruminating. However, she noted he was still struggling with pain and the limitations this 
imposed, including on his concentration. She considered it was unlikely he would ever return 
to full-time work.
The FCA in March 2019 was carried out by a physiotherapist. After conducting tests to 
measure Mr Js physical capabilities, she concluded that although he had self-limited in 
many of the tests, and despite the understandable restrictions imposed by his physical 
conditions, he was still able to demonstrate adequate functional capabilities to return to his 
sedentary role. She noted he was able to drive on a regular basis and was able to assist in 
setting up audio-visual equipment as part of his voluntary work at the church. She said that although he reported an inability to concentrate, he didnt appear to have any difficulty in 
following her instructions on the tests. She noted that Mr J reported concern about his 
mental state if he were forced to return to the work place but she said this was outside her 
area of expertise.
It was following the FCA report that L&G made the decision to terminate the claim. After 
taking everything into account, I consider this was a reasonable decision for it to make.
I recognise that Mr J considered himself unable to return to work but I have to ask what 
illness or injury was preventing this. Although, even after undergoing the CBT, Mr J had 
problems of low mood he was not apparently suffering from a mental illness which would 
stop him from working. The therapist doubted his ability to return to work but this wasnt 
because of his anxiety or depression. Mr J had concerns that returning to work might cause 
his mental state to deteriorate but I dont consider that his anxiety about the potential 
consequences was a valid reason to say that he was therefore unable to attempt a return to 
work.
And while he undoubtedly had chronic physical conditions which affected his mobility and 
caused him pain, the FCA assessor found he was found capable of sitting in a chair for up to 
an hour at a time without signs of any significant discomfort. He also told the assessor he 
could drive for up to an hour before he needed to take a break. Given that his job was 
sedentary and he would be able to take breaks, I dont consider that there was necessarily 
an obstacle to Mr J being able to meet the physical demands of his occupation, at least 
initially on a part-time basis.
Mr J said that, because of the pain from his physical conditions, he did not have the mental 
ability to concentrate as necessary to perform his job. However, the FCA assessor noted he 
was able to follow all the instructions for the various tests.
Mr J disputes the conclusions of the CBT therapist and FCA assessor. He says he was 
exhausted following the FCA and had to sleep in his car for a couple of hours. However, the 
therapist and assessor are trained professionals and I have no reasonable grounds for 
doubting their findings. Ive seen no evidence to show their conclusions, or those of L&G, 
were based on wrong assumptions about Mr Js levels of activity and abilities.
Mr J has provided a letter from a counselling service which he had been using. However, 
while the counsellor notes Mr Js concerns about returning to work, I dont consider that the 
letter adds much in the way of evidence to explain why such a return was medically 
prevented.
Mr J has also provided a letter from the GP surgery at which he has been registered since 
February 2019. The GP described Mr Js various health difficulties and thought he wasnt yet 
ready to return to his former role. However, some of the comments by the GP are 
inconsistent with the improvement in Mr Js mental state noted by the CBT therapist and his 
capabilities as measured in the FCA. Overall, Im not persuaded that the GPs letter shows 
that Mr J was unable to attempt a return to work.
I acknowledge that Mr J doesnt believe he is mentally or physically capable of returning to 
his job. However, I consider that the evidence didnt support that he was totally incapacitated 
under the terms of the policy at the time L&G terminated the claim. I therefore consider it 
was reasonable for L&G to expect Mr J to at least attempt a gradual return to work at that 
time. It paid him twelve weeks benefit to allow him time to do this and I think this was 
reasonable.In the end, Mr J didnt attempt to return to his role and his employer ended his employment. 
However, while I sympathise with Mr J who undoubtedly has chronic health issues which 
affect him, I consider that L&G acted fairly in this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman