DRN-3043502
The complaint
Mr B complains that MetLife Europe Services Limited unfairly assessed his claim.
What happened
 Mr B had an employers group income protection policy with MetLife.  On 5 March 2018 he 
became absent from work due to anxiety, depression and sciatic pain. The deferred period 
was 26 weeks, so was due to end on 3 September 2018.
Mr B submitted a claim on 8 August 2018. MetLife assessed the claim and said there was 
clear work-related issues which were impacting Mr Bs health and ability to return to work so 
they asked Mr B to undertake further independent assessments. One was to establish the 
functional impact of his mental health symptoms and the other was to discuss the issues 
with his employer with their mediator. 
Mr B attended the psychological review but initially felt too unwell to attend the mediation 
appointment. He then had reservations about the relevance of mediation on his medical 
claim, so he decided to decline mediation until he had received a decision on his claim.
MetLife declined Mr Bs claim due to his failure to attend mediation because they said it 
amounted to non-cooperation under the terms of the policy. Unhappy with this Mr B said he 
felt he had no choice but to meet with the mediator. So, in March 2019 he attended 
mediation and discussed the issues surrounding the relationship with his employer. 
MetLife went on to accept his claim on 10 April 2019 and backdated the payments. But Mr B 
remained unhappy because he felt like he had to jump through hoops to get the claim 
approved and feels he provided enough information from the start to show he was 
incapacitated in line with the policy terms.  Mr B said the delay and additional tests caused 
him further distress and financial concerns.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. She thought MetLife had 
enough medical evidence to support Mr Bs claim sooner than they did. She said it was 
unnecessary to make Mr B go through additional tests and mediation to approve the claim 
and this had clearly caused him a lot of distress and not helped the stress and anxiety he 
was already suffering. Based on the available medical evidence, she felt the claim ought to 
have been accepted by 12 October 2018 so she recommended MetLife paid 8% on the 
settlement figure they had backdated  to run from 12 October 2018 until the date theyd 
paid him settlement. 
Our investigator also thought MetLife should pay Mr B £500 compensation for the impact 
caused by their insistence on mediation and the delay this caused to the claims decision. 
MetLife agreed but Mr B didnt think he compensation was enough. 
In summary he said: 
MetLife's procrastination and the unnecessary hurdles put in his way prior to 
approving the claim had an extremely detrimental effect on him because he already 
suffered from depression and anxiety. He provided additional evidence to show the 
impact caused by MetLifes actions were extreme enough to warrant his 
compensation falling into a higher range.  
He made it clear to MetLife on several occasions that his health was being impacted 
by the delays and he was worried about his financial affairs, but they did not once 
deviate or consider the effect their approach was having on him
So the case has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The relevant rules and industry guidelines say MetLife has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Having looked through all the available evidence, I can understand MetLifes initial concerns 
around Mr Bs anxiety being closely connected to work related stress. MetLife referred his 
claim to their specialist medical team for further advice on whether this was more than work 
related stress. Given the circumstances, I think this was reasonable. 
However, by 12 October 2018 MetLifes own medical team had confirmed there was 
sufficient evidence to show Mr B was suffering from more than just work place stress. In 
addition to the medical evidence MetLife already held in relation to Mr Bs ongoing therapy, 
treatments an increase in medications, I think at this point MetLife had enough information to 
accept Mr Bs claim. 
But it wasnt for a further six months due to the issue of mediation. So, Ive thought about the 
impact this delay had on Mr B. 
Ive taken into account everything Mr B has told us about how MetLifes delay and the 
additional assessments made him feel.  Mr B was already unwell, so I can understand why 
the delay added further stress and worry at an already difficult time.  But I dont think it would 
be reasonable to direct MetLife to increase the level of compensation from the £500 already 
recommended for the reasons set out below: 
Although I dont think it was fair for MetLife to send Mr B for further testing, I am also 
mindful that his own actions contributed to part of the delay because he didnt attend 
mediation. Initially this was because Mr B was unwell, so I cant hold MetLife 
responsible for that. And then Mr B had reservations about attending mediation and 
questioned the relevance of it. 
Whilst I understand Mr Bs reluctance, its nevertheless the case that if he had 
attended mediation its most likely the claim would have been paid earlier. I can see 
once the mediation had occurred MetLife accepted and paid the claim in a fairly 
timely manner
Ive also considered Mr Bs psychiatrists report from November 2018 and can see it 
says Mr B was more anxious and stressed due to being asked to go for further 
assessments. Mr B says this shows his health had deteriorated so we should award 
more compensation. 
However, Ive also taken into account the fact Mr B was already suffering from 
anxiety and stress before the issues with his claim. So, whilst I accept his condition 
was exacerbated by MetLifes request for further testing and the delays that followed, Im satisfied £500 is enough to recognise the additional stress Mr B was caused by 
that. 
Ive considered Mr Bs point about being in financial difficulty during this time. I can 
see he refers to being worried about his financial situation to his medical 
practitioners. And I can understand why having no income wouldve been incredibly 
difficult to manage. But when Mr B brought the complaint to us he said fortunately, 
as a man at the end of his career, I had savings to fall back on. For a younger man 
with children to feed and bills to pay this type of delay could be devastating! So, Im 
persuaded that although MetLife shouldve accepted the claim sooner, the evidence 
suggests Mr B was able to manage during this time. 
The business has agreed to add 8% simple interest on the benefit payment which I 
think is a fair remedy to compensate the time Mr B was out of pocket of his funds. So 
I dont think there is any further financial impact that I need to consider. 
Mr B also raised concerns about MetLifes communications with his employer during 
the claim, so he issued both parties with a subject access request (SAR). He asked 
us to postpone this decision until he had received a replied.  
MetLife responded to the SAR in March 2021. I havent had sight of what was 
disclosed, and Mr B said he didnt have anything further to add following the 
response to his SAR. So, Ive reached my decision based on the evidence available 
to me.    
Ive taken into account Mr Bs further arguments and I appreciate MetLifes actions caused 
further stress at an already difficult time. However, taking everything into account, Im 
satisfied the award of £500 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience he has suffered so 
Im not asking MetLife to do anything more.
 
Putting things right
MetLife needs to put things right by paying:
8% simple interest to the settlement figure already paid to Mr B from 12 October 
2018 until the date the benefit payment was made. 
£500 compensation for the distress and upset caused to Mr B at an already difficult 
time. 
My final decision
 Im upholding this complaint against MetLife Europe Services Limited and direct them to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman