The complaint
A director of H complains that Ageas Insurance Limited didnt pay enough to settle Hs claim 
under its fleet insurance policy following the theft of a van. 
H is represented in this complaint by its insurance broker. 
What happened
H has a fleet insurance policy with Ageas. In November 2019, one of its vans was stolen and 
it made a claim under the policy. 
Ageas agreed to settle the claim, but there was a disagreement about the valuation of the 
van. Ageas initially offered £8,100, later increasing this to £9,187 (less policy excess and 
VAT). Ageas have paid the latter amount to H, although H says the van was worth at least 
£9,750.
H complained to Ageas, but Ageas didnt uphold its complaint. The insurer said the valuation 
used reflected the price from the Glasss guide so it was fair. 
Still dissatisfied, H referred its complaint to this service, providing copies of advertisements 
showing what it considered to be a comparable van offered for a higher price. H also said 
that the mileage Ageas had used was too high at 73,000 and that they hadnt taken into 
consideration sign writing, racking and the tracker which was installed in the van. 
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt recommend upholding the complaint. 
He checked with both CAP and Glasss guides that the valuations were correct. He thought it 
was fair to use these, with mileage of 45,000. 
Hs representative disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I asked H's representative if there was any evidence of the sign writing, racking and the 
tracker he had mentioned. He confirmed that there was no evidence of these items. He 
asked me to proceed with the decision based on the original claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my conclusion is the same as our investigators, and for essentially the 
same reasons. So Im not going to uphold the complaint. 
In reaching this decision, Ive taken into account ICOBS 8.1, which says that an insurer must 
handle a claim promptly and fairly. Hs representative doesn't think that Ageas have handled 
DRN-1616434this claim fairly, because the value they've offered is too low. So that's what I need to decide 
on.
Hs insurance policy defined replacement cost as the cost of replacing the vehicle with one 
of a similar age, type, mileage and condition immediately before the loss or damage 
happened. 
Hs representative says that H wont be able to buy an equivalent replacement van for the 
settlement amount that Ageas have paid. He has provided some screenshots from online 
sales websites, advertising this make and model of van at higher prices. He says that these 
prove that Ageas offer is too low.
We don't generally consider individual advertised prices to be a reliable way to assess the 
market value of a vehicle. These prices often leave room for negotiation, so they tend to be 
higher than the final selling price. And even if there are several examples, its still a small 
sample compared with the data used by the valuation guides. This is because the guides 
base their figures on extensive nationwide research of likely selling prices. 
I realise Hs representative thinks Glasss and CAP are wrong about the value of this 
particular van. He thinks Ageas should have to prove their settlement is fair by providing 
evidence that a replacement van could actually be bought for that price. And he thinks we 
should do our own market research. But Im not persuaded this would give us more valid 
data than the wide samples the guides draw upon. I dont think its unfair for Ageas to have 
used the guides to arrive at the settlement figure.
In this case, Ageas looked at two valuation guides when reaching their revised settlement 
figure, Glass's and CAP. The valuations were calculated based on the model, age and 
approximate mileage of Hs van. Ageas then paid H the amount shown in the Glasss guide, 
which was £9,187 (less excess and VAT). The CAP guide showed a slightly lower figure. We 
have checked these valuations and found them to be accurate.  
I know Hs representative thought that Ageas hadnt used the fair mileage figure for the van. 
But I can see that the £9,187 figure was based on mileage of 45,000, which seems fair given 
that, at the MOT in May 2019, the mileage was recorded as 40,496. 
Ageas have told us that H hadn't mentioned the tracker, signage and racking before the 
complaint came to us. Ive asked Hs representative for any evidence of them, and allowed 
some time to provide this, but he has said there isn't any evidence. 
In the absence of any evidence of the tracker, signage and racking, my conclusion is that I 
dont think it would be fair to require the insurer to pay anything for these items. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman