DRN-3862832
The complaint
Mr A complained that repairs under his claim took too long and poor workmanship led to 
other issues with his property. Mr A had a homecare / home emergency policy with British 
Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas).
What happened
Mr A made a claim to British Gas in September 2021 when he identified a leak on his 
sewage waste pipe. The pipe was positioned outside his property taking waste from the first 
floor of the property. The pipe entered the garage on the ground floor via a felted flat roof.
Between October 2021 and January 2021, Mr A was left frustrated as British Gas cancelled 
several of the scheduled appointments that it had made. Mr A was unhappy when British 
Gas did attend as it took four visits before its contractor completed the works (by cutting out 
the old pipe and installing a new pipe). During this time, Mr A made several phone calls 
chasing up appointments.
British Gas said several of the delays were due to sickness caused by Covid-19. It said its 
terms and conditions set out it will complete work in a reasonable timescale, unless 
something beyond our control makes that impossible. However, British Gas did 
acknowledge it couldve done better and offered a goodwill payment of £150 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
Mr A said, after British Gas had replaced the pipe he noticed water was leaking through the 
roof where the new pipe had been installed. British Gas said it had sealed around the new 
pipe, where it entered through the garage roof, so it didnt think the repair wouldve caused a 
new leak. 
British Gas offered to visit Mr As property to inspect and identify what was causing the leak. 
However, Mr A decided he didnt want British Gas to visit his property and he asked his own 
contractor to complete a repair. He said he didnt trust British Gas. Mr A said British Gas 
poor workmanship during the repairs had led to a further leak in his garage roof which 
wouldve caused the timbers in his roof to go rotten. He wants British Gas to provide more 
compensation for the damage caused to his roof and for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to him. 
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He thought the level of inconvenience 
caused to Mr A in getting the pipe replaced was significant, so he awarded an additional 
£150 in compensation (£300 in total). However, he didnt think Mr A had provided sufficient 
evidence that British Gas workmanship had caused the leak to the roof and as Mr A rejected 
British Gas offer to review the work carried out, he didnt feel that there was anything more it 
could reasonably do in the circumstances. Mr A disagreed, so the case has been referred to 
an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first considered the level of distress and inconvenience caused by the delay in getting 
the pipe replaced. British Gas provided evidence to show that many of the delays were 
caused by sickness during the Covid-19 pandemic which led to a depletion of its workforce. I 
think its reasonable to expect some delays due to the pandemic  it was an unprecedented 
event. I can see in addition to labour issues, British Gas experienced prolonged lead times 
for materials. These issues were common in the construction industry around that time.
However, it doesnt appear that British Gas was completely transparent with Mr A when it 
communicated these difficulties and I think this will have enhanced the level of distress he 
was feeling. The number of phone calls chasing up appointments wouldve inconvenienced 
Mr A. I can see some of the delays were avoidable and were directly caused by British Gas 
contractors not properly scoping out the works on the first visit (e.g. digging and scaffolding 
requirements). Therefore, it took four visits before the repairs were completed. 
I think the delays and the nature of a leak involving wastewater will have caused the level of 
distress to be greater. So, I uphold this aspect of the complaint. I require British Gas to pay 
£300 compensation in total (£150 more than its original offer) to fully reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused by these circumstances. Im pleased that British Gas accepted our 
investigators finding on this.
Ive considered what Mr A has said that British Gas poor workmanship caused an additional 
leak in his garage. Mr A has provided photographs which highlight the work that British Gas 
contractors carried out. One photograph shows lead flashing that has been attached around 
the replaced pipe and on top of the garage. The purpose of this flashing would be to stop 
rainwater penetrating the hole in the garage roof where the pipe passed through.
British Gas said it sealed beneath this flashing, so it didnt think this would cause a further 
leak. However, the picture shared by Mr A does show a clear gap between the roof and the 
flashing. Mr A has said the flashing has been poorly fitted. I tend to agree, I do think the 
workmanship couldve been better. I wouldve expected the flashing to be flush with the felt 
roof. Mr A has said this has led to significant water damage to the timbers in his garage.
The purpose of our service is to put Mr A back into the position he was in before any issues 
British Gas may have caused. British Gas has provided evidence that Mr As flat roof was 
generally in a poor state. I have reviewed photographs provided and I can see the roof felt is 
very old and in a poor condition. I think its likely it is near to the end of its useful life. Its 
likely it would need to be replaced soon.
Therefore, I cant be certain whether it was British Gas poor workmanship that caused the 
damage to the timbers or general wear and tear to the roof. I havent seen any evidence to 
see what the condition of the timbers were in before British Gas carried out its work. 
However, I think British Gas offer to re-visit the works was a reasonable one. I have no 
reason to doubt if it did find an issue with the previous works it wouldve put it right and any 
damage caused because of those works. I think its reasonable for British Gas to be given 
the opportunity to put right any issues it caused.
However, Mr A didnt want British Gas to inspect the works and chose to have the repairs 
carried out himself.  Unfortunately, no evidence has been provided by Mr As own contractor 
or any other expert to explain what caused the damage to the timbers. So, I have based my 
decision based on the evidence I have been provided.
As I dont think British Gas has been given opportunity to inspect the works  and put right 
any issues (if necessary), I dont think it would be fair of me to ask British Gas to pay for any additional repairs that have been carried out. I cant be certain based on the evidence if work 
carried out by British Gas has caused a further leak or damage. Therefore, I dont uphold 
this part of the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require British Gas Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr A:
£150 compensation  for distress and inconvenience (plus the original £150 
compensation offer if it hasnt yet been paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman