DRN-2243749
The complaint
Mr Bs representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC) complains that National 
Westminster Bank Plc (Nat West) wrongly advised him to invest into a Guaranteed Capital 
Bond when other products may have been better suited to his personal circumstances. 
 
What happened
Mr B sold his business in the early 2000s and raised around £150,000 from this sale. Mr B 
had no outstanding liabilities and was keen to invest some of this cash. Mr B had funds left 
over for living expenses and for emergencies or unforeseen expenditure.
Mr B met with an advisor from Nat West in 2003 and was advised to invest £25,000 in a 
Guaranteed Capital Bond (GCB). This bond ran for a period of 5 years and 6 months. The 
bond matured with a value of £25,000 which matched his initial investment.
The CMC complained to Nat West that as Mr B was an inexperienced investor, the product 
which was recommended was not suitable and the downside risks of the bond were not fully 
explained. They say that there were other products available which would have better suited 
his circumstances, would have been lower risk and guaranteed a return on his capital.
Nat West investigated the complaint but did not believe that they had done anything wrong 
and rejected the complaint. 
Unhappy with Nat Wests response, Mr B via the CMC asked the service to look at the 
complaint.  One of our investigators reviewed the case but thought that the advice provided 
by Nat West was unsuitable and upheld the complaint for the following reasons:
Advice was unsuitable due to the lack of discussion around alternative investments
The product was too complicated for Mr B to understand the likelihood of making a return
The client Fact Find completed by the advisor describes exactly the product 
recommended and he thought that it was unlikely that the client would have used these 
words to describe his needs  
Mr B had no knowledge or experience as an investor and would not have fully 
appreciated the risk of a nil return on his investment
Had the advisor offered a full and fair comparison of the relative risks then he didnt think 
that Mr B would have accepted the recommendation  
Nat West were unhappy with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at 
the complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators view for much of the same reasons and will be upholding the 
complaint.
Nat West have challenged some of the investigators points in a letter to the service and I will 
cover off these in my response.
 
When a business provides advice to a consumer, they need to consider many factors which 
include the clients personal circumstances and experience, their financial commitments, 
attitude to risk and financial aims.  This is normally done via a fact find or suitability 
assessment and the answers will allow a business to provide advice that matches what the 
consumer is looking to achieve. 
Within a section of the Fact Find called Customers Views, the advisor has written:
Prepared to tie up your money in a fixed term product that aims to offer a minimum amount 
at a set point of time in the future. You are keen to invest the funds for a period of 5 years 
and 6 months.
The investigator thought that the advisor worded the fact find in such a way that matched the 
product descripting and objectives. Having read this, I tend to agree that this is not 
something that an inexperienced investor would say was his objective. I acknowledge that 
fact finds are written by the advisor and some of the responses are paraphrased but this 
does sound manufactured around the investment that the advisor recommended.
The fact find also records details of what alternative investments were discussed and the 
advisor has written:
Mr B does not wish to invest for an income, prefers to use dep acc funds as a sinking fund 
prior to reaching 60, returning to pt work, and reaching 65. Thus, wishes to invest for capital 
growth potential only. Did not wish to invest the proposed investment funds in fixed rate 
saving bonds such as mill bonds or pers savings bonds 
I understand that the mill bond refers to Nat Wests inhouse Millennium Bond. The advisor 
noted that Mr B did not wish income and there is no reasoning recorded as to why the client 
did not wish to invest for income but growth. The GCB would have provided Mr B with 
growth had the bond performed in a favourable manner. The issue I need to consider is 
whether the other products which were available would also have returned growth.
Its not clear from the file what the characteristics of the other bonds mentioned were. I note 
that the Bank of England base rate at the time that Mr B took out the GCB was 3.75%. It is 
likely that the other bonds referred in the fact find would have been at least the same as the 
Bank of England rate if not higher. The CMC say that the chances of a 5-year fixed rate 
savings plan offering greater potential growth than the GCB were very likely. 
If Mr B had taken out a fixed rate savings bond, he would have achieved a guaranteed rate 
of interest without any risks to his capital. I have not seen that Mr B was given any 
comparison with such accounts or informed of what fixed rate returns Nat West had at the 
time. 
In their letter to the service, Nat West have referred to the Suitability Letter that was sent to 
Mr B. This says:We discussed investment funds ISAs, with profit bonds and savings bonds which have been 
ruled out because you preferred the Guaranteed Capital Bond IV in preference to a personal 
savings bond and you accept the uncertainty of return on the GCB as opposed to the fixed 
rate of return of the personal savings bond. Similarly, you did not wish to invest any of your 
funds in the with profit bond or investment funds ISA, as you preferred the key features of 
the GCB
 
This does give evidence that records that other products were discussed but what is still not 
clear is what comparisons were provided to Mr B about what he could have received, on a 
guaranteed return basis, without any risk to his capital. 
I also need to consider that as Mr B was an inexperienced investor whether he fully 
understood the risks involved in investing in the GCB and how the FTSE would need to 
perform in order that he received the return shown in the key features and illustrations.
Having read the documentation about the GCB there is a risk of a nil return. I have read the 
key features document and the brochure which details the benefits of the GCB. For Mr B to 
have made any return on his initial investment, the FTSE would have had to have risen by 
5.3% over the period of the bond  anything lower and Mr B would have received only his 
initial investment back. Comparing this to the return of any savings bond over the period, the 
GCB certainly carried more risk of a nil return  something a savings bond would have 
eliminated.
Mr B was an inexperienced investor with no history of investing in the stock market and no 
history of taking any significant risks to his money. The GCB was guaranteed to return the 
money originally invested  not to provide a guaranteed growth on his capital. The CMC say 
that Mr B would not have been able to make an informed choice on the likelihood of the 
product earning him a return or indeed the odds of this product giving him no return on his 
money.
Nat West have said that the product brochure is clearly explained and that it does not 
believe that it is difficult to understand. They say it clearly states that if the FTSE grows by 
5.3% over the term then the customer would receive a return on maturity.
I have considered this noting Mr Bs experience and the product documentation. I have 
reviewed the key features document and brochure and there is only one paragraph which 
describes the circumstances in which the client would receive a return on their investment 
over and above the initial capital. 
The section which describes the risk factors states that the amount you receive at the end of 
the term will depend on the performance of the FTSE. It refers to the illustration but does not 
include the circumstances. 
I think that on the balance of probability, Mr B understood that a nil return was possible but 
would not have understood the odds of the GCB performing sufficiently well to give him a 
return on his investment. In the two documents that cover 6 pages of text, the circumstances 
in which Mr B would receive a return over above his initial capital amount is mentioned once.
In summary, I think that the documentation provided to Mr B did not highlight in enough 
detail, the circumstances in which he would have received a return on his money. The 
document describes the return of capital as a benefit, but I think that Mr B was looking for 
growth on his investment as the main benefit  not just a return of his money. I also think 
that there is little evidence to show that comparisons were provided to Mr B which would 
shown him what he could have received from fixed rate savings bonds rather than the GCB.In accessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim is to put Mr B as close 
to the position he would probably be in now had he not been giving unsuitable advice. 
I think Mr B would have invested differently and although its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done, Ive set out in my decision what I want Nat West to do.
  
Putting things right
I require National Westminster Bank Plc to undertake the following actions:
Calculation 1. Compare the performance of Mr Bs investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment.  If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Nat West should also pay interest as set out below.
Investment 
name Status Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date) Additional 
interest 
Guaranteed 
Capital 
Bond Matured Average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investment Date of 
maturity 8% simple 
per year on 
any loss 
from the 
end date to 
payment 
date 
Calculation 2. Nat West should also pay 8% simple interest per year on any loss from the 
end date to the date of this decision.
Actual value 
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date 
Fair value 
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark 
Benchmark 
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Nat West 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12  17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is shown as at the end of the 
previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually 
compounded basis.
  
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman