DRN-3052910
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) didnt close his mortgage account when 
he sold his property.
What happened
Mr M had a mortgage with Santander and at the end of January 2021, the balance was 
£48,571.83. He sold his flat and the sale proceeds of £48,883.60 was paid into the mortgage 
account on 6 February 2021.  However, the mortgage wasnt redeemed and the monthly 
direct debit for £430.18 still went through on 22 February 2021. After speaking to Santander 
on 24 February 2021, £430.18 was refunded to Mr M on that day. But  on 25 February 
2021, the direct debit was also returned unpaid, and so the balance of the mortgage account 
was then £430.18.
Mr M complained. He said that Santander shouldve realised the mortgage was to be 
redeemed, closed it and cancelled the direct debit  when the solicitors paid the money in on 
6 February 2021. As a result, he paid bank charges of £12 to his own bank (which wasnt 
Santander). And because he didnt know what was happening he spent the £430.18 from his 
bank account, and so he was out of pocket. He said that Santander should write off the 
amount he owed on the mortgage - £430.18.
Santander said the problem arose because Mr Ms solicitors had simply paid in the sale 
proceeds to his mortgage and not notified them the mortgage was to be redeemed. So  the 
payment was treated as a credit, not a redemption of the mortgage. And so  the direct debit 
went through as normal. They accepted that they were partly to blame  because they 
should have realised the mortgage was to be redeemed. But also  Mr Ms solicitor 
shouldve notified them the payment was for the redemption and they didnt  so they were 
also responsible. When Mr M called Santander on 24 February 2021, they agreed to refund 
the amount of the direct debit (£430.18) to his bank account, and also paid compensation of 
£40 to cover his time spent on resolving matters, and to meet the bank charges hed paid. 
Mr M accepted this. But then  Mr Ms direct debit was also returned unpaid, resulting in an 
outstanding balance on the mortgage. And  this had to be repaid by Mr M.
Mr M brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said there wasnt any evidence that Mr 
Ms solicitor notified Santander that the payment was for the redemption of the mortgage. 
And so  it was treated as a credit to the account. And so  Santander couldnt be held 
responsible. He said Mr M should pay the outstanding balance on the mortgage. But 
Santander had also offered to pay compensation of a further £100  which he put to Mr M. 
He said Mr M should contact his solicitor to see if they could provide any evidence that they 
notified Santander that the mortgage should be redeemed.
Mr M didnt accept the offer from Santander and asked that his complaint be looked at by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the transactions on Mr Ms mortgage. On 6 February 2021, £48,883.60 was 
paid in. This paid off the balance of £48,571.83 and left a small credit balance. What would 
then normally happen is that Santander would pass any outstanding interest to the account 
and close it. But to do that, they needed to be notified that the mortgage was to be formally 
redeemed and closed. Mr Ms solicitors had written to Santander in November 2020 - to say 
they were dealing with the sale of Mr Ms property and asked for a redemption statement as 
at 1 December 2020. This is normal practice. On 1 December 2020, Santander then sent the 
redemption statement. This had the amount that was then due, and the letter said, please 
complete the Redemption Notification Slip and return it to us when you redeem the account. 
The notification slip was attached which said, I enclose a payment/have telegraphically 
transferred an amount of` £xxxxto redeem account number xxxx. But  we havent seen 
any evidence that this was sent to Santander. We asked Mr M to contact his solicitors for 
any evidence that they notified Santander about the redemption. But they could only confirm 
that a faster payment of £48,883.60 was made to the mortgage account. There wasnt any 
evidence they advised Santander of the redemption.  
I cant see that Mr Ms solicitor advised Santander that the mortgage was to be redeemed. 
And so  Santander are not entirely responsible for what happened. Santander treated the 
payment as a credit to the mortgage account, and not a redemption payment. And so  the 
direct debit for £430.18 was taken on 22 February 2021. 
Mr M called Santander on 24 February 2021, and Ive listened to the call. In it, Mr M told 
Santander that the direct debit would be returned unpaid as he didnt have the money in his 
bank account. So  that shouldve sorted things out. But Mr M then was transferred to 
Santanders complaints department. They said they shouldve realised the mortgage was to 
be redeemed and they paid compensation of £40 for this and to cover Mr Ms bank charges. 
On the call, Mr M accepted this in settlement of his complaint. But  the complaints 
department werent aware that the direct debit would bounce and refunded the amount of 
the direct debit to Mr Ms bank account. And in this respect, Santander made an error. And it 
caused there to be a balance of £430.18 outstanding on Mr Ms mortgage.
Mr M says that Santander transferred £430.18 from his mortgage to his bank account in 
error  creating the debit balance on the mortgage  so he should not have to repay it. He 
says he spent the money from his bank account. Santander have apologised for this error 
and offered Mr M a further compensation payment of £100. Ive considered this point, and I 
think its reasonable to expect Mr M to have realised that he had the extra £430.18 in his 
bank account. I noted that he was aware of his bank balance when he called Santander on 
24 February 2021  as he knew the direct debit would be returned  so it looks like he 
tracked his bank account closely. And so I dont think its fair to conclude he spent the 
money because he wasnt aware of his situation. And - I think its reasonable for him to 
repay the outstanding balance of £430.18 on the mortgage.
Putting Things Right
Santander paid Mr M compensation of £40 for not recognising the payment as being a 
redemption and for his bank charges. Given that I think that Mr Ms solicitors were equally 
responsible for what happened, I think that was fair. Santander also offered a further 
payment of £100 for the confusion caused by refunding the amount of the direct debit when 
Mr M had advised it would be returned anyway. In the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint, I 
think thats a fair way to resolve matters. It he wishes to accept this final decision, Mr M 
should advise whether he wishes to have the payment of £100 paid to his bank account, or 
credited to his mortgage account to reduce the amount that he owes.  My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc must:
Pay compensation of £100 to Mr M for distress and inconvenience. Mr M to advise 
Santander how he wants to receive this payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman