DRN-3058457
The complaint
Mrs W complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) were irresponsible to lend 
to her.
What happened
Mrs W had four loans from Mr Lender between June 2014 and May 2017 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Max Monthly
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 27 Jun 2014 £300 28d £405.00 25 Jul 2014 24 Sep 2014
2 rollovers
2 24 Sep 2014 £500 3m £316.66 19 Dec 2014 25 Mar 2015
3 10 Jan 2017 £500 5m £189.60 31 May 2017 On time
4 31 May 2017 £1,000 6m £406.66 30 Nov 2017 28 Jan 2021
Repayment plan
Mrs W says that if Mr Lender had carried out proper checks, it would have seen she was 
vulnerable and that the loans worsened her financial circumstances. She says she had 
loans with multiple companies at the time of the lending and it should have been clear to 
Mr Lender that she was relying on borrowing to meet her living expenses. Mrs W says that 
Mr Lender did not confirm her employment and the discount it says it applied was due to 
the interest cap, not because of her financial difficulties. She adds that she quickly fell into 
arrears and became unwell with depression and stress as a result.
Mr Lender commented that the first loan was outside the six-year timeframe for 
investigation. It says it conducted an employment check and a credit check and asked Mrs 
W about her income and expenditure. It says it found the loans were affordable based on 
the information it had at the time, although it applied a discount of £142.87 when Mrs W 
struggled to repay loan 4, Mr Lender offered to remove all loans from Mrs Ws credit file as 
a goodwill gesture.
Our adjudicator found that all four loans were within the services jurisdiction, but she did 
not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied Mr Lender carried out 
proportionate checks and there was nothing in the available information to indicate Mrs W 
was struggling to manage her money.
Mrs W responded to say, in summary, that she disagreed with the adjudicators findings, 
particularly in relation to loan 4. She said, that although she had repaid loan 3 on time, 
shed had a late payment during the term of the loan and as soon as it had been repaid, 
she requested a loan for twice the amount. Mrs W says her repayment history and 
increased loan application should have indicated to Mr Lender that it should have carried 
out a more detailed affordability check. Had it done so, Mrs W says, Mr Lender would have 
seen she had multiple short-term loans in the months leading up to loans 3 and 4. She 
says Mr Lender would have seen she was stuck in a cycle of borrowing and she quickly fell 
into arrears on loan 4.
Specifically, Mrs W says she disagreed that checks should be less thorough during the 
early stages of a lending relationship, and only become as such when a good lending 
relationship has developed. She cites the Office of Fair Tradings Irresponsible Lending 
Guidance in her response.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Mrs W and to Mr Lender on 31 August 2021. The relevant 
guidelines were outlined in the provisional decision, including those to which Mrs W referred 
in her response, so I wont repeat them here.
I summarise my findings:
I was satisfied the checks carried out by Mr Lender went far enough for loan 1 and 
the available information did not indicate the loan was unaffordable;
So I didnt conclude Mr Lender was wrong to have approved Loan 1;
I considered Mr Lender carried out enough checks for loan 2, and had no reason to 
decline the application, because:
oMrs W had a good repayment history to date;
oThe highest repayment due on the loan was around 20% of her income;
oBased on Mrs Ws declared regular expenditure, she had a disposable 
income of over £1,100 per month;
oThere was nothing in the information that Mr Lender had at the time that 
indicated Mrs W was in financial difficulty.
There was a gap of almost two years before Mrs W borrowed from Mr Lender again 
and, as such, I considered loan 3 could be treated in isolation to Mrs Ws first two 
loans;
I found the loan 3 checks were proportionate and indicated the repayments were 
affordable to Mrs W;
However, I was not satisfied the checks went far enough when Mrs W applied for 
loan 4 because:
oBoth the loan and the maximum scheduled repayment was double that of 
loan 3;
oThe loan was taken out the same day Mrs W needed to repay loan 3;
oThe term of the loan was six months, and Mr Lender needed to be satisfied 
the repayments were sustainable over that period;
oThe credit check showed only summary information;
oAlthough Mrs W repaid loan 3 on its due date:
Her second repayment was interest only;
Her third repayment was initially declined and was six days late;
Her fourth repayment was initially declined and was a day late;She repaid the final instalment on time, including the additional 
amount caused by her reduced second instalment, but she borrowed 
a further £1,000 the same day;
oThe amount Mrs W had declared she was spending on existing loans had 
increased to £290;
oAlthough Mrs W said her income had increased to £1,900, the maximum 
repayment due on loan 4, plus her declared existing loans, meant that around 
37% of her declared income was committed to credit repayments.
As a result of the above, I didnt think it was fair of Mr Lender to decide to lend on the 
basis of the information it had for loan 4 and, at the least, it ought to have checked 
that Mrs W didnt have anything else to pay outside of her regular expenses that 
might have impacted on her ability to make her repayments, such as any outstanding 
short-term loans from other providers;
I acknowledged that Mr Lender said that it asked Mrs W about her existing credit 
commitments and she said she needed to pay £290 per month to other lenders. Mr 
Lender said that this included commitments to short term lenders but, as Mr Lender 
hadnt explained how it gathered this information from Mrs W or what it found out 
about her existing credit when it checked her credit file, I couldnt say that it took 
reasonable steps to check Mrs Ws existing short-term lending commitments at that 
time;
So I looked at a copy of Mrs Ws most recent credit file and it showed that on 31 May 
2017, when she applied for loan 4:
oMrs W was paying £288 per month on a hire purchase agreement;
oShe had four active credit cards for which she was making combined monthly 
payments of over £200;
oThere were two existing short-term loans with monthly repayments totalling 
£361;
oThere was also an open mail order account, but the balance in May 2017 was 
unclear from the credit report.
Mrs W also said that some accounts and defaults have subsequently been removed 
from her credit file, due to other affordability complaints;
So I was satisfied that, even without these additional accounts, loan 4 was 
unaffordable to Mrs W. I said that because her credit commitments were at least 
£860 per month and, given Mrs Ws other expenditure, this would have left her with 
around £340 of disposable income  less than the £400 repayment she needed to 
make.
In summary, given the extent of Mrs Ws other borrowing, I think its likely that Mr Lender 
would have uncovered this had it looked into her finances in greater depth and, as a 
responsible lender, would not have agreed this fourth loan for Mrs W. Indeed, I note that 
Mrs W made no repayments on loan 4 for around six months.
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Mrs Ws complaint about loan 4.
Mrs W responded to agree with my provisional decision.
Mr Lender responded to say, in summary that:Mrs Ws late payments on loan 3 were due to fraudulent activity on her account (for 
which it has provided evidence);
It did not agree that further checks were required for loan 4 given it was only the 
second loan in the chain;
Its credit check showed Mrs Ws credit commitments were in line with her declared 
monthly outgoings and that she only had one short-term loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice as 
outlined in my provisional decision.
Having looked at the further evidence provided by Mr Lender, I accept there appeared to be 
legitimate reasons for the late payments on loan 3 and they may not have been due to 
financial difficulties. But that being said, I still cant agree that no further checks were 
required based on loan 4 being only the second loan in the chain. I say that because the 
information Mr Lender collected (even excluding the late payments on loan 3) contained 
several indications that Mrs W might be struggling financially:
She applied for loan 4 the same day she repaid loan 3 and requested twice the 
amount of loan 3 to be repaid over a longer term;
Based on her own declarations, Mrs W would be committing around 37% of her 
income to repaying credit;
oIn the Finance and Leasing Associations Lending Code, published in 2006, it 
suggested that a consumer spending more than 25% of their gross income on 
consumer credit could be an indication of someone experiencing financial 
difficulty.
I accept that Mr Lenders credit check for loan 4 showed only one Advance Against Income 
but Im not satisfied that such a check is sufficient to be confident Mrs W had no other short-
term loans because:
Short-term loans are often categorised as unsecured loans on credit files;
Mrs W may have taken out short-term loans in the weeks prior to loan 4 that would 
not yet be reflected on the credit file.
So, having taken Mr Lenders response into account, I still find more checks were required 
before loan 4 was approved and that these checks would have shown it was irresponsible to 
continue to lend to Mrs W.
Based on the above, I find no reason to depart from my provisional decision.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr 
Lender) should:A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs W towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 4;
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs W which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs W originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled;
C. Pay Mrs W the total of A plus B;
D. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ws credit file in relation to loan 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
should give Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman