DRN-4306359
The complaint
Mrs H has complained about the service provided by Helvetia Global Solutions Ltd 
(Helvetia) under her home emergency insurance policy.
For the avoidance of doubt, Helvetia includes its agents, representatives, and contractors in 
this decision letter.
What happened
In November 2022, Mrs H experienced a problem with the boiler at her home and reported 
the matter to Helvetia, being her home emergency insurers. She reported that some 
radiators were not working, and the system was making an unusually loud noise. Helvetia 
sent out an engineer, however Mrs H was unhappy with the service she received. She 
thought that its engineer made an incorrect diagnosis of the boiler problem which caused 
delay, and left Mrs H and her family without heating for over three weeks. Following visits by 
other engineers, it became clear that a new boiler would be required.
Mrs H also complained about the lack of communication, professionalism, and empathy from 
Helvetia. Helvetia said it offered Mrs H a £250 accommodation allowance in lieu of 
accommodation, £25 for communication failures, £250 for a new boiler contribution and 
finally £100 as a goodwill gesture for time shed been without facilities. Mrs H remained 
unhappy with the outcome of her complaint and requested further compensation. Helvetia 
considered that it had responded in a fair and reasonable manner to Mrs Hs complaint.
In the circumstances, Mrs H referred her complaint to this service. The relevant investigator 
upheld Mrs Hs complaint in part and recommended a slight increase in the compensation 
payable for delay from £100 to £150. The investigator did consider that there was an 
avoidable delay between the visit of the first engineer and the appropriate diagnosis a week 
later. She said that if the boiler problem had been diagnosed correctly, Mrs H would have 
been able to replace her boiler a little sooner. She hadnt seen evidence which persuaded 
her that the initial repair caused the subsequently diagnosed issues or the boilers total loss. 
She thought that whilst the first engineer may have incorrectly recommended purchase of a 
power flush, Mrs H didnt go ahead with this and said that a financial loss wasnt incurred.
Mrs H remained unhappy with the outcome of her complaint and felt that the overall 
compensation does not reflect the distress, deceit and unprofessional service we received. 
In the circumstances, the matter has been referred to me to make a final decision in my role 
as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to determine is whether Helvetia acted in a fair and reasonable manner 
as to the service provided to Mrs H in relation to her boiler. I dont consider that it did in all 
respects, however I agree with the relevant investigator here, that a modest additional sum 
of compensation would be appropriate in this case. In reaching my final decision, Ive also 
taken into account the submissions of each party as summarised below. 
Mrs H said that at the relevant time, she didnt have a fully working heating system although 
it still provided some heating, so shed contacted Helvetia. She said that Helvetias engineer 
had diagnosed the wrong problem and left her family with no heating at all during sub-zero 
temperatures. She also felt that shed been left her in a worse position than before. The 
engineer had suggested that Mrs H arrange for a specialist to flush the pipes as there was 
sludge in the system. Mrs H said that hed handed over his business card and said that this 
would make the boiler start. Mrs H considered this to have been dishonest and that the 
engineer had taken advantage of a vulnerable situation. Mrs H felt that if hed diagnosed 
things properly then she would have realised that the boiler was not fixable and needed 
replacing. She said that three further engineers visited, who confirmed that sludge wasnt the 
issue. Mrs H said that there had been a financial impact as shed had to buy heaters and 
electricity had cost more as shed had to use the immersion heater for hot water. 
Mrs H also complained about the lack of professionalism and empathy from some of the 
managers. She considered that the compensation was inadequate in the light of Helvetias 
service and communication failures. She said this had caused stress and anxiety, especially 
as she had young children in the house, with no hot water or heating for three weeks. Mrs H 
also said that shed spent over 30 hours on the phone on hold.  In short, she considered 
Helvetias service and communication to have been disgraceful and that £25 compensation 
for the communication issues was an insult. She also felt that Helvetia had put the family in 
an impossible situation for longer than was needed. 
 
I now turn to Helvetias submissions. It said that its engineer had found an issue with the fan 
on the central heating system and considered that this was the cause of the noise and that 
the radiators hadnt been installed correctly. It said that the engineer had provided a quote 
for a new pump and fan. It said that the relevant parts were ordered, and the engineer 
attended and replaced the parts. When doing it said that it became apparent that there was 
sludge in the system, which it said was evidenced in the engineers report. The system again 
failed, and the engineer considered that the boiler should be replaced and was beyond 
economical repair. Helvetia then considered that the claim was prolonged as Mrs H asked it 
to appoint further engineers to assess the boiler and try to repair it. It acknowledged however 
that there had been some communication failures. 
Helvetia accepted that an engineer who provided a second opinion had advised that the 
fault at this stage was due to the flame sensor. The pump and fan had already been 
replaced and ruled out by the initial engineer. He also confirmed that the fault he noted 
wasnt related to sludge. A third engineer then attended and recommended a third solution 
relating to replacement parts. Again, Helvetia said the repairs couldnt proceed, and deemed 
the boiler to be beyond economical repair, however it decided to return and proceed with 
this final attempt at a repair as a gesture... This attempt was unsuccessful, and Helvetia said 
that it was apparent that the main heat exchanger was also faulty and that the boiler needed 
to be replaced. It confirmed it had then provided Mrs H with a quote for a replacement boiler.
In conclusion, it acknowledged that its three engineers all diagnosed different problems but 
said that all have agreed that the boiler is not in a repairable condition and the outcome of 
the claim remains the same. It said that engineers follow a process of elimination which was 
what happened here. It therefore didnt agree that parts had been replaced without need and 
said the engineers had tried their best to carry out a repair. It said that ultimately the boiler 
had reached the end of its lifespan.
Having considered all the available evidence and the parties submissions, the reasons for 
partly upholding Mrs Hs complaint are as follows. I consider that its unfortunate that Helvetias three engineers diagnosed three different sets of problems. Nevertheless, I cant 
say that it was unreasonable for the engineers to have engaged in a process of elimination. 
Whilst Mrs H was disappointed that all attempts to repair the system had been unsuccessful, 
there is no evidence to suggest that any of the attempts had been unreasonable. Helvetia 
had attempted to accommodate Mrs Hs wish for the system to be repaired.
I consider that the evidence suggests that there were a number of technical problems with 
the central heating system which it hadnt been possible to fix. Its likely that there were inter-
linked issues with the system, and Im persuaded that the system had reached the end of its 
lifespan and that Helvetia had reached this conclusion reasonably quickly. Mrs H has also 
acknowledged that she knew there was an issue with the boiler and that ultimately it may 
have been beyond economical repair. 
I appreciate that Mrs H felt that Helvetias engineer had tried to persuade her to purchase an 
expensive solution that in retrospect was unlikely to have made a difference. I agree with 
Mrs H that this does raise some concerns. However, Helvetias records also show that the 
same engineer later gave the opinion that the boiler was beyond economical repair. Im 
therefore unable to find that his initial solution was offered in bad faith. In addition, Mrs H 
didnt accept the solution and incurred no financial loss. On balance, I also cant say that it 
was unfair or unreasonable for Helvetia to have tried to assist Mrs H by attempting to repair 
the heating system and then offering a contribution towards a new boiler. 
I agree with our investigator in this instance that when a consumer disagrees with the 
insurers findings, we expect the insurer to take reasonable action to progress the claim. 
Helvetia did so by allowing for second and third opinions. I dont consider that the timescale 
involved in engaging in these efforts was wholly unfair or unreasonable and I consider that 
by the final visit, it had exhausted all repair options. Having said this, I do consider that it is 
likely that there was a degree of avoidable delay following the initial visit of Helvetias 
engineer. Helvetia has also acknowledged its communication failures, however as these 
were over a relatively short period, I cant say that the compensation already offered by 
Helvetia in this respect was unreasonable.
Finally, I sympathise with Mrs H for the fact that she and her young family had to endure 
heating problems and the associated stress at the coldest time of the year. Unfortunately, 
boiler break-down inevitably caused stress and inconvenience. To award significant 
compensation however, I would need to be satisfied that Helvetias actions were responsible 
for distress and inconvenience over and above that inevitably caused by a breakdown. This 
being in the context of a heating system which had reached the end of its life. Im satisfied 
that a short delay between the first incorrect diagnosis of the problem and the appropriate 
diagnosis of a boiler that was beyond economical repair. I consider that this meant that Mrs 
H had a replacement boiler slightly later than would otherwise have been the case. I agree in 
the circumstances that £150 in total would be appropriate compensation to recognise the 
distress and inconvenience caused by this failure. If Helvetia has already paid £100 for the 
time she was without facilities, then Helvetia would need to pay the balance of £50 only.
.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partly uphold Mrs Hs complaint and I require Helvetia Global 
Solutions Ltd to pay Mrs H compensation of £150 in total, to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience caused for the time she was without facilities.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 Claire Jones
Ombudsman