DRN-2304422
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Aviva Insurance Limited mis-sold a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs H in 1999. The policy 
provided Mr and Mrs H with cover if they couldnt work because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely
to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Aviva gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Hs needs?
- Did Aviva give Mr and Mrs H the information they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
and Mrs H are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I would like to say at the outset that I am sympathetic to the very difficult circumstances Mr 
and Mrs H find themselves in. I dont underestimate how distressing those circumstances 
must be, and it is not my intention to contribute further to the situation. I hope they will 
understand that we assess each case according to its own facts, using the approach set out 
on our website. Having followed that process for this case, I have decided not to uphold the 
complaint. Ive set out my reasons below, which I hope will help Mr and Mrs H to understand 
why.
Mr and Mrs H say they didnt know they had the PPI, and they dont remember it being 
discussed when they arranged their mortgage. Ive noted everything Mr and Mrs H have 
said. 
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs H and 
Aviva when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place over twenty 
years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
But Ive reviewed some of the paperwork that was completed at the time. Mr and Mrs H 
completed and signed a quotation proposal for the PPI, for which they had to answer a 
number of questions about their circumstances. The document shows they already had a 
PPI policy in place with a different provider, so I think its likely they were aware of what this 
type of protection offered, and wanted to make sure their mortgage was covered if things 
went wrong.
The PPI application was separate to their mortgage application, so I think Mr and Mrs H 
wouldve known that taking the PPI wasnt a condition of getting the mortgage.
Overall, from what Ive seen, I dont think I can safely say that Aviva didnt make Mr and Mrs 
H aware of the PPI, or that they had a choice about buying it. 
Aviva has accepted that it advised Mr and Mrs H to take out the policy and it doesnt look like 
it was unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say 
this because:
- Mr and Mrs H were eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the PPI terms 
and conditions.
- Mr and Mrs H say they were entitled to benefits from their employers if they were off 
work sick, and that they had some savings. But the policy wouldve paid out in 
addition to their employer benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having the 
policy in place would mean Mr and Mrs H could use their employer benefits and 
savings to cover other expenses if things went wrong. So I think they wouldve had 
some use for the policy, despite their existing arrangements.
Ive noted what Mr and Mrs H have said about the policy benefit not being enough to 
cover the mortgage if only one of them was off work sick. But in those circumstances 
the other partner wouldve still been working, so their salary wouldve cover their 
share of the mortgage. Im not persuaded that the policy benefit wasnt enough, so 
this point doesnt change my overall conclusions about the complaint. 
- Mr and Mrs H werent affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main 
benefits, such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing 
medical conditions. As they could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I 
think it unlikely they needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions 
and limitations.
- The cost of the policy was set out in an illustration provided to Mr and Mrs H before 
the PPI started. So I think Mr and Mrs H wouldve known how much they would be 
paying for the policy and found it acceptable. The policy was competitively priced and 
apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely they would have made a different decision 
if better information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Aviva gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But they chose to take out the policy and so appear to have wanted this type of cover. As Ive already said Mr and Mrs H werent affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs H 
would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I 
think they would still have taken out the policy.
Mr and Mrs H have queried the reference to Plevin commission that was mentioned by the 
adjudicator. In some cases a refund of commission is due for policies sold on credit products 
(including mortgages) held between certain dates. But the refunds are only relevant where 
the PPI was sold by a lender, rather than an insurer like Aviva. So a commission refund is 
not applicable to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about Aviva. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman