DRN-3684107
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the service received from AWP P&C SA (AWP) under his 
home emergency insurance policy.
Reference to AWP in this letter includes its agents and contractors. Reference to Mr D 
includes actions and representations made by his son on his behalf.
What happened
In mid-January 2021, Mr Ds boiler stopped working and he contacted AWP to request that it 
come out to fix the boiler. He had a home emergency policy with AWP at the relevant time. 
An engineer attended the following day and the engineer deemed that the boiler was beyond 
economic repair (BER). Mr D was informed of this and the engineer supplied Mr D with two 
emergency heaters.
A day later, Mr D called AWP to understand what was happening with the boiler. AWP 
explained the boiler was BER and a request had been raised for a £500 BER contribution in 
accordance with the policy. Mr D said: - in the meantime presumably I must organise the 
replacement. The agent said, I would wait for a manager to get back to you so they can tell 
you what documents well need.
Mr D subsequently called AWP and explained that hed spoken with someone at AWP five 
days earlier who advised not to replace the boiler, as a manager would call them back, yet 
there had been no call. Mr D confirmed that hed nevertheless gone ahead and arranged for 
replacement of the boiler. AWP requested the relevant invoice to raise the £500 BER 
contribution. As a goodwill gesture for service failures, AWP offered to pay £25 in 
compensation and then increased this sum to £50.
Mr D raised a complaint, as he was unhappy with the information provided by AWP and said 
that Mr D and his wife were left without heating and hot water for nearly six days. He said 
that had he not chosen to ignore the business's instructions he would have continued to be 
without heating as he hadnt received the promised call to authorise a replacement boiler. He 
felt hed been ignored for months on end and had spent hours on the phone trying to deal 
with matters. Mr D wished to receive a written explanation and compensation.
As Mr D was unhappy with AWPs final response, he complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that although APW had suggested that Mr 
D wait for a manager to get back to him, she didnt agree it said Mr D couldnt or shouldnt 
replace the boiler or to do nothing. She thought the agent was trying to be helpful in that 
AWP would need relevant documents to be able to make the £500 contribution and it might 
have helped if Mr D: knew what these documents were, before organising the replacement 
to be fitted. As Mr D went ahead and had the boiler replaced, this in her view indicated he 
was aware that arranging the replacement boiler was the policy holders responsibility. 
Our investigator didnt think there was anything further AWP could have done to help to 
avoid the situation and that it reasonably provided two heaters. She noted AWPs 
explanation for the delay in dealing with the complaint. She also explained that when a 
business issues their final response and refers the matter to our service, theyre not 
expected to send any further responses. In the circumstances, our investigator concluded 
that AWPs offer of a £50 goodwill payment was fair and reasonable. 
Mr D didnt accept the investigators findings and the matter was referred to me to make a 
decision in my role as Ombudsman. In August 2022, I issued a provisional decision for this 
complaint and explained why I was minded to uphold Mr Ds complaint as follows; -
The key issue for me to determine is whether AWP applied the terms of the policy fairly and
reasonably and whether it generally provided a fair and reasonable service to Mr D. If not, I
must determine whether AWPs response to Mr Ds complaint was fair and reasonable. Ive
concluded on a provisional basis that AWP didnt act in fair and reasonable manner in all
respects and that an increased sum in compensation would be appropriate. Ill explain why.
My starting point will be the relevant terms and conditions of the policy. Under the heading: -
what is coveredPrimary heating system, it states: -
If your boiler is beyond economical repair or replacement parts are no longer available, we
will also pay up to £500 in total (incl VAT) towards labour and parts to replace the boiler,
once we receive confirmation that the boiler has been replaced.
It states: It is important to remember that you must phone [the relevant company]. Please do
not make any arrangements yourself as we cannot refund any costs if you do not get our
prior authorisation.
It also states: We aim to provide you with a first class policy and service. However, there
may be times when you feel we have not done so. If this is the case, please tell us about it
so that we can do our best to solve the problem...
Turning to Mr Ds submissions regarding his complaint, he stated that when hed called
AWP, hed asked whether he could arrange for a replacement boiler to be installed. The
response from AWPs agents was not to do so yet. Mr D said he was assured that he would
be called within 24 hours. He explained that his parents were elderly and disabled. He also
explained that it was freezing outdoors so they could not be left without heat. Mr D said that
no one called so he called again the next day and that he had to chase. Mr D decided to
proceed with the installation of a new boiler as he felt he couldnt be left without heating any
longer. He said that had he not been told to wait he would have arranged for a plumber to
attend earlier.
After sending the invoice for the replacement boiler, Mr D said that AWP failed to reply for a
further month and: when doing so requested a gas safe certificate and proof of servicing of
the old boiler. This was provided promptly but he was asked for another copy three days
later. He had also shown this to the engineer who originally visited.
Mr D also said that his complaint about AWPs service was not responded to for a very
lengthy period. When he chased it up, AWP first offered £25 in compensation and then £50.
In summary, he considered AWPs service and lack of customer care to be shocking.
Turning to what AWP have said about the matter, it considered there was no delay in
deeming the boiler to be BER as the engineer attended on the day following Mr Ds claim. It
agreed that Mr D was informed of the BER decision following his call on the morning after
the engineers visit. It didnt consider this to be excessive as it said it could take up to 24
hours for the engineers report to be received. AWP acknowledged that it had experienced
an unprecedented number of claims and queries at the relevant time and that there was a
backlog of complaints which caused delays in dealing with them.AWP had said that it was very sorry to learn of the problems that Mr D had experienced. It
said that the issues raised had been addressed with relevant parties to avoid a similar
situation in future, and to help meet customers expectations. It acknowledged that it had
failed to provide a level of service that Mr D had a right to expect. It had increased its offer of
a goodwill payment from £25 to £50 due to Mr Ds continuing concerns.
Ive considered all evidence and submissions carefully in reaching this provisional decision. I
note that Mr D had made it clear from the outset that his parents were elderly and disabled.
Im satisfied that this will have placed AWP on notice that the matter required prompt and
efficient handling. Having said this, boiler failures in themselves are stressful events and
inevitably leave consumers without heat and hot water for a period of time whilst
replacements are provided.
It is only where the handling of insurance claims adds to the stress and inconvenience that
apologies and/or compensation may be appropriate. AWP acted promptly in some respects.
Firstly, Im satisfied that AWP sent its engineer promptly to assess the problem with the
boiler. Im also satisfied that the engineers response was appropriate. There is evidence
that the boiler was indeed BER and that he supplied emergency heaters. He explained that
the insurance company would contact Mr D to discuss options.
I note that Mr D hadnt claimed he was unaware that he would have to organise a
replacement. Im satisfied that he was advised against doing so until he had been called by a
manager. On a preliminary basis, I can understand why a policy holder would be reticent
about organising a replacement boiler, in case this would in some way invalidate the claim. It
is therefore likely that Mr D and his wife were without hot water and full heating for two or
three days longer than necessary. I consider that the distress and inconvenience was
minimised due the fact that Mr Ds son decided to go ahead to arrange the work. Im mindful
however that vulnerable individuals had been left in difficult circumstances for slightly longer
than necessary.
The prompt action taken by Mr Ds son, will have minimised the additional distress and
inconvenience caused to Mr D by AWPs failure to telephone as promised. Nevertheless, I
consider that the failure of AWP to telephone to clarify and confirm next steps will have
caused some additional unnecessary distress and worry in an already stressful situation.
Im also satisfied on a provisional basis that AWP took longer than was fair and reasonable
to follow up any necessary documentation which it required to pay the £500 contribution due
under the policy terms and conditions. I note that Mr D had needed to chase the matter. I
consider that this will also have caused additional distress and inconvenience for Mr D.
With regard to AWPs failure to address Mr Ds complaint in a timely manner, I note AWPs
apology and explanation. Im satisfied that AWPs apology was appropriate although I do
consider that it could have provided a better explanation of service delays during the claims
process itself.
In conclusion, and on a provisional basis, I consider that distress and inconvenience was
caused to Mr D by AWPs communication and service failures noted above. I dont consider
that this was just a one-off administrative error, where an apology alone would suffice. I
consider that the repeated poor communication and delay in paying the £500 contribution
would have had more than a minimal impact upon Mr D.
In the circumstances, I consider that AWP should make an increased compensation
payment of £300 to Mr D, less £50 if this amount has already been made by AWP.In my provisional decision, I asked both AWP and Mr D if they had any further comments or 
evidence that they wished me to consider before I made a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr D wished to provide any further information or make any further points following 
my provisional decision.
In all the circumstances, Ive concluded that the provisional decision provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to the matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ds complaint and require AWP P&C
SA to do the following: -
- To pay a total of £300 in compensation to Mr D for distress and inconvenience
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman