DRN-3126077
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs J complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) declined to 
quote for a home insurance policy for them.
  
What happened
Mr J and Mrs J received a letter from Lloyds inviting them to get a quote for home insurance. 
So, Mrs J phoned Lloyds to get a quote. She provided some basic details and the call 
handler then told her that it couldnt offer cover because she was outside of its acceptance 
criteria. The call handler was unable to provide any more information.
So, Mr J and Mrs J complained to Lloyds. When Lloyds replied, it said that when it 
considered an application it carried out checks to determine if it can offer cover. Its 
underwriters advised that the reason for decline was commercially sensitive, so it was 
unable to provide any more information.
When Mr J and Mrs J complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. He said Lloyds had provided the underwriting information and he was satisfied 
that Lloyds had fairly applied the criteria. Lloyds had also said that Mr J and Mrs J didnt 
need to declare this if they applied for insurance in the future.
As Mr J and Mrs J didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 4 October 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold this complaint in part. I said:
When Mrs J spoke to Lloyds it asked some basic questions related to the type of insurance 
required, whether there had been subsidence or similar issues, basic policyholder details 
and the property address. The call handler then told Mrs J that Lloyds was unable to provide 
cover and the application didnt proceed any further.
The call handler told Mrs J he didnt know the specific reason why it couldnt provide cover 
but provided some examples of what this might mean, such as the flood risk at the property, 
it being a new build or the propertys value being above its acceptance criteria. When Mr J 
and Mrs J complained, Lloyds said it was unable to provide further details because it was 
commercially sensitive.
As Lloyds has said, underwriting criteria is commercially sensitive. This service therefore 
wouldnt normally ask an insurer to provide this information to consumers. However, we 
would usually ask an insurer to provide the specific information to our service so we can look 
at whether the decision has been made correctly. In this instance, Lloyds provided the 
underwriting criteria and how this applied in Mr J and Mrs Js case. Having looked at this, Im 
satisfied that it applied this correctly and Ive seen nothing to suggest it treated Mr J and Mrs 
J differently than any other customer. 
Im aware that Mr J and Mrs J have said its unfair that they cant be told the reason and that 
they think we are siding with the insurer by not providing the information. However, its a 
business decision who Lloyds chooses to insure and we cant require it to provide this 
information to consumers. 
When Lloyds summarised Mr J and Mrs Js complaint it included a quote from Mrs J that 
said: I'm very upset and concerned that you cant offer us a quote. I havent seen 
anything that suggests Lloyds actually looked at what those specific concerns were. Mrs J 
explained to this service that if they applied for insurance in the future they thought they 
should declare that Lloyds had refused to insure them, but they would also need to provide a 
reason, which they were unable to do. Mr J and Mrs J were concerned that they would be 
lying by not declaring what had happened with Lloyds. 
While the complaint was with this service, Lloyds said to one of our investigators:
I would also like to confirm, due to the reason the quote was declined, [Mrs J] would not 
need to disclosure that she had been declined insurance with Lloyds on this occasion. (As 
original)
In my view, this was information that Lloyds should have told Mr J and Mrs J directly. I asked 
Lloyds whether it would write to Mr J and Mrs J to confirm to them that they didnt need to 
declare they had been declined for insurance and why that was the case. This was because 
there appeared to be a disconnect between Lloyds perception of the issue and Mr J and Mrs 
Js understanding of what had happened. I think Lloyds was best placed to provide that 
clarity and to reduce Mr J and Mrs Js concerns. However, Lloyds declined to do so.
When Lloyds declined my request to write to Mr J and Mrs J it said:
We didnt refuse the home insurance quote because the customer answered non-standard 
to the application questions, but purely because the postcode and answers provided  
would not allow the customer service advisor to proceed through the system. Therefore no 
application was completed. On this occasion the business exercised its right not to provide a 
quotation for insurance.
In my view, this is an important explanation that Lloyds could have given to Mr J and Mrs J. 
The system didnt allow the customer service advisor to go through the quote process and 
an insurance application therefore wasnt completed. Although it might seem obvious to 
Lloyds that there is a difference between this and being declined for insurance, I dont think 
this would be an easy distinction for a consumer to make, including where they want to 
answer questions openly and honestly for any future insurance applications.
So, I think Lloyds should pay Mr J and Mrs J some compensation. When Mrs J spoke to 
Lloyds to get a quote, I think she was shocked at the response. But, as Ive already said, 
Lloyds was entitled to decide who it would offer insurance to. However, I think Lloyds then 
didnt take any steps to try and understand what Mr J and Mrs Js concerns were or to 
respond to these. I think that left Mr J and Mrs J in a difficult position that Lloyds could have 
taken steps to address. As a result, I currently intend to say that Lloyds should pay £100 
compensation.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 3 November 2021.
Lloyds agreed it could have done more to address Mr J and Mrs Js concerns in relation to 
declaring the quote to future insurers and agreed to pay £100 compensation.
Mr J and Mrs J said they remained uncomfortable that they still didnt know the reason for 
declining the application for insurance. They said that although they were now being told they could tick no on future insurance applications, they still couldnt lie when asked about 
this on an official application form. Mr J and Mrs J said all they wanted to know was why they 
had been declined for insurance.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that Ive carefully considered Mr J and Mrs Js further 
comments. I accept that they are still concerned about future insurance applications. But, as 
I explained in my provisional decision, Lloyds has confirmed that what happened with the 
quote doesnt need to be declared.  Mrs J didnt go through the quote process as Lloyds 
systems wouldnt allow the customer service advisor to proceed. Having reviewed again 
what happened in this case, in my view, I have provided all of the information I am able to in 
relation to this complaint.
  
Putting things right
Lloyds must pay Mr J and Mrs J £100 compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint in part. I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to pay Mr J 
and Mrs J £100 compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman