DRN-3597103
The complaint
Mr H complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP).
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited is responsible for answering this complaint 
and so to keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to Niche.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Hs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement. 
Mr H was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do, so he contacted 
independent financial adviser Niche for advice in August 2017. 
Niche gathered information about his circumstances and objectives which were broadly as 
follows:
Mr H was 46 years old, married and with one dependent child. He was in good 
health.
He lived in a home valued at approximately £150,000, owned jointly with his wife 
which had an outstanding mortgage of around £64,000. The mortgage had around 8 
years left to run. 
Mrs H worked part-time. Together they had a joint income of £2,900 (net) per month 
and £10,000 in savings. 
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Hs BSPS was approximately 
£291,069 and the normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. 
Mr H had expressed an aspiration of retiring at the age of 60.
Niche set out its advice in a suitability letter on 13 October 2017. The letter said that on the 
basis of the financial comparisons alone, it didnt recommend Mr H should transfer out of his 
DB scheme. However, it went on to say that, as Mr H had said he wanted to use his pension 
in what it called an entirely different manner, it advised him to transfer out and invest the 
funds in a SIPP. Niche said this would allow Mr H to achieve his objectives.
Mr H accepted this advice and so transferred from the BSPS to a SIPP. In 2021 Mr H 
complained to Niche about its advice, saying he shouldnt have been advised to transfer out 
of the BSPS. In response, Niche said it hadnt done anything wrong and was acting on the 
financial objectives Mr H had at the time. 
Mr H referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it should be upheld. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Niche's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, Niche should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Hs best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
was in Mr Hs best interests. And I dont think it was, so Im upholding his complaint.
Financial viability 
As required by the regulator, to demonstrate the financial comparisons between his current 
scheme and transferring out to a personal pension, Niche referred in its transfer analysis to 
critical yield rates.  
The critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required 
on the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity 
income as the DB scheme. It is therefore part of a range of different things which help show 
how likely it is that a personal pension could achieve the necessary investment growth for a 
transfer-out to become financially viable. In Mr Hs case, Niche provided two transfer 
analysis documents based on comparisons. There are only very minor differences in the 
analysis contained in the two versions, so Ive used the one dated 13 October 2017, the 
same one our investigator used. This said the critical yield required to match his benefits at the age of 65 was 6.33% if he took a full pension and 7.62% if he took a full pension at the 
age of 60.
The critical yields identified were based on Mr Hs existing scheme benefits - and he didnt 
have the option to remain in the BSPS  he either needed to opt into the BSPS2 or move 
with the scheme to the PPF. But Niches advice was provided on 13 October 2017, by which 
time details of the new scheme were emerging (and briefly referred to in the suitability letter 
Niche produced for Mr H). Of course, its possible this scheme may not have gone ahead, 
but I still think the benefits available to Mr H through the BSPS2 should have been factored 
in with this advice so that he was able to make an informed decision. 
Nevertheless, in my view, this issue is something of a moot point in this case because from a 
financial comparison perspective, theres no real dispute between the parties that Mr H 
would probably receive lower overall retirement benefits as a result of transferring out to a 
SIPP. Niche itself outlined the likely lower retirement benefits in its own suitability letter. It 
pointed out to Mr H, for example, that, for the vast majority of members, yourself included, it 
will be more beneficial for you to transfer to [BSPS2]. And I think the situation as regards 
critical yield analysis would have been broadly similar in the case of the planned BSPS2; 
there would still be little point in Mr H giving up the guarantees and benefits available to him 
through a DB scheme only to achieve a lower level of benefits in a SIPP. 
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, Niche also made mention of the PPF, which it described 
as a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when the 
sponsoring employer becomes insolvent. It said the critical yield to match the benefits 
available through the PPF at age 65 was 4.36% per year if Mr H took a full pension under 
the reduced terms of the PPF, and 5.83% at the age of 60.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rates closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 4.5% per year for 18 years to retirement, which is well below the main critical yield 
figure of 6.33% Ive referred to above. The discount rate at age 60, it was 4.1% for 13 years 
to retirement. Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate was 8%, the 
middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. At the time, as Niche 
assessed Mr Hs attitude to risk (ATR) as moderately cautious I think a figure at the lower 
end of these projections was most relevant. 
Ive noted that Niche also said that in order to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of 
equal value to the existing scheme at retirement at age 65, the funds required would be 
around £794,000. So, all these things, in my view, provide a powerful indication of the real 
value of the benefits Mr H would lose if he transferred out to a SIPP.
So, I think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, Niches figures, shown 
in its suitability letter and transfer analysis documents, clearly showed that transferring to a 
personal pension plan would mean Mr H would receive lower pension benefits in the longer 
term, when compared against the BSPS. This was supported by Niches own statements in 
the suitability letter, which Ive referred to above. And I think its safe to say the same can be 
said broadly of the BSPS2 scheme, although we dont have corresponding analysis here to 
show it. Of course, to be clear, Niches recommendation that he should transfer out to a SIPP was 
not based on the financial comparisons with his current scheme. Rather, Niche said Mr H 
had entirely different reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought about all the other 
considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for him, despite providing the 
overall lower benefits mentioned above. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
As Ive said, although the suitability letter initially said that transferring wasnt recommended 
if being considered only on financial comparison grounds, Niche still recommended a 
transfer out nonetheless, based on what it said were Mr Hs objectives. It listed these in the 
letter and I summarise them below as follows:
It would allow him to retire at the age of 60. 
Transferring out to a personal pension would allow Mr H to have complete control 
over his pension funds, how they were invested, and the level of income he could 
withdraw from the age of 55. Niche said hed be able to use the money for holidays 
and / or to support his daughter through university.
Niche said there were likely increased death benefits for his wife and daughter, by 
transferring out.
So, it seems the main reasons that Niche recommended the transfer was for the flexibility 
and control it offered to Mr H. I have therefore considered all these issues with great care, 
beginning with Mr Hs apparent desire to retire at the age of 60. 
Retiring early 
I dont doubt that Mr H might have genuinely hoped to retire at the age of 60 and I appreciate 
Niches comments about manual workers sometimes needing to retire early. But Ive seen 
nothing that shows this was anything more than something Mr H aspired to do at that stage, 
as opposed to being part of a formulated plan. I say this because Mr H was only 46 years old 
and from what Ive seen, he had no concrete plans for retirement at that point. Ive also 
noted that Mr H could have retired early as a member of the BSPS2 and the PPF.
So, even if I were to consider that Mr Hs retirement plans were more advanced than the 
mere aspirations set out by Niche - and he really did want to retire early - I think Niche 
should have assessed the possibility of achieving this goal whilst being a member of BSPS2 
or the PPF. Its clear that in these circumstances there would have been an actuarial 
reduction caused by early retirement from the scheme. This would have meant Mr Hs 
pension benefits would have been somewhat reduced due to him accessing the pension 
earlier and for longer. But Ive seen no evidence this was discussed with a view to assessing 
whether it was more in Mr Hs best interests, rather than him being advised to transfer away 
completely.
Flexibility 
In its suitability letter, Niche said that by transferring out and having a SIPP, Mr H would be 
able to increase the amount of tax-free cash hed be able to access. It set out the values 
hed be able to get with the BSPS versus a SIPP.Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can be accessed from a SIPP when compared 
against a DB scheme; this is because the values and benefits of the two schemes are 
calculated differently. But Niche should have been telling Mr H at the time that extra tax-free 
lump sums being removed from a SIPP from the age of 55 onwards also came with 
consequences in that the amount left for his later retirement years would obviously 
decrease. 
Ive seen no compelling evidence showing access to a lump-sum at 55 years old was 
necessary or required for other specific reasons. Niche implied Mr H might wish to draw 
funds from the age of 55 to spend on holidays, and it also said hed be able to support his 
daughter through university. 
However, the same issues as Ive described above apply; using pension savings to spend 
on holidays comes with obvious costs  and the main purpose of a pension is to provide an 
income in retirement. Ive also noted that Mr Hs daughter was only 9 years old at the time, 
so making an irreversible decision about transferring out of a DB pension to help fund a 
university education was, in my view, somewhat premature.
In any event, Mr and Mrs H seem to have had access both to moderate and available 
savings, and a significant monthly disposable income. The fact-find completed by Niche 
showed they had several hundred pounds of difference between their joint monthly incomes 
and expenditures, so I think either of the above apparent objectives could have been met 
from their existing financial resources. In short, Niche demonstrated no need whatsoever for 
Mr H to transfer away from a DB pension, based solely on these reasons.
So, whilst I accept the notion of accessing tax-free cash earlier than his NRA might have 
been appealing, this needed to be considered against the other options Mr H faced, 
including opting for the BSPS2. 
Also, I cant see that Mr H required flexibility in retirement in the way Niche implied. Niche 
said in its transfer analysis that Mr Hs estimated annual pension upon his NRA was 
£18,353. This was guaranteed and index linked and I think it fitted Mr Hs needs. And even 
with actuarial reductions, his BSPS pension at the age of 60 was £13,182. I dont know the 
income Mr H wouldve been entitled to under the BSPS2, but based on what I know about 
the scheme, the starting pensions at age 65 and 60 wouldnt have been significantly lower. 
The PPF benefits also were not substantially lower, and in fact, at age 60 it was more or less 
the same. So, I think Mr H couldve met his needs if he opted into the BSPS2 or he moved to 
the PPF.
When discussing his circumstances with Niche, Mr H had speculated that in retirement he 
might actually need less income than the DB pension figure above. So overall, I havent 
seen anything to persuade me that Mr H wouldnt have been able to meet his retirement 
income needs by accessing his DB pension instead, particularly as he had also recently 
joined his employers new defined contribution (DC) scheme and would have been making 
contributions to it for at least another 13 years until he retired. It seems to me that in the 
event of any shortfalls in Mr Hs income needs between the age of 60 and his state 
retirement age, could have been met by drawing on this second pension.
I have therefore considered everything Niche said in its suitability letter about flexibility: it 
said this would include how funds were invested, the level of income he could withdraw from 
the age of 55 and a greater ability to flexibly use the tax-free lump sum element. It also said 
that Mr H would be able to have complete control over the pension if he transferred out. 
However, Ive seen nothing which shows Mr H had either the desire or capacity to exercise 
personal control over his pension. In my view, Mr Hs circumstances were much more aligned to him retiring from a DB scheme, such as the BSPS2, and drawing a pension. So, I 
think the suitable option was for him to access his DB pension in the way it was originally 
intended. His DC pension could have supported some of his other aspirations for flexibility if 
ever needed.
Death benefits 
Niche says that death benefits were discussed at the time and that Mr H didnt like those 
associated with his existing BSPS. However, its not clear on what basis Mr H apparently 
held such a view, and so this was, in my view, a demonstration of Niches failure to clearly 
explain the value of the death benefits he already enjoyed through the BSPS (and which 
would be broadly replicated in BSPS2).
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a SIPP was likely an attractive feature to Mr H. But whilst I appreciate death benefits 
are important to consumers, and Mr H might have thought it was a good idea to transfer his 
DB scheme to a SIPP because of this, the priority here was to advise him about what was 
best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in 
retirement. And I dont think Niche explored to what extent Mr H was prepared to accept a 
lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
Ive noted that at the time of the suitability letter, both Mr and Mrs H were described as being 
in good health. Mrs H was also only 46 years old. I also think the death benefits attached to 
the DB scheme were underplayed. The spouses pension provided by the DB scheme would 
have been useful to Mrs H if Mr H predeceased her and I dont think Niche made the value 
of this benefit clear enough. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a SIPP was. And there 
may not have been a large sum left particularly if Mr H lived a long life. In any event, Niche 
should not have encouraged Mr H to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through 
a SIPP over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, it doesnt appear that Niche took into account the fact that Mr H could have 
nominated Mrs H as the beneficiary of any funds remaining in his DC scheme. To this end, 
Mr H could have ensured part of his pension wouldnt just die with him.
I cant see whether, or the extent to which, life insurance was discussed in this case. But at 
around 46 years old, this may have been a reasonably affordable product if Mr H really did 
want to leave a legacy for his loved ones. Mrs Hs circumstances dont seem to have 
featured much in the overall advice Mr H was given by Niche, but the evidence is suggestive 
of her having a small pension of her own.
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
SIPP justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr H. I think this objective, listed 
briefly as it was in the suitability letter, was no more than a generic comment and not 
meaningful to Mr Hs situation.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr H, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he 
was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. Hed heard negative things about the PPF 
and Niche said he said he preferred to have control over his pension fund. So, its quite possible that Mr H was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was Niches obligation to give Mr H an objective picture and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were emerging and it seemed 
likely it was going ahead. So, the advice should have properly taken the likely benefits 
available to Mr H through the BSPS2 into account and I think this should have alleviated any 
concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Niche 
should have reassured Mr H that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr H through the PPF would have still provided a 
significant portion of the income he thought he needed at retirement, and he was still unlikely 
to be able to exceed this by transferring out. And although the increases in payment in the 
PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. 
So, I dont think that these concerns should have led to Niches recommendation to Mr H to 
transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a SIPP would have sounded like attractive features to Mr H. But Niche wasnt there 
to just transact what Mr H might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr H needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr H was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2 (or the PPF). By transferring 
to a SIPP, the evidence shows Mr H was likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And I 
dont think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and 
outweigh this. I dont think aspirations for holidays in the future or paying for his young 
daughters potential university education justified the recommendation; Niche ought to have 
advised him against transferring out of his DB scheme for these reasons, particularly as it 
meant hed be worse off in retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Hs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a SIPP 
when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been fully confirmed when the advice was given, but I 
think it was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. Mr H still had a minimum 
of 13 years before he hoped to retire. But this might have been longer as in my view he 
couldnt yet know what his needs in retirement would be. So, I don't think that it would have 
been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme 
entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early 
retirement. By opting into the BSPS2, Mr H would have retained the ability to transfer out of 
the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. Also, Mr H was married and had a 
young daughter. His wifes pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, 
and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr H chose to do 
so). His daughter may have also been financially supported by the scheme for many more 
years if something unexpected had happened to Mr H.  
On this basis, I think Niche should have advised Mr H to opt into the BSPS2.I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr H would have 
transferred to a SIPP or other type of personal pension in any event. I accept that Niche 
disclosed some of the risks of transferring to Mr H, and provided him with a significant 
amount of information. But ultimately it advised Mr H to transfer out, and I think Mr H relied 
on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr H would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against Niches advice. I say this because Mr H was an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for most of his retirement provision at the time. So, if Niche had provided 
him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in 
his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Hs concerns about the PPF were so great that he would 
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. So if Niche had explained Mr H was also unlikely to exceed the benefits 
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet his income 
needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have carried 
significant weight.
In light of the above, I think Niche should compensate Mr H for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr H whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance /rules to be published. 
We were told he would like to wait for the outcome of the consultation before the complaint is 
settled. I consider its fair that Niche waits for the outcome of the consultation to settle this 
complaint.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Niche to put Mr H, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
transferred to BSPS2. The basic objective of the proposed amendments to the redress methodology still remains to 
put a consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had 
advised them to remain in the DB scheme. Having reviewed the FCAs consultation and its 
proposed updates to the DB transfer redress methodology, Im satisfied that the proposed 
changes will, if ultimately implemented, still reflect a fair way to compensate Mr H.
I therefore dont consider it necessary for me to wait for any new guidance /rules to come 
into effect to determine this complaint. 
Niche must undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated methodology as soon as 
any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay any due 
compensation now in line with FG17/9).  
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance/rules come into effect
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr H within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and Niche has 
received notification of Mr H acceptance of my decision. Further interest must be added to 
the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date any changes to 
DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect to the date of settlement for any 
time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Niche to pay Mr H.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Niche deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr H how much has been taken off. Niche should give him a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
In addition Niche should pay Mr H £300 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused him. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: Ive decided to uphold this complaint and require Niche 
Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in 
the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr H any interest on that amount in full, 
as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Niche 
Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr H any interest as set out above on the 
sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited pays Mr H the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr H.
If Mr H accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Niche Independent 
Financial Advisers Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman