DRN-3322958
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with Society of Lloyds decision to decline his claim.
Mr B has brought his complaint through a third-party representative, however, Ill refer to all 
submission as being made by him personally for simplicity.  
What happened
Mr B had a personal accident insurance policy with Lloyds. Mr B is a professional 
sportsman, thats to say that he is paid to compete on a professional level. Whilst competing, 
he was injured in March 2016. Mr B sustained fractures to his fibula and tibia and required 
surgery the following day and later in October 2016. Mr B was well enough to return to his 
profession 11 months later in February 2017, although, it was noted that his injuries had 
impacted his ability to play at the elite level he had previously. Mr B continued to play 
professionally for a further three years and 11 months, albeit for clubs that he considered to 
be at a lower level than hed played previously. 
Mr B claimed on his accident policy as ultimately after visiting his orthopaedic surgeon on 13 
February 2020. It was recommended he should no longer play at a professional level owing 
to the injuries he sustained back in March 2016. Mr B would like for his claim to be paid. 
Lloyds said that Mr B didnt meet the criteria set out by the policy and so it declined his 
claim. It explained that the definitions of permanent and total disablement were not met, nor 
the bodily injury term. It maintained its declinature saying that it hadnt declined Mr Bs claim 
unfairly. 
Our investigator, whilst sympathetic to Mr B, agreed with Lloyds. She said that because Mr B 
was able to return to his profession within 12 months, he didnt satisfy the policy terms. She 
also highlighted that Mr B continued to compete professionally for several years before 
succumbing to his injuries. She was also not persuaded by Mr Bs arguments about having 
to compete in lower level competitions because she said it still demonstrated that Mr B 
wasnt permanently or totally disabled, as describe by the policy. 
Mr B, unhappy with this, requested an ombudsman consider his complaint. And so, its for 
me to make a final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it and for similar reasons already explained by 
our investigator. Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Lloyds 
has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim 
unreasonably. The policy Mr B has simply isnt designed to provide cover in the way he 
expected. Im not disputing the level of injury Mr B sustained back in 2016, but the accident 
policy has clear terms which Mr B needed to satisfy and hasnt. Therefore, I think Lloyds 
declined his claim fairly. Ill explain why.
The policy terms say;
Definitions
3. Bodily Injury
The term Bodily Injury means identifiable physical injury which is caused by a Accident
and solely and independently of any other cause (except Illness directly resulting from a
medical or surgical treatment rendered necessary by such Bodily Injury) results in Your
death or disablement within twelve months from the date of the Accident.
6. Permanent Total Disablement
The term Permanent Total Disablement and Permanently Totally Disabled means
disablement arising from Bodily Injury or Illness that entirely prevents You from engaging
in Your usual occupation as stated in Item 8 of the Schedule of Insurance and which either
lasts for at least one year and then be without prospect of improvement, or is as and when
We determine that You are Permanently Totally Disabled, whichever happens first
The problem here for Mr B is that he was able to return to his usual occupation within the 12 
months specified by the policy. And so, he hasnt satisfied that term. In addition, he 
continued to compete professionally for several years after the accident  meaning that the 
bodily injury didnt result in his disablement within 12 months from the date of the accident. 
It's for these reasons Im satisfied that Lloyds rejected his claim fairly, because it did so in 
line with the policy terms. Its for Mr B to show that he was unable to compete professionally 
within 12 months of the accident, but for the reasons Ive just explained, that didnt happen 
and so his claim was rejected fairly. 
Ive considered Mr Bs comments about playing for lower-level teams, but Im not persuaded 
it makes any difference. I say that because the policy doesnt include anything that would 
lead me to decide in his favour here either. It simply says that the injury must prevent him 
from engaging in his usual occupation, which it didnt, and so whether he competed in 
higher, or lower-level competitions is irrelevant for the purposes of this final decision. 
I also want to acknowledge the specialists report on 13 February 2020 which stated;
He is four years post fracture tib and fib with a super patellar intermedullary tibial nail.
It is four years down the line and he has failed to recover despite putting in intensive efforts
with three separate clubs. I do not really see him getting back to professional sport and I 
think this is directly attributable to his tibial fracture. 
The reason I want to highlight this piece of evidence is because I think it successfully shows 
that Mr B was eventually unable to compete professionally owing to the accident in 2016. 
And I understand the connection Mr Bs making here, which is that the injury has, eventually, 
caused the problem preventing him from playing at a professional level. But that doesnt 
mean the policy should automatically pay out on his claim. And I say that because the policy 
isnt designed to provide cover in those circumstances. 
 
I think Mr B may be overlooking that point, but I must make clear that this policy is specific 
about the terms that must be met before itll consider paying a claim. Those terms are listed 
above and so I wont repeat them here, but theres nothing within the terms that says Mr B 
would have a successful claim even if he succumbed to his injuries over a period of time 
following failed rehabilitation attempts. And so, for the reasons Ive explained, Lloyds hasnt made a mistake in declining his claim, nor has it declined the claim unfairly. So theres 
nothing more I can reasonably add in respect of this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman