DRN-3664850
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) hasnt reimbursed her in full after 
she was the victim of a scam.
What happened
In late 2021 Miss A was contacted unexpectedly by a scammer on social media who it 
seems claimed they invested in crypto currency. They told her if she sent them money they 
would trade this and return a significant profit to her. In order to convince her, they put her in 
touch with another person, who was unknown to her, who confirmed the scammer had made 
significant profits for them.
The scammer then convinced Miss A to involve her friends and persuade them to send him 
money. She said he claimed he was a personal shopper and had access to designer clothes 
and accessories they could purchase for a significant discount.
Miss A initially tried to make a payment of £5,000 to the scammer on 3 October 2021 but this 
payment was blocked by Santander. It spoke to Miss A and according to its records she 
explained the payment was to a friend so it allowed the payment to be made.
Miss A paid the scammer £5,000 on 4 October 2021 and £6,000 on 5 October 2021. When 
the scammer didnt provide her and her friends with the returns as she expected she 
confronted him and it appears he tried to reassure her the money would be coming soon, but 
ultimately she realised the situation was a scam. 
She originally contacted Santander to report the matter on 26 October 2021 but withdrew the 
claim shortly afterwards. Shes since explained this is because the scammer was threatening 
to harm themselves and said they were still trying to return the money to her. When it 
became clear the situation hadnt changed she raised the scam again in November 2021 
and said shed like to reopen the claim.
Santander doesnt appear to have taken any action at that point. Miss A contacted it for an 
update in December 2021 at which point the scam claim was correctly raised and it looked 
into things. 
Miss A was unhappy with this and brought the complaint to our service and Santander 
ultimately agreed it ought to have done more but didnt feel it was fully liable for the loss. It 
reimbursed Miss A 50% of her loss. Miss A didnt accept this and our investigator looked into 
things but felt a 50% reimbursement was fair in the circumstances. As Miss A didnt accept 
this the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has signed up to, and agreed to adhere to, the provisions of the Lending 
Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams 
like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. It is for Santander to establish that a 
customer failed to meet a reasonable level of care under one or more of the listed 
exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Santander has accepted it didnt do everything it needed to under the code when Miss A 
made the payments to scammers and has agreed it should be liable for 50% of her loss. But, 
it feels Miss A shares liability for her loss. The exception its relied upon is;
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
In addition to its obligations under the CRM code, taking into account the law, regulators 
rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time, Santander should fairly and reasonably have measures in place 
to look for and identify transactions that are significantly unusual, out of character or 
otherwise might indicate someone had been the victim of a scam. And, where it reasonably 
ought to have identified such a transaction, it might be appropriate for it to carry out further 
checks to satisfy itself its customer isnt at risk.
It's clear Santander has these measures in place as it identified the first payment Miss A 
made to scammers as unusual. It stopped the payment and spoke to her about this before it 
allowed it to be made. It no longer has the recording of this call and its records suggest she 
said the payment was to a friend. I wouldve expected Santander to have tested what Miss A 
was saying sufficiently to try and get to the bottom of what the payment was for. I say this 
because it does have an obligation to satisfy itself its customer is not at risk. Its already 
acknowledged it didnt do enough here, and I think on balance if it had questioned Miss A 
sufficiently it likely wouldve uncovered the scam and prevented the payments to the 
scammer being made. 
But, I agree that overall, Miss A didnt have a reasonable basis for believing what the 
scammers told her. I dont think she acted with a reasonable level of care in sending the 
money she did. 
Miss A was approached by someone on a social media app she didnt know. They appear to 
have told her they could flip her money. They seem to have told her they were trading 
crypto currency and could take her money and return a profit to her within a few weeks. Its 
not clear the exact nature of the trading they were involved in, in what capacity they did this 
or why they offered this service to people they contacted out of the blue online. Its not clear 
to me why she thought they would contact strangers to offer this service, or why she thought 
they were acting as an informal investment advisor for strangers they contacted online.
Weve asked Miss A for evidence of all her conversations with the scammer and shes 
provided correspondence between them after shed uncovered the scam but nothing from 
when she first started speaking with the scammer. Its not clear how much detail the 
scammer provided about what they were doing other than they were at some point trading 
crypto currency. So its not clear what she understood about how they were making high 
profits in short spaces of time or what they told her that persuaded her this was plausible or 
genuine.Miss A has said a large basis for her belief was how convincing the scammer was. And I 
accept that the scammer likely did sound convincing and probably could skilfully persuade 
her to send them money. This is a common factor in scams. But I think its reasonable to 
expect that an individual should try and verify or check what theyre being told by someone 
they dont know before sending large amounts of money to them, however convincing they 
may seem. 
I think it ought to have concerned Miss A that she was being contacted out of the blue by 
someone offering to make her large amounts of money within short time frames. I think it 
wouldve been clear to a reasonable person that there wasnt really a way to verify what this 
person was telling them and that sending thousands of pounds was a significant risk. 
Miss A doesnt appear to have taken any steps to try and check the situation wasnt a scam. 
For example by seeking advice from a reliable source like the financial regulator, her bank, 
or any kind of fraud or scam resource. From what I can see, the social media platform she 
was using itself provides resources and information about the prevalence of scams on its 
platform, details the type of scam she fell victim to and advises its users not to send money 
to people they dont know. Its not clear why Miss A didnt try and look into things further 
before she started sending money, but had she tried to do so I think she likely wouldve 
come across information that suggested to her the situation was a scam.
I understand Miss A has said the scammer put her in touch with someone who told her the 
scammer had made them lots of money already and the situation was legitimate. But Miss A 
didnt know this person and had no way of verifying what they said or what they were saying 
was plausible. So its not clear to me why testimony from someone else she didnt know, that 
was arranged by the scammer, convinced her to proceed.
Shes mentioned as part of the scam the scammer also said they could sell her and her 
friends designer clothes at a significant discount. Its not clear if Miss A also thought she was 
buying the clothes or only her friends. Shes said the scammer showed her videos and 
pictures as well as a link to a website that showed these clothes. But again, Im not sure 
what persuaded Miss A this was genuine in the circumstances, why she or anyone would 
need to send the money to the scammer in order to access this or why she thought a 
stranger who contacted her unexpectedly wanted to provide this service to her and her 
friends. But in any event, the issue remains that she hadnt been able to verify this person 
was genuine in what they were saying. So I think it was an unreasonable risk to send them 
money based on their word alone when there were so many concerning factors throughout.
Overall, based on the information Miss A has provided I dont think she had a reasonable 
basis for believing the situation was legitimate. Whilst Im sorry shes been the victim of a 
scam and I accept she may have genuinely believed what the scammer told her, given the 
circumstances shes described I dont think that was reasonable. She was of course entitled 
to take a risk with her money in sending it to someone online without any way of verifying 
what they told her. But when, as in this case, that risk ends in the loss of her money, it isnt 
reasonable to hold the bank entirely responsible for this. 
Overall, taking into account the CRM code and Santanders other obligations to Miss A, Im 
satisfied a reimbursement of 50% of her loss is appropriate as I think both parties share 
liability for the loss.
Have delays by Santander caused a loss?
Miss A first contacted Santander on 7 November 2021 to raise the fraud claim (although it 
had been previously raised on 26 October 2021 this was later withdrawn). Santander doesnt appear to have taken any action until December 2021. Miss A is understandably concerned 
this delay may have caused her a loss. Shes said had the bank acted sooner it mightve 
been able to successfully recover her money. But having considered this further Im satisfied 
this isnt the case.
Our service has contacted the receiving bank (where she sent her money) directly and it has 
confirmed the money Miss A sent to the scammer was removed from their account within a 
few days of receiving the payments, several weeks before she first reported the scam on 26 
October 2021. So even if Miss A hadnt withdrawn the initial claim she made with her bank, 
unfortunately it already wouldve been too late for the funds to be returned to her. Although 
Santander shouldve looked into Miss As concerns sooner than it did, I can see its delay 
didnt cause her any loss. 
Putting things right
After the complaint was brought to our service, Santander agreed to reimburse Miss A 
£5,500  50% of her loss. If it hasnt already paid this amount to Miss A it should do so now.
As it missed an opportunity to prevent the payments being made it should also pay her 8% 
interest on this amount from the date the payments were made until the date they were/are 
reimbursed to her.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Santander UK Plc to pay the redress outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman