DRN-3104284
The complaint
Mrs I is unhappy with the service she received from Al Rayan Bank PLC when attempting to
reset the security questions on her account.
What happened
Mrs I called Al Rayan as she wanted to update her address and discuss issues she was
having with online banking. Unfortunately, Mrs I wasnt able to pass Al Rayans security
protocol, and she was advised that she would need to reset her security answers in order to
be able to pass security. Mrs I was also advised that she could do this by either visiting
branch or in writing.
Mrs I no longer lived near an Al Rayan branch, so she sent a letter to Al Rayan. However,
this letter didnt include updated security answers and so Al Rayan werent able to update
these on her account. Mrs I contacted Al Rayan to clarify what was needed and asked for a
pre-paid envelope to be sent to her, but this envelope was sent to Mrs Is old address. Mrs I
was later able to reset her security answers, but she wasnt happy with what had taken
place, so she raised a complaint.
Al Rayan looked at Mrs Is complaint, but it felt that it had followed the correct processes and
so it didnt uphold Mrs Is complaint. Mrs I wasnt satisfied with Al Rayans response, so she
referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They listened to the telephone call where
Mrs I had failed security. While they agreed that Mrs I had failed security, they felt that the
requirements given to Mrs I for her to reset her security questions had been provided too
quickly for Mrs I to have reasonably understood or taken down, and so they recommended
that this complaint be upheld in Mrs Is favour and that Al Rayan should make a payment of
£50 to Mrs I to compensate her for what took place.
Al Rayan didnt agree with the recommendation put forward by our investigator, so the
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 1 October 2021 as follows:
I can understand how it must have been frustrating for Mrs I to have needed to 
update the security questions on her account but to have learned that the first letter 
that she sent to Al Rayan to do this didnt meet the necessary requirements.
In their review of this complaint, our investigator felt that Al Rayans agent had given 
the information about what was needed to reset her security questions to Mrs I too 
quickly for Mrs I to have reasonably understood and acted upon.
I can appreciate why our investigator felt this way, but having listened to the call 
myself, I havent reached the same conclusion as our investigator on this matter. 
Indeed, I feel that the fact that Mrs I needed to reset her security questions was given 
clearly to Mrs I by Al Rayans agent, and while the details of exactly what was 
needed to achieve this was provided relatively quickly, this information related to the 
personal verification information that Mrs I would need to provide, which was largely 
the same as Mrs I had been asked for by Al Rayans agent at the start of that 
telephone call.
I also note, having listened to the call, that Mrs I didnt indicate in any way that she 
didnt understand what was required of her in order to reset her security questions via 
letter, and its also evident that Al Rayans agent directed Mrs I to the relevant part of 
Al Rayans website where information about what was needed could be found.
Importantly, even though Mr I was clearly informed that she needed to reset her 
security questions to enable her to pass security and gain access to the account, the 
initial letter that Mrs I sent Al Rayan didnt include any new security question 
information to allow the security questions to be reset.
As such its difficult to see, even had Al Rayans agent given Mrs I the verification
information that she needed to include in the letter in a different fashion, that this 
would have led to a different outcome here, and I say this because the lack of new 
security question information in Mrs Is first letter would have necessitated Mrs I 
sending a second letter regardless of whether the full suite of personal verification 
information was included in the first letter by Mrs I or not.
Mrs I has also expressed her dissatisfaction that Al Rayan sent a pre-paid envelope 
to her old address. However, given that Mrs I was trying to update her address at the 
time that she had failed the security protocol  meaning that her old address 
remained on file  I can understand why the pre-paid envelope was sent to the old 
address, and I also dont feel that the sending of this particular item of mail had any 
significant impact on Mrs I such that any form of compensation is warranted in this 
instance.
Mrs I has stated that all she wanted from Al Rayan was for them to have confirmed 
her balance or advise whether the money that she was expecting had been received 
into her account. I can appreciate that it must have been frustrating for Mrs I not to be 
able to obtain this information. But given that shed failed security I cant reasonably 
say that Al Rayan did anything wrong by not providing this information to Mrs I until 
such time as Mrs I could pass security. Indeed, Id almost certainly consider it remiss 
of Al Rayan if they had provided this information to Mrs I before its security protocol 
had been passed.
Finally, Mrs I has stated that she had to make a number of calls to Al Rayan in order 
for this matter to be resolved, including asking Al Rayan staff to check their post 
room to see if her letter had been received. Again, while I appreciate Mrs Is 
frustrating at not being able to resolve this matter more quickly, I dont feel that Al 
Rayans processes were unduly long here, and I note that Mrs I was able to update 
her security questions and access her account following confirmation from Al Rayan 
of exactly what was required from her and Mrs I subsequently sending a second 
letter to Al Rayan.All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that Al Rayan have acted unfairly 
or unreasonably here, and it follows from this that my provisional decision will be that 
I do not uphold this complaint.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mrs I and Al Rayan the opportunity to provide 
any comments or further information that they might wish me to consider before I moved to a 
final decision. Al Rayan confirmed that they were happy to accept my provisional decision, 
whereas Mrs I did provide some comments for my consideration. And while I feel that some 
aspects of Mrs Is comments have already been addressed in my provisional decision letter, 
there are some aspects of Mrs Is comments that do merit further discussion here.
Mrs I has questioned why Al Rayan didnt have alternative systems and protocols in place to 
enable her to verify her identity, rather than her being asked to visit an Al-Rayan branch 
during a time where the Covid-19 pandemic meant that people were supposed to avoid 
leaving their homes. 
It isnt for this service to comment on how a business chooses to operate, but it must be 
noted that Al Rayan did have an alternative protocol in place for Mrs I here  that of resetting 
her security information via writing  and this was explained to Mrs I during her initial call to 
Al Rayan when she failed their security checks. And Mrs I did send a letter to Al Rayan in 
response to this, but because Mrs I didnt include the requisite updated security question 
information in her letter to Al Rayan, the bank couldnt then reset Mrs Is security questions 
as was required.
Mrs I has also commented that it took too long for her to regain access to her account. I can 
appreciate that this must have been upsetting for Mrs I, but I continue to feel that Al Rayan 
provided Mrs I with all the information needed for her to reset her security questions in 
writing and to therefore enable her to access her account at the earliest opportunity. 
However, as previously explained, the letter that Mrs I sent to Al Rayan in the first instance 
didnt include the information required by Al Rayan for them to do this, and as such I cant 
conclude that Al Rayan should be held accountable for the delays that Mrs I experienced.
Finally, Mrs I has expressed dissatisfaction that she had to incur the cost of certifying her 
identification documents and sending the letter to Al Rayan. Again, I can appreciate Mrs Is 
frustration here, but its only natural that a certain degree of cost and inconvenience is 
incurred when having to resolve issues like this in the manner that was required, and this 
service wouldnt expect Al Rayan to cover the costs that Mrs I refers to here. Rather, it would 
be expected that such costs would be borne by Mrs I.
All which means that, while I understand how not having access to her account for some 
time would have been upsetting for Mrs I, it remains the case that I dont feel that Al Rayan 
should be held accountable for the length of time that this matter took. And I say this 
because Im satisfied that Al Rayan did present Mrs I with a reasonable means to reset her 
security questions and regain access to her account in a timely manner, but that Mrs I didnt 
provide Al Rayan with the information necessary for that to take place.
All of which means that it remains my position that Al Rayan havent acted unfairly or 
unreasonably to Mrs I here, and it follows that my final decision will be a confirmation of that 
as outlined in my provisional decision  that I will not be upholding this complaint. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs I was wanting here, but I hope that she will 
understand, given what Ive explained above, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman