DRN-4215113
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc wrongly closed the bank account he used for his 
sole trader business, which I will call H.
What happened
Mr H told us:
In December 2022, Barclays closed Hs business account without first giving him any 
warning.
He only realised Hs account was closed when he tried to transfer money to it. He 
was shocked to discover the closure, and Barclays behaviour caused him significant 
stress.
To resolve the complaint, he would like Barclays to apologise and to reinstate his 
account.
Barclays told us:
During 2022 it carried out a Know Your Customer (KYC) review of Hs account. As 
part of that process, it wrote to Mr H asking him for information about his business.
Mr H did not respond to its requests for information, so on 20 September 2022 it sent 
Mr H a further letter giving him notice that it intended to close his business account.
Mr H still did not respond, so it closed his business account on 5 December 2022.
The account was overdrawn by a very small amount (less than £10), but the closure 
was purely because of Mr Hs failure to respond to its KYC review. The closure was 
not in any way related to the overdrawn balance, which it has since written off.
Overall, it is satisfied that it carried out its KYC process correctly, and so it does not 
believe Mr Hs complaint should be upheld.
One of our investigators recommended that Mr Hs complaint be upheld, but Barclays did not 
accept his conclusions. The complaint was therefore referred to me as an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 June 2023. I said:
Banks in the UK are strictly regulated, and must take certain actions in order to meet 
their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of new and existing relationships. That sometimes means  as in this 
case  that a bank chooses to carry out a KYC review.
In principle, I have no concerns about Barclays decision to carry out a KYC review of 
Mr Hs account. That means that in order to decide whether Barclays treated Mr H 
fairly, I need to consider how that review was carried out.
I think the key issue in this complaint is whether Barclays sent Mr H the letters it says 
it sent. Our investigator didnt think Barclays had written to Mr H, and so he 
concluded that Barclays was wrong to close Mr Hs account without giving him any 
notice. But I dont agree with our investigator. Having reviewed Barclays evidence, I 
think it is more likely than not that Barclays did write to Mr H requesting that he 
complete a KYC review, and that Barclays did give Mr H notice that it intended to 
close his account. I say that because:
Barclays has explained that it used a third party to send out the KYC letters; it 
didnt send them directly. It is common for banks like Barclays to ask third 
parties to carry out this sort of task, and I dont criticise it for doing so.
Barclays told us that its third party wrote to Mr H on 21 July 2022 and 25 
August 2022 asking him to provide KYC information, with a further letter on 
20 September 2022 explaining that it intended to close his account if he did 
not provide the requested information. It said that all of those letters were sent 
to the address it had on file for Mr H (which is the same address that he 
provided on our complaint form).
Barclays is not able to provide us with copies of the actual letters it sent to Mr 
H, but it can provide templates together with information about when and 
where those templates were sent. I am satisfied with Barclays evidence on 
that point
I acknowledge that evidence that a letter was sent is not evidence that that 
letter was received. I am aware that there were several Royal Mail strikes in 
late 2022, and it is possible that one or more of those strikes caused the 
letters to Mr H to be delayed. But I think it is very unlikely that all of the letters 
went permanently astray, and on balance I think it is much more likely than 
not that Mr H did receive them.
I also acknowledge that Mr H does not recall receiving any letters about the 
KYC process, but again that doesnt necessarily imply that the letters were 
not sent.
Mr H has asked how Barclays could close the account at all, given that it belonged to 
him and not Barclays. I consider that terms and conditions of the account allowed 
Barclays to close it. That is a very common feature of bank accounts in the UK, and 
the terms and conditions of the vast majority of bank accounts (if not all of them) 
include similar clauses setting out the circumstances in which the bank may choose 
to close an account.
Overall, I am satisfied that Barclays wrote several times to the address it had on file 
for Mr H but did not receive a response. Barclays therefore closed Hs account in line 
with the terms and conditions of that account. I consider that Barclays was entitled to 
close Mr Hs account, and I think it acted fairly in doing so.
I have also noted Mr Hs comment that the account closure means he is no longer 
able to find previous payments he made from Hs account. Whilst I dont think Barclays has done anything wrong, it is open to Mr H to ask Barclays for further 
details about past payments if he believes that information would be helpful to him. 
Mr H did not accept my provisional decision. He reiterated that he didnt receive any letters 
from Barclays warning him that his account would be closed, and he only found out after he 
made a phone call to Barclays. He said he finds the suggestion that he had letters 
unbelievable considering that Barclays cannot now provide those letters. He considers that 
before a final decision is issued, I should obtain copies of the actual letters sent by the third 
party and not rely on templates.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as I did in my provisional decision, for 
the same reasons. I now confirm those provisional conclusions as final.
Barclays has said that it cannot provide copies of the actual letters it sent to Mr H; it can only 
provide templates together with evidence as to the dates it sent those templates and the 
name and address it used. I acknowledge that Mr H is not satisfied with Barclays evidence, 
but I consider that it is sufficient. On balance, I am satisfied that Barclays did send the letters 
that it told us it sent  and therefore that Barclays closed Mr Hs account in line with the 
terms and conditions of that account. Overall, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for 
me to uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman