DRN-3013597
The complaint
Mr D, through his representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to him when it had 
not carried out enough checks on his financial situation before lending. 
What happened
Morses has provided us with information on some loans. The brief table below is taken from 
its records and it referred to them as loans 2 to 4. It said it had no information about loans 
issued more than six years before Mr D complained to it.
Mr D was asked if he had any information about any loans before the Morses labelled
loan 2. He said he did not and this Service was to proceed with the information we had.
Loan Start Date End Date Capital 
AmountInterest 
amountTerm Repayment 
amountWeeks 
Live
2 14/01/2016 07/07/2016 £300.00 £195.00 33 £15.00 25
3 07/07/2016 06/12/2016 £400.00 £260.00 33 £20.00 22
4 06/12/2016 18/04/2018 £600.00 £390.00 33 £30.00 71
Morses in its final response letter to Mr D, said that Your application history shows you 
declared you had an average income of £263.50, expenditure of £193.00 and a disposable 
income of £73.50, which was more than adequate to meet your repayments.
Mr D referred his complaint to this Service. Morses sent us some information. One of our 
adjudicators looked at the complaint and he did not think that Morses needed to put things 
right for Mr D. He thought that for these loans Morses had carried out proportionate checks.
Mr D disagreed and has sent to us a copy of his credit file which covered the period of 
lending. He says that Morses never checked his financial expenditure and whether he could 
afford the loans.
I issued a provisional decision on 27 October 2021 in which I thought that the complaint 
about loan 4 should be upheld. I gave both parties time to respond. That date has passed 
and so Ive issued my final decision. The provisional decision findings are duplicated (in 
smaller type-face to differentiate) in the next section.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer.
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable, but I dont think that this was the situation 
with Mr D in these circumstances.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that. My provisional findings dated 27 October 2021
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
As Morses has listed these loans as being the second, third and fourth in its lending relationship with 
Mr D then I have considered that as part of my review of the complaint. And I will refer to them as 
loans 2, 3 and 4 in order to dovetail with the loan table provided by Morses.
Loan 1
We have no information about loan 1 and Mr D has given a clear indication he is content for us to 
proceed on what we have. So, I make no findings about it.
Loans 2 and 3.
Morses has provided us with a spreadsheet which it calls its front sheet and it contains no 
information at all about loans 2 and 3 except what appears in the loan table earlier in this provisional 
decision. But in its FRL it does refer to there being an average weekly income figure of around £263 
and an average expenditure figure of £193. This suggests that it does have some information about 
the income and expenditure figures Mr D told to it for loans 2 and 3, in order to be able to work out the 
average figures. As this is a provisional decision then Morses has time to send me the details of the 
income and expenditure records for loans 2 and 3.
I do think that Mr D likely gave to Morses very similar figures to those which he gave for loan 4 and so 
proceeding on that basis then those would have been around £250 income a week and around £184 
on expenses made up of rent £78, utilities £41 and groceries £65.
But I have got copies of Mr Ds bank account statements and so I have reviewed those to see what 
his income and expenditure figures were around the times he took loans 2 and 3.
One set of bank statements are for an account and relate to dates which post-date these loans and so 
are irrelevant to this complaint.
Another set of bank statements relate to an account which looks to have been used like a savings 
account. There are very few entries each year and I have seen that from February to April 2016 Mr D 
did have some credit in there but not much. It was used up by April 2016.
The third set of bank statements I have do seem to be Mr Ds main account. I can see that his salary 
was paid into it and there were transactions and direct debits and a standing order. So, in the 
absence of information from Morses about Mr Ds income and expenditure then I have reviewed this 
set of statements to give me an idea what his situation was around November and December 2015 in 
the lead up to him applying for loan 2 in January 2016. I looked at the period from Mr Ds payday in 
November 2015 to December 2015.
Mr Ds income was £1,105 in November 2015 which does work out to be about £255 a week.
I have worked out that Mr Ds monthly expenditure was around £492 (excluding small cash 
withdrawals and food purchases). This was made up of direct debits for items such as a PC purchase, 
gym membership, a satellite TV company, and transactions such as bank fees/charges, petrol, council 
tax and utility bills and DVLA. There is a standing order for £192 which dovetails with Mr Ds credit file 
and so I think that was likely a HP agreement for a car.
On top of that I can see small purchases for food and theres a large cash withdrawal of £250. I can 
see that this seem t likely covered Mr Ds rent. But I am not clear about that.
Including that cash withdrawal (which I am assuming was for rent) then Mr Ds expenditure  meaning 
the type we would count towards regular expenditure  came to around £742. So that would have left 
Mr D with around £363 a month left. So overall I think its likely Morses would have come to the same 
conclusion it did when he applied for loan 2.Mr D needs to appreciate that the regulations did not require Morses to carry out a credit search and 
from what it has told us it did not look as though it did that. And I would not have expected Morses to 
have reviewed any copy bank statements for loans 2 and 3 as that would have been disproportionate. 
Ive looked at his bank statements for these loans to get an idea of what information Morses wouldve 
obtained had it done proportionate checks, such as asking Mr D about his income and expenditure.
The figures I gathered for loan 3 were similar to those identified for loan 2, and so I am planning not to 
uphold loans 2 and 3.
Loan 4
By the time Mr D had been repaying loan 3 for around 22 weeks (it was a 33 week loan term) he 
applied for a £600 loan in December 2016. He paid off loan 3 by using some of the money from 
loan 4. As the £600 for loan 4 was double the loan amount taken almost a year before and it would 
have been the fourth loan in the relationship Mr D had with Morses, I think it ought to have looked for 
more information about Mr Ds finances. The loan 4 repayments were going to be £30 a week which 
was double the amount he had been paying for loan 2.
For Loan 4, Morses has supplied to this Service the information Mr D had declared to it about his 
income and expenditure: £250 a week income and £184 a week for food, rent and utilities. According 
to the information it had then Mr D would have had around £66 a week left to repay it.
I think that by this stage it ought to have checked to see what else Mr D had by way of regular 
outgoings, other credit commitments and generally. I have reviewed the credit file Mr D has sent to us 
and I think that he had one HP agreement which I do think was his car at around £192 a month (over 
£44 a week). And he had another HP agreement which had commenced in July 2016, he had a credit 
commitment of 11 payments of £125 a month which had started in June 2014 and was not settled 
until April 2018 and so I anticipate Mr D was in arrears on that account. He had a short term loan 
which was old  and he may have been in arrears on that too. And he had a mail order account but 
I can see that was inactive.
And having reviewed Mr Ds bank statements for this period, and if I were to use the income and 
outgoings revealed on these statements, rather than the declared income and outgoing figures, my 
provisional decision would be the same. Mr Ds income had reduced to around £980 and he was 
repaying the second HP agreement and he was repaying friends for money he had borrowed from 
them.
So, I do think that loan 4 was unaffordable. And I think that Morses ought to have known this. So, I am 
planning to uphold Mr Ds complaint about loan 4, approved in December 2016.
How have both parties responded 
Mr D has not responded to my provisional decision. 
Morses received my provisional decision and has made no additional comments. 
So, some of the elements in my provisional decision which may have benefitted from 
clarification have not been addressed by either party. In the absence of anything further then 
I see no reason to depart from the provisional findings I came to last month and I repeat 
them here. They become part of this final determination. 
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Ds complaint for the loan approved in 
December 2016, loan 4. Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr D at loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr D may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct.
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr D in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr D would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options.
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Ds liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Morses ought to do as follows:
refund all interest and charges Mr D paid on loan 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year* on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative payment information about loan 4 from Mr Ds credit file;
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Morses to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint in part and direct Morses Club PLC to do 
as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman