DRN-4312990
The complaint
Miss S complains that Shop Direct Limited trading as Ace (Shop Direct) irresponsibly gave 
her a revolving credit account that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In June 2019, Miss Ss revolving credit account was opened by Shop Direct with an initial 
credit limit of £500. The credit limit was increased to £1,000 in December 2019, to £1,500 in 
June 2020, to £2,000 in January 2021 and to £3,000 in August 2021. 
On 22 December 2022, Miss S complained to Shop Direct to say that the account shouldnt 
have been opened because it wasnt affordable and that Shop Direct ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances before it provided her with credit. 
Shop Direct did not agree. Miss S brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought the lending on the account was reasonable initially but thought that 
Shop Direct ought not to have increased the credit limit in August 2021. Miss S agreed that 
outcome. Shop Direct didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website. After reviewing all of the information provided in this complaint, I intend to partially 
uphold Miss Ss complaint. I explain why below. 
Shop Direct needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss S 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate. 
But certain factors might point to the fact that Shop Direct should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include: 
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged indebtedness 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable). 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Our investigator set out in some detail why she thought the early credit limits were 
reasonable. As both parties have agreed to those findings, I will concentrate on whether 
Shop Direct should have provided Miss S with any additional credit in August 2021 and 
thereafter. Shop Direct said the credit limits it set were affordable for Miss S. Shop Direct 
told us it obtained credit reference data about Miss S at the time of the account opening and 
prior to each credit limit increase and that it took into consideration how the account was 
being managed. 
I have noted that Miss Ss management of her existing account had been largely good up to 
the January 2021 credit limit increase. I note that in the months between that and the August 
2021 increase to the credit limit there were a number of administrative charges which in this 
case denote late payments or breach of the credit limit. And there were three of those in the 
four months before Shop Direct chose to increase Miss Ss credit limit. 
So, I think that this pattern of Shop Directs lending history with Miss S should have put Shop 
Direct on notice that it might need to make more searching enquiries into Miss Ss financial 
circumstances before increasing her potential indebtedness further. 
And I have noted the credit checks that Shop Direct performed before the increase to the 
credit limit in August 2021. They showed a marked increase in the amount of other debt that 
Miss S had collected since the January increase. In July 2021 Miss Ss other debts had risen 
to over £9,000 which was triple the amount seen before the previous credit increase. And 
most of that had been accrued in the two months prior to the August increase. So, I think 
that the sheer size of the unsecured credit Miss S was already responsible for ought to have 
caused Shop Direct to question her ability to take on more credit, especially a relatively 
significant sum such as £3,000. 
So thinking about that and Miss Ss management of her account before the August credit 
limit increase, I think that at the very least any basic affordability checks ought to have 
prompted a more thorough enquiry of Miss Ss financial circumstances before Shop Direct 
agreed to lend. Had Shop Direct done more, which I consider they ought to have here, 
what would they have seen?
I cant be sure exactly what Shop Direct would have seen had their checks been more 
proportionate. But Ive considered the evidence Miss S has been able to provide. This 
includes her current account statements. Im not suggesting that Shop Direct needed to 
obtain these specific documents Miss S has now provided, but I think these give a good 
indication of at least what basic information Shop Direct would have been likely to have 
found out (or ought to have found out) about her income and existing credit commitments. 
These show that Miss Ss income was modest and inconstant. They also show that Miss 
Ss committed expenditure towards things like rent, food, bills, regular transfers, and travel 
was around the same amount as her income. I have considered this information in addition 
to the Shop Directs credit search that showed the sharp increase in Miss Ss indebtedness 
and Miss Ss most recent management of her account with Shop Direct. Having done so, I 
am persuaded that had Shop Direct conducted a more thorough investigation into Miss Ss 
circumstances, which I think it should have done, I fail to see how they could possibly have concluded anything other than the new credit they offered in August 2021 was 
unaffordable and unsustainable. 
I think that by August 2021, Shop Direct should have been on notice that putting up the 
credit limit any further was unsustainable as Miss S would not have been able to afford to 
repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner, most likely. 
So, I am persuaded that Shop Direct should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
likely unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, and it shouldnt have further increased Miss Ss 
credit limit in August 2017, the date of the last credit increase. It follows that I think that Miss 
S lost out because Shop Direct provided her with further credit from August 2017 onwards. 
In my view, Shop Directs actions unfairly prolonged Miss Ss indebtedness by allowing her 
to use credit she couldnt afford over an extended period of time and the interest being 
added would only have the effect of putting her into further debt. It follows that Shop Direct 
should put things right.
 
Putting things right
Rework Miss Ss accounts to ensure that from August 2021 onwards interest is only 
charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £2,000, including any buy now pay 
later interest, (being the credit limit in place before that date) to reflect the fact that no 
further credit limit increases should have been provided. All late payment and over 
limit fees should also be removed; 
and 
If an outstanding balance remains on the accounts once these adjustments have 
been made Shop Direct should contact Miss S to arrange an affordable repayment 
plan for these accounts. Once Miss S has repaid the outstanding balance, it should 
remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ss credit file from August 2021 
onwards for each account. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Miss S, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. Shop Direct 
should also remove any adverse information from Miss Ss credit file from August 
2021 onwards. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Shop Direct to take off tax from this interest. Shop Direct 
must give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Miss Ss complaint. Shop Direct should put 
things right in the way set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman