DRN-3991692
The complaint
Mr S complains that Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
In May 2021, Mr S applied for and received a loan of £4,000 from Shelby. It was to be repaid 
in 48 monthly instalments of £187.72 at an Annual Percentage Rate (APR) of 59.7%, so the 
total repayable was £9,010.56. Using the services of a claims management company 
(CMC), in March 2022, Mr S complained to Shelby saying he felt the loan was unaffordable 
and it had put him in more debt.
Shelby looked into his complaint. It said it had carried out its usual assessment checks 
including reviewing Mr Ss credit file and asking him about his income and expenditure. 
Ultimately it was satisfied that the loan had been affordable for Mr S at the time.
Mr S didnt accept what Shelby said and referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into it. Our investigator felt that Shelbys checks on Mr Ss application 
hadnt gone far enough. If it had done more, he said Shelby ought to have identified that 
Mr S wasnt in a position to take on a new credit commitment. He asked Shelby to put 
matters right for Mr S. Mr S agreed with our investigator, but Shelby didnt. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high-cost credit on our website  including 
the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered this 
approach when deciding this complaint.
 
Shelby needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that it didnt lend 
to Mr S irresponsibly. With that in mind, I think there are key questions I need to consider so 
I can decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint:
Did Shelby carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S 
was in a position to sustainably repay the loan?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time and 
did Shelby make a fair lending decision?
Did Shelby act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some other way?
Shelby had ensure Mr S would be able to repay the loan sustainably. Its not about Shelby 
assessing the likelihood of it being repaid, but it had to consider the impact of the loan 
repayments on him. There is no set list of checks that it had to do, but it could take into 
account several different things such as the amount and length of the loan, the amount of 
the monthly repayments and Mr Ss overall circumstances.
Did Shelby carry out reasonable and proportionate checks?
Shelby is correct to say it followed its usual process in assessing Mr Ss application for the 
loan. But its not just about following the process thats important, it must consider the 
information it finds to reach a fair decision. 
In this case, Shelby looked at Mr Ss credit file and it has provided evidence to us of what it 
found. Given the type of lender Shelby is, it would often expect to see defaults, County Court 
Judgments or repayment plan on a credit file; there were none for Mr S. But I think there 
were other signs which ought to have led it to ask further questions before agreeing to lend 
to him.
Mr S was asking for £4,000 for four years at a high rate of interest. If Mr Ss circumstances 
were as under control as Shelby appears to be suggesting when it says there were no 
adverse indications on his credit file, I expect hed have been able to obtain cheaper finance 
elsewhere. Looking closely at his credit file, I can see he had approximately £16,000 of 
credit already. That in itself may not be any particular concern, but Ive looked at the type of 
credit, how it was used and when it was taken.    
Mr S had six credit cards or similar facilities, all of which were running at or very slightly 
under the credit limits. Hed taken two of them within three months of this loan application 
and had used the combined limits of £1,100 almost immediately. He had a hire purchase 
agreement which hed taken within six months of this application for around £13,500. While 
he was up to date with his payments on all the agreements, his credit wasnt reducing at all. 
The five payments hed made to his HP agreement had in effect been paid by the two new 
facilities hed taken since. 
Mr S was asking for the £4,000 for vehicle repairs. There was no element of consolidation. 
So by agreeing the loan, Shelby was significantly increasing his indebtedness when his 
financial circumstances already appeared to be under strain.
I think Shelby ought to have recognised the difficult situation Mr S was getting in to and 
asked further questions so it could properly understand his financial circumstances. I dont 
think it was enough on this occasion to rely on electronic verification of money paid into his 
account and statistical averages for his expenditure. It follows that I dont think the checks it 
carried out were reasonable and proportionate. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time and did Shelby 
make a fair lending decision?
Ive already said there is no prescribed list of checks a lender should carry out. But in the 
circumstances Ive set out above, I think it would have been sensible for Shelby to have 
obtained further information from Mr S regarding his income and expenditure to ensure he 
could afford the loan. It may have done this by, for example, asking Mr S for copies of his 
bank statements which would show how he used his money and how much income he 
received.
Mr S has provided us with copies of his bank statements. I can see that he earned in the 
region of £1,500 a month  around £500 less than hed declared to Shelby (and it says it had 
verified electronically). He was regularly receiving money into his account from a short-term 
lender which may have been what caused the discrepancy in the income levels Shelby could 
see compared to his earned income. Furthermore, he was regularly gambling and going 
overdrawn on his current account. From the evidence Ive seen and described above, I think Mr S had started to get into 
financial difficulties. Given Mr S had recently taken on significant levels of credit and 
appeared to be getting into financial difficulties  this loan was only going to make things 
worse for him. I think Shelby ought to have recognised this situation and refused to lend to 
him. It follows that I dont think Shelby reached a fair decision to lend to Mr S. 
Did Shelby act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some other way?
Ive carefully read, listened to and thought about all the evidence provided by each party to 
this complaint. Having done so, I dont think Shelby has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr S in some other way.
But I do think Shelby should have refused to lend to Mr S, so I am upholding his complaint 
about the loan.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business to 
put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the mistake it made hadnt 
happened, as far as is reasonably practical. 
In this case, that would mean putting Mr S in the position he would be in now if he hadnt 
been given the loan. But Mr S was given the loan and used the money, so its right he should 
repay what he borrowed. But I dont think Shelby should benefit from charges or interest. So 
I think Shelby should:
Calculate the total amount Mr S received from Shelby and deduct from that, the 
repayments hes made to the loan.
oIf this results in Mr S having repaid more than he received, any overpayments 
should be refunded to him. Interest at a rate of 8% simple per year should be 
added to any overpayments from the date they were made until the date of 
settlement*.
oIf the calculation means theres still a balance for Mr S to pay, Shelby should 
let Mr S know how much is outstanding and reach a suitable, affordable 
payment plan with him. I remind Shelby of its obligation to treat customers 
fairly.
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ss credit file regarding the loan. 
* If Shelby considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans 
should put things right for Mr S as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman