DRN-2564292
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy because he received a letter from Home Retail Group Card Services 
Limited which said it wouldnt be issuing him with a new card when his current card expired.
What happened
Mr T is unhappy about a number of issues relating to a card account he holds with Home 
Retail Group Card Services Limited (trading as Argos). These include the following:
Argos didnt receive his proof of name change
Argos issued two cards to him in a short space of time
Argos provided poor customer service when he called
Argos didnt respond to his email
Argos told him it would take 7 - 10 days for his new card to arrive
Argos told him it wouldnt be issuing a new card when his old card expired
Mr T feels that hes received poor service from Argos. He says that Argos write to him saying 
it wouldnt be issuing a new card when his current card expired but that it recently sent him a 
new card which is due to expire in 2023. He doesnt understand why Argos has done this.
Our investigator looked at everything but didnt uphold the complaint. She said she didnt 
think Argos needed to do anything differently. 
Mr T didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at how Argos responded when Mr T asked it to change the name on his account. 
I can see that Mr T called Argos to chase for a response a couple of weeks after he had sent 
details of his proof of name change by post. Whilst I understand Mr Ts concern about the 
delay in acknowledging his name change, I dont think the delay was excessive. I think it was 
reasonable for Argos to take a couple of weeks to receive the proof of name change and 
process it.
I appreciate that Mr T was disappointed when Argos told him it would take 7  10 days for 
his new card (with his name changed) to arrive. Argos has explained that it uses Royal Mail 
to deliver cards. I dont think 7  10 days is an unreasonable estimate of how long it might 
take for a card to arrive, because Argos has no control over how long it might take for a 
third-party company to deliver items.
I can see that when Mr T emailed Argos with his complaint, Argos sent an 
acknowledgement. Mr T replied to the acknowledgement and included some further 
information, which he asked Argos to keep. I understand why Mr T was concerned that 
Argos didnt reply to his email, especially as he had sent important information. However, I 
dont think Argos can reasonably be expected to reply to emails as soon as they are 
received, due to the sheer number of emails it receives every day. I can see that Argos was 
in contact with Mr T around a week later and at that point, it confirmed that it had received 
his information and that it was still investigating his complaint. Based on what Ive seen, Im 
satisfied that Argos kept Mr T updated with the progress of his complaint. 
Ive listened to some of the telephone calls that Mr T had with Argos. I understand that Mr T 
feels that he received poor customer service. Having listened to the calls, Im unable to say 
that the customer service was poor. Im satisfied that the advisers answered Mr Ts 
questions about his change of name and about the progress of the investigation of his 
complaint.
In relation to Argos issuing two cards to Mr T within a short space of time, I can see that one 
of these cards was issued following the change of name, and the other was issued because 
the old one was due to expire. Whilst I appreciate that Mr T would have preferred to receive 
one card only, Im unable to ask Argos to change its processes in relation to card issuing.
I appreciate that Mr T was concerned when Argos told him that it wouldnt be issuing a new 
card once his old card expired. Argos has explained that it had conducted a review of how 
Mr Ts account was managed in line with its responsible lending policy and reached a 
decision that it wouldnt issue a new card. Im unable to say that Argos shouldnt have 
carried out a review, because lenders are required to carry out checks to make sure lending 
is affordable.
I can see that Argos later wrote to Mr T and issued him with a new card. Argos has 
explained that it issued the new card because it had kept Mr Ts account under review and 
that on a further review, he met the criteria for a new card. I understand why Mr T found it 
confusing to be told that he wouldnt be issued with a new card, only then to be issued with 
one, but Im satisfied that this was a as result of Argos applying the relevant lending criteria, 
so Im unable to say that it did anything wrong here.
I understand that Mr T has experienced some customer service issues with Argos which 
caused him frustration. But overall, and taking into account everything Ive seen, I dont think 
Argos has acted unfairly or unreasonably, so I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman