DRN-3969414
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc failed to fully refund transactions he didnt recognise 
and compromised the debit cards issued on his account.
What happened
What Mr M says
On several occasions, Mr M reported to Santander that numerous transactions had occurred 
on his account that he didnt recognise. Initially he reported that some of them had been 
done with the actual card issued to his account using both the contactless and Chip and PIN 
(Personal Identification Number) plus transactions using the card details online.
Several of the disputed transactions were from a few years earlier. Mr M said he hadnt 
received his statements which was why he hadnt noticed some of the transactions he was 
now disputing. He also said he didnt make online transactions.
Mr M received several hundred pounds back in refunds from Santander and payments to 
recognise Mr M had some poor customer service. Santander declined to refund several of 
the disputed transactions and none from the historical list provided by Mr M.
Mr M believed that Santander were compromising his card details which enabled other 
parties to use his card to make purchases.
What Santander say
Santander received various claims from Mr M about his account which identified numerous  
transactions he didnt recognise. They explained that some of them used the physical card 
and Mr M had confirmed no one else had access to it, knew the PIN and he lived alone. 
Mr M later said only online transactions were being questioned. When Mr M reported 
difficulties with his card, Santander replaced it on about ten occasions over a relatively short 
period of time. 
Santander confirmed that they had the correct address for Mr M and had sent him 
statements on a monthly basis and werent aware of any problems with their delivery.
Santander declined to refund any transactions older than 13 months  based on the terms of 
the account and current regulations concerning the reporting of unrecognised transactions. 
They refunded numerous payments to Mr M and said that these were automatically paid 
back to him with minimal investigation into the background.
The investigation so far
Mr M was left unhappy with how Santander dealt with his claims and continued to believe 
that theyd compromised his cards, enabling other parties to use them to make payments 
from his account.
Mr M brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review 
where it was looked into by one of our investigators. Information from both parties was 
considered. Mr M reported that he had difficulties understanding written words. The 
investigator thought that Santander had acted reasonably and the remaining disputed 
transactions that werent refunded were either outside the 13 month time limit or they were 
likely authorised by Mr M. Mr Ms complaint wasnt upheld.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Santander can hold Mr M liable for the disputed payments if the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them. 
Santander can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr M authorised 
the transactions, but Santander cannot say that the use of the card and/or the PIN or the use 
of online payment details conclusively proves that the payments were authorised. 
Unless Santander can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Mr Ms account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Mr M. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Mr M responsible for the disputed 
transactions or not.
Santander made several refunds to Mr M and replaced his card about ten times when he 
reported difficulties with it or transactions he didnt recognise. They declined to make any 
refunds for payments outside of the 13-month window because their terms and the 
regulations allow this. 
This can be overridden if I think there was a legitimate reason for not notifying Santander, 
but here, they issued statements on a monthly basis to Mr Ms correct address. I appreciate 
he said he didnt receive them, but Ive seen no evidence to suggest there was an issue with 
Santanders systems and I think it unlikely that multiple monthly statements went astray.
Ive considered the difficulties Mr M reported with dealing with written words, and whilst I 
appreciate that this may have caused some issues for him to understand what had gone on 
with his account, he was ultimately able to identify those transactions he later reported to 
Santander. I didnt see any reference to these difficulties from any of the Santander records 
they sent, so its unclear if they knew about his condition. But its his case that it was the lack 
of statements that caused the delay rather than an ability to understand the transactions.
What that means here is that I dont think theres a plausible reason why Mr M couldnt have 
raised them earlier with Santander and I think their decision to decline refunds over this time 
limit was reasonable.
Regarding the other claims made by Mr M, the bulk of them appear to have been repaid by 
Santander, including some of those made with the physical card. Ive also noted that several 
of the payments also required additional authentication to authorise the transactions. If these payments were made by third parties without Mr Ms permission, they would have to have 
been able to access his account and change details in order to be able to satisfy the 
additional authentication requests. 
As far as I can see, Mr Ms mobile phone is registered with Santander, which is also the 
same one registered with our service. So, for anyone else to have taken over his account, I 
would have expected Mr M to receive messages about transactions from Santander to his 
mobile phone. It seems unlikely that numerous transactions requiring additional 
authentication could take place without Mr M becoming aware of it.
Ive also examined the pattern of the disputed transactions as this can often highlight 
unauthorised usage of an account. Theres no particular pattern to the disputed transactions 
and they seem to appear at various intervals. Its usual to see such unauthorised card usage 
to empty the accounts because the person who has those details wont know when the card 
is reported to the bank. 
Thats not the case with the disputed transactions here, and considering the card was 
replaced about ten times, each time with new security numbers (which arent known to any 
staff), it seems unlikely that someone has been able to acquire those details on so many 
occasions considering Mr M lives alone and hasnt told anyone the details of his cards.
Overall, I think it more likely than not that Mr M, or someone with his permission, was 
responsible for making these transactions and it was reasonable for Santander to hold him 
liable for those they didnt refund.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman