DRN-3310287
The complaint
Miss B complains that TSB Bank Plc hasnt reimbursed her for payments she made as part 
of a scam.
What happened
In March 2018 Miss B spoke to someone on the telephone purporting to be acting on behalf 
of HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC). Ill refer to them as a fraudster throughout this 
decision as its accepted this was the case.
The fraudster persuaded Miss B that they were an officer of the court and she was in trouble 
for underpaying her taxes. At the time, Miss B was self-employed and used an accountant to 
assist with her taxes. She was told that important paperwork had been sent to her old 
address and this was her accountants fault. Miss B was also told shed already missed her 
court appearance and so needed to repay £11,000 for her debt and court costs.
Miss B says she believed they were legitimate because the fraudster knew personal 
information about her, including financial information and her address. She said shed had 
other problems with her post and so it seemed possible she hadnt received the letters they 
referred to.
The fraudster proceeded to convince Miss B that if she didnt pay her debt then shed be 
arrested, and as a foreign national shed then be deported. She was also told the police 
were watching her and had access to her laptop and phone. When she said shed speak to 
her accountant she was told court processes are confidential and that to do so was illegal. 
Miss B was persuaded that she could no longer pay HMRC directly and would need to pay 
via iTunes top up cards and Steam wallet gift cards. Later on, Miss B was also convinced to 
withdraw cash and use this to make payments via cryptocurrency.
Over three days Miss B made several payments using her credit and debit cards with TSB 
and another bank. After the first four credit card payments were made, TSB blocked Miss Bs 
card and sent her a verification text message. Miss B responded to the text confirming the
transactions were her and proceeded to make payments from her debit card. The next day, 
after her credit card was unblocked, Miss B went into a TSB branch and withdrew cash from 
her credit card.
Miss B says she went to the park after making each purchase and read the codes from the 
vouchers shed purchased over the phone to the fraudsters. They gave her specific 
instructions which she followed.
TSB declined Miss Bs claim on the basis that she made the transactions herself and 
therefore they were authorised.
Details of the disputed payments and relevant account activity are as follows:
Credit card
Date 
(2018)Time Place/location Type of transaction Amount
14:13 Brixton WH Smith Chip and PIN £1,000
15:33 Brixton Currys 
SuperstoreChip and PIN £1,000
17:13 Clapham WH Smith Chip and PIN £1,300
18:21 Clapham WH Smith Chip and PIN £1,00021 March 
18:21 Fraud text sent to Miss B 
mobile. Credit card blocked
7:13 Miss B confirms 
transactions as genuine. 
Block removed
10:44 Clapham TSB Cash withdrawal £1,80022 March 
Cash fee £54
13.56 WANDSWORTH 
SAINSBURYSATM cash withdrawal £200
13.58 WANDSWORTH 
SAINSBURYSATM cash withdrawal £300
16:06 SAINSBURYS ATM cash withdrawal £50023 March 
Cash fee £15
1 April Over limit charge £12
Total £7,100
Total fees: £61
Debit Card
Date 
(2018)Time Place/location Type of transaction Amount
18:21 Clapham WH Smith Chip and PIN £1,000 21 March 
19:25 Brixton WH Smith Chip and PIN £800
22 March 9:33 Streatham Tesco 
ExpressATM withdrawal- Chip 
and PIN£500
23 March 9:57 Streatham WH Smith Chip and PIN £1,400
Total £3,700
Miss B complained to our service and the investigator upheld the complaint. Miss B 
accepted this but TSB didnt agree so the complaint was passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision on 3 February 2022  here I upheld the complaint in part. In 
summary I concluded that:
The disputed payments were significantly different from Miss Bs usual account 
activity and would have appeared suspicious. So I thought TSB ought to have 
stepped in sooner and done more to establish whether Miss B was the victim of 
fraud.
 I thought a fair point to say TSB ought to have been concerned that Miss B was the 
potential victim of fraud was by the third payment.
If TSB had taken appropriate steps in the circumstances, I thought it was likely this 
would have identified the scam and prevented further loss to Miss B.Miss Bs actions contributed to her loss and so I thought it was fair to reduce the 
award to reflect this.
Miss B accepted my provisional decision and TSB agreed to my recommendations as a 
gesture of goodwill. So Im ready to issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision and have not provided new 
information in relation to my reasoning, my decision is in line with it. Ill set out my full 
reasoning below 
When considering whats fair and reasonable Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance, and standards; codes of practice; and where 
appropriate what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider TSB 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The terms and conditions for Miss Bs Current Account say:
8.1 General conditions about payments out of your account (f) You will not be able to give a 
payment instruction using a card or your Security Details if we have stopped, or suspended, 
your ability to use them. We can do this if we reasonably consider it necessary for reasons 
relating to (ii) suspected unauthorised or fraudulent use
(g) We may refuse to carry out a payment instruction, or other transaction on your account, 
such as a withdrawal in one of our branches if(iv) the payment seems unusual compared 
with the way you normally use your account
The terms and conditions of Miss Bs Credit card say:
11.2 (a) You will not be able to give payment instructions using your Card, Cheques or Security Details if we have stopped, or suspended, your ability to use them. We can do this if 
we reasonably consider it necessary for reasons relating to:
the security of your account or Security Details;
suspected unauthorised or fraudulent use of your account or Security Details; or
a significantly increased risk that you may be unable to make your repayments.
If we do this we will tell you as soon as possible. Well usually contact you by calling or 
sending you a text message, by displaying a message on Internet Banking or telling you at 
the time you try to make a payment. If we cant tell you in advance, well tell you immediately 
after. But, we might not be able to tell you if that means we might compromise our security 
measures. We also might not be able to tell you if there are legal reasons that we cant do 
so.
Well remove the stop on your Card or Security Details as soon as we can, once any of the 
reasons for stopping it are resolved
20.1 We can contact you by:
Post
Phone
Electronically  this means email, text message and other digital methods such as 
sending you a message on your Internet Banking. By giving us your mobile number 
or email address, you agree we can use these to get in touch with you so that we can 
service your account.
Well need to contact you about your account for various reasons. For example, well let you 
know if there are changes to your terms and conditions or other important information you 
need to know about your account. Or well speak to you if we need to prevent fraud on your 
account
I need to decide whether TSB acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss B when 
she made the transactions set out above or whether it could and should have done more 
before processing them. That is a question of fact and degree depending on the 
circumstances of each individual case.
It isnt in dispute that Miss B authorised these transactions as she made them herself. 
However, I agree that TSB didnt do enough in the circumstances. After the first four 
payments TSB blocked Miss Bs credit card. TSBs systems had identified the activity as 
suspicious and sent Miss B a text to validate whether these payments were genuine.
I think TSB ought to have stepped in sooner and done more to establish whether Miss B was 
the victim of fraud. Im persuaded that its likely this would have prevented further loss to 
Miss B. Ill explain this in more detail.
Ive set out above what I consider to have been good practice at the time. Further, TSBs 
terms and conditions for both accounts clearly allow it to prevent the use of those accounts 
when it suspects unauthorised or fraudulent use. There are also references to monitoring 
unusual account activity and potentially speaking to their customers to prevent fraud. TSB 
would have been aware of the prevalence of scams and that it would not always be enough 
to simply verify that it was their customer making the payments. Whilst I accept the purchases were with reputable retailers, this doesnt mean that there was no risk of their 
customer being the victim of fraud.
Based on Miss Bs credit card statements for the year leading up to these payments (August 
2017 to March 2018), it appears her usual spend is between £100 - £250 with the highest 
being for around £600. Miss Bs annual credit card statement also shows she spent less that 
£5,500 in the whole year (2 February 2017 to 1 February 2018). So, I think Miss Bs 
spending of £1,000 or more an hour on 21 March 2018 was significantly different from her 
usual activity and would have appeared suspicious. I therefore think TSB ought to have been 
concerned that she was the potential victim of fraud sooner, and by the third payment.
Im satisfied that had TSB spoken to Miss B to ascertain what they were for and why she 
was making them, the scam would have unfolded. And its more likely than not that this in 
turn would have prevented Miss B from making further purchases or withdrawals as part of 
the scam. I say this because Miss B didnt have a cover story prepared at the time, and 
whilst she was later coached into telling branch staff she needed funds for a personal 
emergency, this would not have been consistent with purchasing vouchers from high street 
retailers. I also agree that TSB missed multiple opportunities to intervene or provide 
sufficient warnings when the unusual activity continued  in particular when Miss B 
requested to withdraw cash from her credit card in branch. Whilst the banking protocol may 
not have been rolled out in that branch at that time, the branch staff would still have been 
aware that this was an unusual and expensive way for Miss B to have accessed funds. 
Miss B has described her personal appearance as visibly distressed, so much so that people 
stopped her in the street to ask if she was ok. Taking all of this in the context of her other 
recent account activity (including a fraud alert) I think it would have been good practice at the 
time to have had a more in-depth conversation. Again, I think an appropriate conversation 
would have revealed the scam.
Did Miss Bs actions contribute to her loss?
Whilst I do think TSB failed to take sufficient steps to protect Miss B, I also need to consider 
her own actions and whether she should bear some responsibility for her losses. Having 
done so I think I should make a deduction to the award to reflect this
I understand Miss B felt considerable pressure and worry at what the fraudster had told her. I 
also accept that they used sophisticated techniques to persuade Miss B to take the steps 
that she did. However, I have concerns, similar to those raised by TSB, as to the plausibility 
of the scam. I say this because I dont think HMRC or the courts would ever ask to be paid 
via iTunes vouchers, Steam wallet gift cards or cryptocurrency.
I believe a reasonable person ought to have suspected as much and made further enquiries 
of HMRC or the courts through its official channels before buying the cards. I also dont 
consider the fraudster behaved in a manner a reasonable person would expect an officer of 
the court would. For example, in saying that the police were monitoring her every move and 
accessing her computer remotely, or by staying on the line while Miss B went into the TSB 
branch.
In the circumstances, I consider Miss B must bear some responsibility for her loss. I think it 
would be fair to reduce the award made to Miss B by 25%.
Lastly, I note Miss B says she didnt receive the £30 compensation awarded by TSB for the 
customer service provided in relation to her claim. If this payment was made, TSB should 
clarify when this was done. If not, it should pay this now.My final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank Plc should:
Reimburse Miss B £5,625  this breaks down as
o £2,850 (75% of £3,800) i.e. the fourth payment onwards made from Miss Bs 
credit card; plus 
o£2,775 (75% of £3,700) i.e. payments made on Miss Bs debit card
Reimburse all interest, fees and charges applied to both accounts as a result of the 
disputed payments made from (and including)18:21 on 21 March 2018 onwards.
Where the above refunds would have placed Miss Bs accounts in credit, pay interest 
at 8% simple from the date of the payments to the date of settlement.
If TSB deducts tax from the interest elements of this award, it should provide Miss B 
with the appropriate tax deduction certificate
Amend any adverse information on Miss Bs credit file resulting from the payments, 
fees, charges, and interest referenced above.
Pay Miss B £30 compensation if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman