DRN-3673775
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first directs account switching advert 
was misleading. Mr W also complains first direct unfairly declined his application and 
accused him of money laundering. 
What happened
Earlier this year, Mr W saw an advert for an account switch to first direct. The advert 
promised a cash incentive and gave details of some of the qualifying criteria. 
First direct went on to reject Mr Ws application but, when asked, didnt give a specific 
reason why. Mr W went on to complain and first direct issued a final response. First direct 
said regulations obliged it to complete checks for money laundering purposes on all 
applications it receives. First direct also said its application criteria was commercially 
sensitive and didnt give a specific reason it was declined. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ws complaint. They thought first direct had dealt 
with Mr Ws case fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Mr W asked to appeal and said first directs promotion was misleading and made it appear 
that there were only limited reasons for declining an application. Mr W also said the 
investigator had failed to explain why First Direct had accused him of money laundering. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First directs advert read as follows: 
Who can apply? 
You. Probably. If youre over 18, a UK resident, havent been declared bankrupt or 
registered for an IVA in the last six years (or be in the process of doing so), and have a 
phone number and email address we can contact you with, wed love to welcome you. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W but Im not persuaded the advert guarantees an account 
application would be approved. The advert invites potential account holders to apply. And it 
gives key criteria that first direct says it wont accept. But Im satisfied the requirement to 
apply was made clear. The advert doesnt guarantee approval. I havent been persuaded the 
advert is misleading. 
I understand Mr W wants a clearer understanding of why his application was declined. But I 
have to balance that against first directs point that its application criteria is private and 
commercially sensitive information. First directs final response gives general information 
about the sort of factors it considers. It also says information from the application and 
external sources, like Mr Ws credit file, were taken into account. First directs confirmed the 
application wasnt successful as it didnt meet its lending criteria. Im satisfied thats a 
reasonable explanation so Im not telling first direct to go into further detail. 
Whilst first direct isnt able to share commercially sensitive information publicly, it has shared 
a copy of Mr Ws application with us. Im satisfied the application was fairly assessed in line 
with first directs application criteria and reasonably declined. I havent seen anything that 
shows first direct made an error or treated Mr W unfairly. 
Mr W has told us first direct accused him of money laundering. I can see first directs final 
responses says it has to complete various checks when assessing all applications to ensure 
its regulatory obligations for money laundering purposes are met. First directs specifically 
referred to completing these checks on all cases, not just Mr Ws. In my view, the statement 
was given to give a wider context to the checks first direct says it has to complete. I havent 
been persuaded first direct made money laundering accusations against Mr W. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W but as Im satisfied first direct dealt with his complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to take further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman