DRN-2880605
The complaint
Mr M complains that British Gas Services Limited (British Gas) failed to properly record what 
it had done during three annual services under his home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M holds a Home Care policy with British Gas that includes an annual service. This is for a 
property he rents out to tenants. In November 2020 British Gas carried out an annual service 
but Mr M said the engineer didnt leave a checklist at the property to show what theyd 
serviced. He also said he hadnt seen a checklist for the annual services completed in 2018 
and 2019 either, and his tenants couldnt recall if one had been left with them. So, Mr M 
complained to British Gas. 
British Gas said the checklist is left at the property with an authorised adult. And it said it 
would expect the tenant to send the checklist to their landlord. It said it didnt keep copies of 
the actual checklist and it only had a record of the comments that were made on it. It said it 
would send Mr M letters for each of the three years from 2018 to 2020 and include the 
comments from its records. British Gas apologised for the inconvenience and gave Mr M £50 
by way of an apology.
Mr M remained unhappy so he approached this service. He said he didnt think hed received 
the service hed paid for as there was reason to doubt that an annual service had taken 
place. He said he wanted a refund of the cost of his policy for each year between 2018 and 
2020 and compensation for the time hed spent pursuing the complaint. He said he also 
wanted British Gas to change its process so a detailed checklist was held centrally and 
issued to the landlord in a specified time period. 
Our investigator said this service couldnt ask British Gas to change its processes  that was 
a matter for the Financial Conduct Authority. She didnt think there was enough evidence to 
say whether or not a checklist had been left at the property. But she was satisfied the notes 
of the annual services on British Gass records were enough to confirm the work had been 
completed. Mr M had also been sent gas safety certificates for each year to confirm a 
service had been carried out. Our investigator didnt think British Gas should refund the cost 
of Mr Ms policy, as hed had the benefit of the cover for those three years. She said British 
Gas had given Mr M £50 for not providing a checklist at the end of all three visits and she 
didnt think it was reasonable to ask it to pay any further compensation. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view. He said the contract was between British Gas 
and him, not his tenants. And the information provided by British Gas after he complained 
wasnt an adequate substitute for the checklist that should have been completed and left by 
the engineer. As Mr M remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M wants British Gas to keep checklists centrally and give them to landlords within a 
specified period. As our investigator said, this service cant ask British Gas to change its 
processes. Mr M would need to pursue that matter with British Gas or possibly the Financial 
Conduct Authority. My role here is to decide if British Gas has acted fairly and reasonably in 
all the circumstances and in light of the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy. And I think it 
has. Let me explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms Home Care policy sets out what it covers and includes 
the following information about the annual service:
One of our engineers will visit your home to complete your annual service. This will 
include testing the gases your appliance or boiler produces.
If the visit shows that its necessary to take your appliance apart to adjust or clean it, 
well do so.
During the visit, our engineer will fill in a checklist that shows you exactly what weve 
looked at. If we find a problem or fault that needs to be fixed, well tell you about it.
The evidence shows that British Gas has records of an annual service being carried out in all 
three years. Following the annual service in November 2020 British Gas advised Mr M to 
upgrade his gas hob because the flame was poor and recommended a powerflush to his 
boiler due to its condition. Mr M also received gas safety certificates in each year following 
the annual service. So, Im satisfied an annual service was completed in all three years. 
It's unclear whether the British Gas engineer left a checklist at Mr Ms property in each of the 
years from 2018 and 2020. Mr Ms tenants and his property manager said no checklist was 
left in 2020  and they cant recall one being left in 2018 or 2019 either. British Gas believe a 
checklist would have been left with the tenants but cant confirm that. And if a checklist was 
left at the property, it doesnt appear to have been passed on to Mr M.
While British Gas cant confirm that a checklist was left at Mr Ms property following each 
annual service, it has records of a checklist being completed on each occasion. And it sent 
Mr M letters for each year to show what the engineer looked at. Mr M said he was concerned 
he didnt have a proper record of the service, which left him exposed to potential claims of 
negligence. The letters British Gas has sent him confirm that an annual service was 
completed in those three years and that his boiler was checked by a British Gas engineer, 
should he need to provide evidence of that. So, I think that was a fair and reasonable way of 
responding to Mr Ms concerns.
Mr M says he doesnt think the notes of the annual services provided by British Gas provide 
the level of detail specified in his policy. The terms and conditions set out what the engineer 
should do during an annual service and concludes that the checklist will tell the policyholder 
exactly what theyve looked at and tell them about anything that needs to be fixed. The notes 
of the annual service are brief but they set out what the engineer looked at. British Gas also 
contacted Mr M soon after the annual service in November 2020 to let him know about a 
couple of problems it had found and suggested ways of fixing them. In light of this, and in the 
absence of any further evidence, I think it would be unfair to say British Gas failed to fulfil its 
obligations under the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy.
Mr M has said he wants a refund of the entire cost of his policy for each year between 2018 
and 2020. But I dont think that would be proportionate. Hes had the benefit of the policy throughout those three years, including the annual services, so hes received the service he 
paid for. So, I dont think it would be fair to ask British Gas to refund Mr Ms policy premiums. 
I can understand why Mr M was frustrated he wasnt able to see the checklists completed by 
the engineer in 2018, 2019 and 2020. Its not clear why they werent passed to him but I can 
see hes been inconvenienced by having to approach British Gas to confirm the annual 
services were completed. British Gas has given Mr M £50 by way of an apology and, in the 
circumstances, I think that amount is fair and reasonable for the inconvenience its potentially 
caused. I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
My final decision
British Gas Services Limited has already paid £50 to settle the complaint and I think this 
amount is fair in all the circumstances. I dont think it needs to do any more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman