DRN-3198824
The complaint
Ms J complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) wont allow her to use her No Claims 
Discount (NCD) years when taking out a motor insurance policy. Ms J is represented in this 
matter by her son, Mr K. 
What happened
Ms J had 13 years NCD when she said she was stopped from driving by her partner in 2017. 
Ms J applied for a new policy in 2021, but UKI said her NCD had expired. Mr K thought this 
was unfair and UKI was discriminating against Ms J.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought UKI had 
clearly stated that NCD expired after two years non-use. He thought this was standard 
across the insurance industry. And so he didnt think UKI had treated Ms J unfairly or had 
discriminated against her.
Mr K replied that UKI should consider reinstating some of Ms Js NCD entitlement. He asked 
for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Ms J would feel frustrated by UKIs decision as she was unable to 
drive for some years due to her partners behaviour. I was sorry to hear about that. Mr K 
feels that UKIs policy term is discriminatory towards women who are more likely to be 
abused in a relationship. 
Im satisfied that UKIs policy term is clearly stated on its website where Mr K took out the 
policy on behalf of Ms J:
Every year you hold a policy in your own name without making a claim, you build up a No 
Claim Discount (NCD) which could save you money. Once you take out a policy with us, 
we'll give you further details on how to send proof of your NCD. Just note, your NCD must 
have been used on a policy in the past two years and earned in the UK. Plus, your NCD can 
only be used on one policy at any one time.  
I think this is standard across the industry. And I think its a reasonable policy term and 
condition as UKI is entitled to consider driving history when assessing the risk of a 
policyholder making a claim. 
Mr K thought the term was discriminatory towards women. Mr K thought women were more 
likely to be the abused party in a relationship. But Im not satisfied that hes demonstrated 
that UKI treated Ms J differently because of her sex. UKI said it applies the same term and 
condition to all consumers. And I think it hasnt acted unreasonably in considering that a gap 
of over two years in driving would affect the risk it was insuring. 
As our investigator has explained, its for a court to decide if UKI has breached the Equality 
Act 2010, as Mr K suggests.
So, in conclusion, I dont think UKI acted unreasonably or unfairly in not accepting Ms Js 
NCD as it was more than two years old.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman