DRN-3693786
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
declined his claim under his Horse and Rider insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
Mr L has held a Horse and Rider insurance policy with NFU since 2019.
Mr L purchased pony S on 24 February 2022. Ss previous owner insured S with 
NFU.
Mr L removed his previous pony, J, from his Horse and Rider insurance policy and 
added S to it on 4 March 2022.
Following an incident on 8 March 2022, S was seen by a vet and a claim was 
registered with NFU.
NFU declined the claim because the policy excluded conditions identified during the 
first 14 days of cover.
Mr L complained to NFU. He said the policy wording allowed for his claim within the 
first 14 days of cover if he could prove he held previous equivalent insurance up to 
the start of cover. He said his policy had provided cover for his previous pony with 
identical cover limits for veterinary bills up to when his previous pony was removed 
from cover and S added. 
NFU rejected Mr Ls complaint. It said Mr L had not held previous continuous 
equivalent insurance up to the start of cover for S because S was not Mr Ls 
insurable interest until he purchased the horse and cover was incepted on 4 March 
2022. Because Mr L didnt have previous insurance for S, it said it was correct to 
exclude his claim in line with policy terms.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NFU applied the following exclusion to Mr Ls claim:
First 14 days - Illness, disease or CONDITION
WE will not pay any claims for any new illness, disease or CONDITION displaying clinical 
signs or symptoms within 14 days of the START OF COVER unless YOU can prove YOU 
have held previous continuous equivalent insurance up to the START OF COVER.
There is no dispute S suffered with a condition as defined by the policy and the claim was 
made within the first 14 days of cover. The issue for me to determine is whether Mr L held 
previous continuous equivalent insurance prior to adding S to the policy as this is required 
for a valid claim within the first 14 days of cover.
The policy doesnt define previous continuous equivalent insurance, so I have considered 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I understand Mr Ls point that his policy was in force up to the start of cover for S (the policy 
number hasnt changed) and there has been no break in the policy term. But there was a 
fundamental change to the insurance  this being the insured pony covered by the insurance 
policy. Im not persuaded that J and S are equal for reasons including age and the sum 
insured.
Because of this, Im not persuaded Mr L has held previous continuous equivalent insurance 
and I think NFU was reasonable to apply the policy exclusion to the claim for this reason. So, 
I wont be asking NFU to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman