DRN-2788243
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the way a broker, Quotemetoday.co.uk Ltd arranged a 
commercial vehicle insurance policy for him. He says he gave Quotemetoday the correct 
information about his No Claims Bonus (NCB) but he had to cancel his policy and was 
charged cancellation fees. 
What happened
In March 2020 Mr H bought a commercial vehicle insurance policy through the broker, 
Quotemetoday which Ill refer to as QMT in my decision. 
Mr H says he told the agent at QMT in a call that he no longer had any motor trade NCB 
history as this has passed to the business that he sold his garage to. Mr H said he told the 
agent he only had ten years private NCB history. 
In June 2020 after receiving proof of his NCB, QMT told Mr H that the insurer intended to 
cancel the policy. The reason given was that Mr Hs NCB history wasnt acceptable as it was 
for private insurance and not for motor trade insurance. QMT said Mr H owed cancellation 
fees which Mr H thought was very unfair. So he raised a complaint. 
QMT didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. So Mr H asked us to look at things for him. Hed asked 
QMT to send him recordings of the calls he had with it when he bought the policy. After 
receiving the calls, Mr H told us he thought QMT had edited the calls and not sent all of the 
recordings to him. 
Mr H said he wanted QMT to cancel the debt it said he owed on cancellation of the policy. 
Our investigator thought there had been a misunderstanding when Mr H had explained the 
circumstances of his NCB in the call. And he checked with QMT as to beeps in the call 
recordings: QMT said these were due to Mr H providing his card details to QMT and so it 
was correctly masked in the call  and the recording of it. 
The investigator thought QMT had acted reasonably and so didnt recommend Mr Hs 
complaint should be upheld. 
Mr H doesnt agree and so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H is a commercial customer. So in line with the Insurance Act 2015 he has a duty to 
make a fair presentation of the risk and disclose every material circumstance which an 
insurer knows or ought to know when buying a commercial insurance policy. 
Ive listened to the key calls from the recordings provided by QMT. Mr H says he made a 
recording of the calls but the information is no longer available on his phone. 
In his complaint to us, Mr H said that the agent didnt mention anything about his NCB in the 
second call. He believed the agent was pushing for him to buy the policy.
In response to the investigators view, Mr H says he believes the beeps in the second call 
mask when he told the agent that he didnt have any trade NCB because hed sold his 
garage business. 
QMT says the beeps are due to masking card details Mr H provided. And it says the agent 
explained to Mr H after the beeps that he would need to provide proof of his NCB and that if 
it is over 12 months old it may be invalid. Having listened to the call, I agree with this 
statement. QMT says that had Mr H told it he had no trade NCB; the conversation would 
have been for longer than the beep period as QMT wouldnt have been able to produce a 
quote for him. 
Ive also listened carefully to the first sales call where the situation regarding Mr Hs NCB 
was discussed in more detail. At the end of this call Mr H asked QMT to call him back later 
that day as he wanted to think about the quote provided in the first call before agreeing to go 
ahead with the purchase. This was the purpose of the second call.
In the first call the agent asked Mr H if he had trade NCB. Mr H replied that he had both: ten 
years with his MOT station (the garage business hed sold) and ten years private NCB. 
At around two minutes, the agent asked Mr H how many years NCB he had in his name. Mr 
H confirmed he has ten years. The agent asked: ten years, is it trade?
Mr H replied that he had ten years trade and ten years private. The agent asked if the trade 
NCB was within the last 12 months. Mr H replied that it was. 
At around ten minutes the agent checked again with Mr H about when his trade NCB ended. 
Mr H confirmed it was just under a year ago. 
I understand Mr H believes in the second call he explained that he didnt have trade NCB 
and this has been deleted by QMT. Ive considered all of the information available and what I 
think on balance is more likely. I find the information Mr H provided when asked in the first 
call was clear in that he had ten years trade NCB which had ended less than a year before 
the start date of this policy. And I find that QMT advised Mr H after the beeps in the second 
call that he would need to provide proof of NCB and if it was over 12 months since last used 
it may be invalid. 
So taking into account all of the information available, I dont think on balance that Mr H told 
QMT in a second call that he had no trade NCB. I think the policy was set up based on the 
information Mr H provided in the first call  that he had both ten years trade NCB and ten 
years private NCB: the trade NCB having ended less than a year before.
As Mr H didnt provide evidence of his trade NCB, the insurer gave notice of cancellation. 
I understand Mr H is very unhappy about the amount hes been asked to pay following the 
cancellation of the policy. Mr H was given the option to cancel the policy rather than the 
insurer cancel it, so that he wouldnt have to declare a cancellation by an insurer in future. 
Such a declaration can have a significant impact on availability of insurance and the price Mr 
H might have to pay for cover in future.The insurer advised QMT that a claim was made against the policy in May 2020  before 
cancellation. So Mr H has been charged for the full years premium. Mr H has made a 
separate complaint against the insurer about this, so this doesnt form part of my decision 
against the broker, QMT. As the policy was cancelled, Mr H has been charged a cancellation 
fee and arrangement fees by the insurer, QMT and the finance company. 
QMTs terms of business document sets out what Mr H will be charged in the event of 
cancellation. So I dont think QMT has acted unreasonably in applying the fees it did. 
I understand Mr H is very disappointed with the handling of his policy by QMT and the 
amount he owes on cancellation. QMT tried to provide alternative cover for Mr H, but wasnt 
able to. It was clear from the first sales call that there was a very limited number of available 
policies when QMT carried out its search then. So although the NCB wasnt the only risk 
factor having an impact, this supports what QMT says that if Mr H had told it he had no trade 
NCB, it wouldnt have been able to provide a quote.
Overall I dont think QMT has acted unreasonably. So Im not asking it to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman