DRN-2584386
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) sent his debit card to his old address.
What happened
Mr R moved house in July 2020. He called Barclays on 1 July 2020 - to advise them. He 
asked for a new debit card to be sent to his new address. The card was sent to his old 
address. He tried to use his old card in December 2020, but it was declined.
Mr R complained  when he called Barclays in December 2020 he was told that his new 
card had been sent to his old address in July 2020. He was unhappy that his card was in the 
possession of other people for around five months  and this was a security risk.
Barclays said they couldnt confirm that Mr Rs address had been changed when hed called 
on 1 July 2020. They upheld his complaint and paid compensation of £30. Mr R felt that 
wasnt enough and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked at what had happened. He said Barclays couldnt find a call from Mr 
R on 1 July 2020  because Mr R had called from his old number (which he couldnt 
remember). The address was updated in Barclays records on 23 July 2020  but without 
being able to listen to the call, they couldnt be certain exactly what had happened. But 
Barclays had admitted their error  and he felt that the compensation theyd paid was 
reasonable for what had happened.
Mr R asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R says that because the card was in another house for around five months, this was a 
security risk as they had his bank details. He visited his old address in December 2020 and 
found that the envelope had been opened. Barclays couldnt find details of the call Mr R 
made to them on 1 July 2020  this may have been because hed changed his number since 
then. But they accepted that Mr R did call them then. Ive seen that they changed his 
address in their records on 23 July 2020  by which time the card had been sent to Mr Rs 
old address.
I can appreciate that Mr R feels strongly about what happened  and will be disappointed by 
my decision  but I wont be asking Barclays to increase their compensation payment to Mr 
R. I will explain why.
This service will make awards to consumers when we believe theyve been treated unfairly, 
or where theyve suffered losses as a result of a business making an error.
Its difficult to say with any certainty - whether what had happened did lead to a risk that, for 
example, the holders of Mr Rs card couldve made payments with it. But the fact is, they 
didnt. And therefore, Mr R didnt suffer any loss. So, I wont be making any award in that 
respect.
And  Barclays admitted that they sent the card to the wrong address and have apologised. 
Theyve paid compensation of £30. This is in line with what this service would normally 
expect to see for what happened so - I think its fair. So, I wont be asking them to do 
anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman