DRN-3668914
The complaint
Mr R complains about the level of service received from British Gas Insurance Limited under 
his homecare insurance policy.  
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to all parties so I wont repeat it here. In my 
decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
In summary, Mr R says British Gas failed to maintain his boiler system properly and provided 
conflicting information about the cause of faults. He says he had to replace the boiler at his 
own expense, lost out on rent, and thinks British Gas should cover this. 
British Gas say their engineers attended to assess the boiler system over the years, repaired 
faults, and advised on uninsured remedial works when required. They say the boiler failed 
due to sludge which Mr R was previously advised of. 
They didnt agree to cover Mr Rs boiler replacement costs or his loss of rent. They did, 
however, pay Mr R £200 as a manager thought engineers could have identified and resolved 
a leak sooner, but this delay didnt cause the boiler to fail which led to the advice given to 
replace it. 
Mr R wasnt happy and approached our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. He said British Gas were responsible for 
attending and diagnosing faults, and the claim notes suggested they did. He wasnt 
persuaded British Gas were responsible for Mr R later replacing the boiler or covering his 
loss of rent. 
Mr R didnt agree. He asked why British Gas continued to cover him despite knowing the 
boiler system had faults. He also said their remedial repair quotes were unfairly high and he 
received conflicting information over the cause of the issues during a period of roughly six 
months. As he didnt agree, the case was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has made many points in relation to this matter, I havent addressed each and every 
one. Were an informal service and so focus on what we consider to be pertinent points. 
Whether the policy entitled Mr R to a replacement boiler 
Mr R thinks British Gas should cover his boiler replacement costs. The claim notes suggest 
the boiler failed due to sludge when it was recommended that Mr R replace the boiler due to 
cost and its age. 
My starting point here is the policy. This says British Gas will replace a boiler if they cannot 
repair it. But this term also includes specific conditions. Looking at Mr Rs circumstances, the 
claim notes suggest his boiler system was installed in 1999. So, I dont think Mr R meets the 
conditions for a new boiler replacement under the policy. 
Whether British Gass actions resulted in Mr R having to replace the boiler 
Mr R claims British Gas failed to maintain his boiler and provided conflicting information, 
which led to him needing to replace it. Its important I explain that, for me to be satisfied 
British Gas should cover these boiler replacement costs, Id need to see conclusive 
supporting evidence that demonstrates they were responsible for it failing and requiring 
replacement, due to their actions or inaction. 
Ive looked at the engineer job notes  which were completed following visits to Mr Rs 
property  to start with. These show from 2017 issues of sludge in the system and blockages 
were found which were cleaned, and a powerflush was said to have been carried out by Mr 
R privately. A filter change was also recommended but this wasnt completed as far as I can 
see. 
Cleaning sludge and blockages were suggested to have been carried out in 2019 and in 
2020, when further sludge damage was said to have caused the boiler to fail, and Mr R was 
advised to replace the boiler due to costs and its age. 
British Gass responsibility under the contract of insurance was to diagnose faults, carry out 
insurance-related repairs, and advise Mr R of further uninsured remedial works when 
required. I think its reasonable to say the engineer job history demonstrates they fulfilled this 
responsibility. Mr R complained about the various advice given to him regarding repairs that 
could be carried out  so I think its fair to assume, based on the complaint file, he was made 
aware of both insurance-related repairs, and uninsured remedial works stated within these 
engineer job sheets. 
Mr R also says he received conflicting information  namely between July 2020 and 
February 2021. He says he was told the issue with the boiler was due to several things, such 
as sludge, a leak, the need of another powerflush and replacement radiators. 
Ive kept in mind, however, the advices given previously regarding sludge and blockages in 
the system, and other issues identified over the years. I dont think several issues being 
reported on a boiler system installed in 1999 necessarily means engineers were incorrect 
with their diagnosis  their role is to diagnose issues found during visits and provide their 
professional opinion on the appropriate repairs required. So, even though Mr R was provided 
with several reasons as to why the boiler was faulty, I dont think this demonstrates British 
Gas should pay to replace it after it failed later. 
Overall, in the absence of conclusive evidence that shows British Gas were responsible for 
Mr R having to replace his boiler, I wont be requiring them to cover these costs. 
British Gas continuing to cover Mr R and the cost of the remedial works quoted for Mr R also says British Gas continued to cover him despite being aware of faults. But Ive 
seen cover was included for the boiler and controls, the central heating, and the plumbing 
and drainage. Even though sludge and blockages were reported as early as 2017, visits and 
repairs were still carried out under the policy after this which British Gas were responsible 
for. 
He also says the uninsured remedial works British Gas quoted for were too high and unfair. 
Although British Gas quoted for these works, ultimately it was for Mr R to consider these and 
employ his own contractors if he thought they were offering a more competitive rate. And in 
any event, these quotes were for works not covered by the policy, so I wont comment 
further on this aspect. 
Service issues 
There were service issues. British Gas say they could have identified and resolved a leak 
sooner than they did. This led to further visits which Ive no doubt would have added to Mr 
Rs frustration and disruption. 
British Gas say the delay in identifying and resolving the leak had no bearing on the boiler 
later failing  which led to Mr R being advised to replace it. Ive seen no supporting evidence 
that undermines this comment. They paid Mr R £200 compensation for the inconvenience 
and disruption this caused which I think is reasonable. 
Summary 
Overall, I havent been persuaded British Gas failed to maintain Mr Rs boiler which resulted 
in him needing to replace it. Mr R says he couldnt rent out the property whilst the boiler was 
being replaced, but because I dont think British Gas were responsible for it needing to be 
replaced, I wont be requiring them to cover Mr Rs loss of rent. 
Ive also considered the service issues set out above, and Im satisfied £200 compensation 
is fair, reasonable, and proportionate here. So, I wont be requiring British Gas to take any 
action in respect of the complaint. 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr R. But my decision ends what 
we  in attempting to resolve his dispute with British Gas  can do for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman