DRN-4119205
The complaint
Mrs S complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) wont pay for the full cost of replacing her 
windscreen following a glass claim on her motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mrs S made a claim for windscreen replacement. If she used UKIs approved supplier, it 
would cover the full cost of the replacement. But UKIs supplier wasnt able to provide a 
replacement. After three weeks, Mrs S had the windscreen replaced elsewhere. But UKI 
would only pay her £125 towards the cost as this was the policy limit when a customer used 
their own provider. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought UKI wasnt 
able to tell Mrs S when a replacement windscreen would be available from its provider. She 
thought UKI hadnt made the policy limit clear in a call with Mrs S. And so she thought UKI 
should pay Mrs S the full cost of replacing the windscreen. She thought UKIs supplier had 
reasonably paid Mrs S £100 compensation for poor communication and delays. 
UKI replied that it had made Mrs S aware that there was a policy limit if she chose to use her 
own repairer. It said the car was still driveable as there was just a small crack on the 
passenger side of the windscreen. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that Mrs Ss policy states on page 17 under Section 5: Windscreen damage" the 
following:
How much am I covered for?
if you use an approved windscreen supplier for repairs or replacement, we'll pay up to 
the market value.
if you choose a different suppler for repairs, we'll pay up to £40.
if you choose a different suppler for replacement, we'll pay up to £125."
Mrs S made her claim to UKI, but its authorised repairer didnt have a replacement available, 
and it couldnt tell Mrs S when one would be available. Mrs S waited for three weeks and 
then she had the replacement made at her dealers garage. 
UKI said the replacement wasnt needed urgently. But Mrs S has described the crack as 
about 200mm long and spreading. She was concerned about her passengers safety. And 
she decided not to use the passenger seat. I havent seen any evidence from UKI to 
contradict this, and so Im satisfied that Mrs S had cause for concern. 
UKI said there was a global shortage of replacement windscreens. But Mrs Ss garage was 
able to source one immediately. So Im not persuaded that that was the case. And I think 
UKIs repairer could have contacted the dealers garage if it had been more proactive. This 
would then have avoided the delays and the dispute. 
So, Mrs S decided to have the windscreen replaced at the dealers garage. I accept that she 
had been told by UKI that there was a policy limit of £125 for using her own garage. Mrs S 
acknowledged this in one call, saying "So I might have something to pay". And she didnt 
challenge the provider when she was told to send in the invoice, and it would then pay her 
£125. But I can understand that Mrs S may have confused the policy excess with the policys 
limits.
But whilst I accept that £125 is the policy limit for using a non-approved repairer, I dont think 
its fair and reasonable for UKI to rely on this in Mrs Ss particular circumstances. This is 
because Im satisfied that waiting three weeks for a replacement was too long and left Mrs S 
with concerns that she was unable to safely drive her car. 
Insurers have a duty to deal with claims promptly. It wasnt Mrs Ss fault that UKI couldnt 
replace her windscreen sooner. It couldnt give her a date for when this would be done. I 
think it was unfair for UKI to expect Mrs S to wait indefinitely for the replacement when she 
was concerned about the cars safety. And I think she reasonably mitigated her losses by 
having the windscreen replaced privately. 
Mrs S wouldnt have incurred costs if UKI had been able to replace her windscreen. So, to 
restore Mrs Ss position, I think UKI should cover the full cost of the replacement. From what 
I can see, its repairer has already paid Mrs S £125. And now I think UKI should pay her the 
£337 outstanding balance, subject to any policy excess. 
Putting things right
I require U K Insurance Limited to reimburse Mrs S the full cost of her windscreen 
replacement, subject to any policy excess. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require UKI 
to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman