DRN-2928693
The complaint
Mr A complains that Loans 2 Go Limited irresponsibly provided him with an 
unaffordable loan.
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided Mr A with a loan as follows:
Start date Is the loan 
paid?Number of monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountMonthly  
repayment*
4/9/2020 No 24 £1,200 £197.60
Mr A said that Loans 2 Go provided the loan without doing proper checks into his financial 
situation and the high interest rate and large amount repayable wasnt properly explained. 
Our adjudicator didnt think that Loans 2 Go should have provided the loan and 
recommended upholding Mr As complaint. 
Mr A is happy with our adjudicators recommendation. 
Loans 2 Go disagreed with our adjudicator. It mainly said:
- given the size of the loan and the payment amount it felt the checks carried out 
were proportionate
- Mr As credit report was on the whole very positive and did not indicate that 
further checks were necessary 
- Loans 2 Go worked out that the monthly repayments would be affordable for 
Mr A. 
So the complaint comes to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. 
Ive looked at the complaint afresh. 
I agree with our adjudicator. 
Ill explain why I say this.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr As complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. 
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think 
about whether there was any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about Mr As complaint.
Loans 2 Go asked Mr A about his income and expenditure and took steps to verify the 
amount of his take home pay. Loans 2 Go also did its own credit checks to see how much 
Mr A was already paying towards servicing his existing debt.
I agree with our adjudicator that Loans 2 Gos checks were reasonable and 
proportionate in the particular circumstances of this loan application. But, like the 
adjudicator, I dont think Loans 2 Go made a fair lending decision when it lent to Mr A 
based on the information it gathered.
I say this because I dont think Loans 2 Go thought carefully enough about what all the 
information it had gathered showed about Mr As overall financial situation. 
Loans 2 Go checked that Mr As minimum monthly income was £1,991.26. The credit checks 
Loans 2 Go did showed that Mr As existing credit commitments cost him around £908 a 
month. It calculated that in total Mr A spent around £1,573 each month on everything he had 
to pay.
This meant that when Mr A took out this loan, the total amount he would be paying towards 
his outstanding credit commitments each month would be around £1,105  so more than half 
of the amount of Mr As verified monthly take home pay. I think our adjudicator was right to point out that this was such a significant proportion 
of Mr As monthly income it was a clear indication that Mr A was, in reality, already 
experiencing financial difficulty. 
In addition, signing up to this loan agreement meant that Mr A would have around £62 left 
over each month after making all this monthly repayments. 
I think that Loans 2 Go should have realised this meant that Mr A was left with insufficient 
spare cash each month to cover any unforeseen costs or allow for his expenses going up  
which was likely to happen over a two year loan term. 
For these reasons, I think Loans 2 Go ought to have realised it was unlikely that Mr A would 
be able to sustainably repay his loan over the two year term and reasonably have concluded 
that it was not fair to lend to Mr A.
So, I am upholding Mr As complaint that he should not have been given the loan.
I think there was a very large amount of interest payable on this loan and I can appreciate 
that Mr A might now feel this unfairly added to his debt problems.
But the loan documents set out the terms and the amount of interest payable. Mr A applied 
for this loan and he had to actively engage in the loan application process. 
The annual percentage rate of charge (APR) on Mr As loan was 493.6% (fixed) and this was 
set out in the loan agreement he signed. The total amount Mr A had to repay (if the loan ran 
to term) was shown as £ £4,742.40. The agreement showed he would need to make 23 
payments of £197.60 and a final payment of £197.60. 
Taking everything into account, I think that Mr A was able to see that he was taking a high 
cost loan on terms he seemed happy to agree to at the time. So I cant fairly say that the 
high cost of this credit is a reason for me to uphold Mr As complaint. And as Mr A seems 
happy with the way our adjudicator recommended settling this complaint I dont think I need 
to say anything more about this. 
I havent seen anything which makes me think that Loans 2 Go acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr A in some other way. 
But as Mr A has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan 
that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of 
what Loans 2 Go did wrong. 
So, I think Loans 2 Go needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr A to repay the capital amount of £1,200 that he 
borrowed, because he had the benefit of that money. 
But he has been charged extra for a loan that should not have been provided to him. 
Loans 2 Go should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr A received as a result of being given the loan. 
The repayments Mr A made should be deducted from this amount.If this results in Mr A having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Loans 2 Go should try to arrange an 
affordable payment plan with Mr A bearing in mind the need to treat him positively 
and sympathetically if he needs further time to pay.
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr As credit file regarding the loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
should give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to take the steps set out above to put 
things right for Mr A.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.  
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman