DRN-3043356
The complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK Plc failed to open the correct account and then set up 
direct debits that he didnt recognise.
What happened
In 2016, Mr R opened an Every Day current account with Santander. He later wanted to 
transfer a large sum of money from another account and open a savings account. In 2017, a 
123 current account was opened for Mr R after a visit to a local branch. Mr R had some 
health issues around this time, which have continued to affect him.
Some years later, Mr R noticed a direct debit on the account that he didnt recognise, to a 
company Ill refer to as C. Mr Rs wife had an account with C but met the cost of this service 
from her own account held with another bank.
Mr R complained to Santander that theyd allowed unknown direct debits to operate from his 
account for several years and made it difficult to sort the issue out when he noticed it. He 
also complained that theyd opened the wrong account for him in 2017.
After investigating Mr Rs complaint, Santander decided that that they didnt need to do 
anything further. Unhappy with their response, he brought the complaint to our service for an 
independent review. 
It was looked into by one of our investigators who thought that Mr R had likely authorised the 
direct debits to C and there was no evidence of any conversation about the opening of the 
account when Mr R changed his account in 2017.
Mr R continued to disagree with the outcome but did accept that some of the later direct 
debits were authorised by him but still questioned the earlier ones to C. 
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has complained about different aspects of his relationship with Santander. The first is 
that they set up direct debits which he later didnt recognise and made it difficult for him to 
deal with the issue once he notified them about it. Also, they opened the wrong account for 
him 
Direct debits / branch difficulties
Mr R didnt recognise several direct debits that were present on his account which were 
originally set up in 2017 with C. Hes since accepted that a later direct debit from 2019, that 
was also with C was set up to pay his wifes account with C, thereby authorising it. I asked 
for further information about the earlier direct debits. The records show that in September 
2017, two direct debits in favour of C were set up  each with different account numbers. 
One was for a mobile phone account and one for a broadband account. Both were set up in 
Mr Rs name.
The usual way for these to be arranged would be for Mr R to agree that C could set up the 
direct debit for both accounts. To do that, Mr R would have had to provide C with various 
details about his 123 account, including the account name, home address, account details 
and authority to set up the direct debit.
The direct debit instruction was then received by Santander. I think its reasonable that they 
then set up the direct debit to be operated in favour of C, because Santander had received 
the appropriate instruction from C to do just that. Mr R cant remember what relationship he 
had with C at the time, but the evidence does point to some relationship with them as hes 
accepted a later direct debit was correctly set up with them, so I think its more than likely 
that the two direct debits were correctly authorised by Mr R. It then follows that Santander 
were authorised to make the payments from his account based on this authority.
When Mr R raised the issue of the unrecognised direct debits with Santander, they asked 
him to attend the branch. Mr R was unable to do this and asked for direct contact with his 
branch because hed had little success trying to call a central number. In their final response 
letter to Mr R, Santander provided a phone number for him to call to discuss the issues.
I know Mr R would have preferred to deal directly with his branch via email, but Santander 
chose to deal with his issue via a central number and I think this was a reasonable way for 
them to deal with the difficulties Mr R was facing. I appreciate this took a little time to 
organise, but this was also during the covid lockdown which caused many business and 
consumers difficulties, so I dont think the delay was unreasonable or how Santander dealt 
with the query. 
Savings Account
Mr R explained that he wanted to deposit a large sum of money into a savings account. He 
already had a current account with Santander, and he told us that he visited a branch in 
2016 to discuss the new account. Theres no record of the conversation held with Mr R and 
Santander have said that the accounts they provided were on a no advice basis. I cant say 
what was discussed at the visit by Mr R. But, the 123 account was then set up  which would 
have required Mr Rs agreement. Santander have said they provided Mr R with the terms 
and conditions of the account. Theres no specific record of Mr R receiving the terms and 
conditions, but I think it would be unusual for Santander to open a new account without fully 
explaining the terms.
The 123 account requires several different arrangements to be put in place to enable the 
account holder to make full use of it, including the receipt of cash back and the monthly 
payment of a fee. Its apparent from the account history that these conditions were met, 
including the incoming transfer every month for £500, and a minimum of two direct debits set 
up to be paid from the account. Mr R said he was ill at the time he opened the account and 
didnt understand what he was agreeing to. I asked Santander if they were aware of the 
health difficulties Mr R was going through and they dont have any record of this until several 
years later.
I appreciate that Mr R was going through a significant health problem at the time, but 
Santander werent aware of this and couldnt reasonably be expected to take this into 
account if they didnt know about it. Because the account needed additional steps to be 
made by Mr R, including the payment of a monthly fee and the direct debit arrangement with 
C, I think its more than likely that Mr R was aware of the account he was opening. Ive examined the account history to better understand how it was used, because Mr R said 
he wanted to open it as a savings account. He initially transferred a substantial amount of 
money into it, but he then transferred more than half of that out less than a month later. The 
account was then used to make direct debits, pay bills and draw down cash until it reached a 
nil balance in early 2020. 
I cant say what conversation took place at the meeting in 2016, but the account was 
operated in such a way to obtain the full rewards and was used to make bill payments and 
draw cash from, rather than how I would expect a typical way a savings account would be 
used. Because the account required several additional arrangements to be made (the 
regular monthly transfer of £500 from another account and two direct debits) to fulfil the 
rewards, it doesnt seem likely that they were set up without Mr Rs involvement and 
agreement. I appreciate he was ill at the time, but the account appears as though it was 
operated as intended and he received various financial rewards as a result of using it. 
Taking everything into account, I cant say that Santander were wrong when they opened the 
account.
Mr R complained that he had to make a monthly deposit into his account to qualify for the 
rewards from the account and Santander arranged to send the funds back to his other bank 
the same month. Mr R thought this wasnt correct. It does seem unusual for a bank to ask for 
a monthly payment to then send it back again, but I think this was to ensure Mr R complied 
with the accounts conditions and obtain the best rewards from it. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think it was unreasonable that Santander opened a 
123 account for Mr R and its more than likely he authorised the direct debits to be set up. I 
also dont think that Santander acted unreasonably when Mr R couldnt attend the branch to 
discuss the direct debits.  
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman