DRN-4316708
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited did not de-risk her funds held in her 
Section 32 pension policies in line with the agreed Lifestyle strategy. Mrs T says the value 
of her pensions dropped as a result.
What happened
In 2011, Aviva set up two separate Section 32 pension policies, ending 292/8 and 292/383,   
for Mrs T. At the time, Mrs T chose to apply its 6 Year Lifestyle investment programme. The 
aim of the Lifestyle programme was to ensure Mrs Ts PPP was invested into more cautious 
funds in the six years preceding her anticipated retirement age. The Lifestyle programme 
began in 2018, as scheduled, and was due to be completed by the time Mrs T turns 60 in 
2024. 
On 20 February 2023, Mrs T complained to Aviva that, since December 2021, the value of 
her pension ending 292 had fallen by around £52,000 and her pension ending 292/383 had 
also fallen by around £21,700. She said it looked like the majority of her funds were held in a 
fund with a 5/7 risk rating, when she thought it was agreed her pension fund would be 
moved into more cautious investments ahead of her planned retirement in 2024.
On 5 March 2023, Aviva issued its final response to Mrs Ts complaint. It also sent a further 
letter on 6 April 2023. In summary, Aviva said:
One year before Mrs Ts scheduled retirement age, her funds should be invested as follows:
17% in her chosen funds
70% in the Aviva BlackRock Over 15 Tear Gilt Index Tracker fund (risk level of 
5 out of 7, with 7 being the highest risk). Ill refer to this fund as the Gilt fund.
13% in the Aviva BlackRock Sterling Liquidity fund (risk level of 1 out of 7).
In accordance with the above strategy, Mrs Ts fund was invested as follows:
18% in the Blackrock consensus FP fund
70% in the Aviva BlackRock Over 15 Tear Gilt Index Tracker fund 
12% in the Aviva BlackRock Sterling Liquidity fund
Aviva said the drop in value of Mrs Ts funds was due to the condition of the financial 
markets, which were impacted by the Coronavirus epidemic and the war in Ukraine, which 
was outside of Avivas control. Aviva added it was responsible for administering Mrs Ts plan 
but it was not responsible for managing her plan when it came to investment decisions. And 
if it were to contact her to discuss changing her investments, it could be in breach of the 
regulators rules regarding implied financial advice.
Mrs T remained unhappy, so referred her complaint to our Service to review. Mrs T wanted 
Aviva to agree it had mis-managed her pension. She acknowledged Aviva had invested her 
funds in line the Lifestyle strategy, but the funds it was invested into were not lower risk or 
aligned with the overall de-risking objective of the Lifestyle Plan. Mrs T noted the Gilt fund, 
part of her Lifestyle plan, was increased to a 5 out of 7 risk rating after she agreed to the 
Lifestyle plan and Aviva should have informed her of its increased risk rating. To put things 
right, Mrs T wants Aviva to compensate her for the losses she experienced in 2022.
One of our Investigators reviewed Mrs Ts complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary, our 
Investigator said Aviva invested Mrs Ts funds in line with the Lifestyle investment 
programme. A large portion of Mrs Ts funds were invested in gilts (also known as bonds), 
which are usually considered to be less risky investments. The drop in value of Mrs Ts funds 
was due to the poor performance of the financial markets rather than poor management by 
Aviva. If Mrs T was concerned about the risk rating of her funds, she should seek financial 
advice. Our investigator explained Aviva were the administrators of Mrs Ts pension and 
could not provide her with financial advice, so it wasnt for Aviva to approach Mrs T to 
discuss how her funds were invested.
Mrs T disagreed, saying Aviva should have informed her it increased its risk rating of the Gilt 
fund to 5 out of 7. She said she could have acted to de-risk her pension fund and minimise 
her losses if she had been informed about this.
Our Investigator contacted Aviva, which said the Gilt fund was rated as a level 3 in 2014, 4 
in 2016 and 5 from February 2018. It did not tell its customers if a risk rating changed by 1 
 i.e., if the risk level was raised from 3 to 4. Our Investigator passed this on to Mrs T and 
explained we didnt have the power to tell Aviva to change its process. And in any event, it 
was not for Aviva to advise Mrs T on whether an investment strategy remained suitable for 
her. Mrs T remained unhappy, reiterating Avivas strategy did not de-risk her funds when the 
majority of those funds remained invested in a fund rated 5 out of 7 in the years preceding 
her retirement. So, this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint. I realise this will be very disappointing to 
Mrs T, but Ill explain my reasons.
It is not in dispute that a Lifestyle approach was chosen when Mrs T took out her PPP. 
These are designed to manage investment risks as a customers retirement age 
approaches. Generally, funds are moved over a number of years from equity-type assets 
into cash and fixed-interest assets, such as gilts. As our Investigator explained, investments 
such as gilts are, traditionally, considered to be less volatile and lower risk over the long term 
than equity assets. I note Mrs T has provided copies of a letter she was sent about the 
Lifestyle programme ahead of its activation in March 2018. The letter set out the advantages 
and disadvantages of the Lifestyle programme. It told Mrs T she could opt out of the Lifestyle 
programme if it was no longer suitable for her. The letter also said:
We cannot guarantee that the 6 Year Lifestyle investment programme will prove 
beneficial to the value of your plan We are unable to give financial advice if you 
would like advice, please contact your financial adviser.
So, I think Mrs T was made aware of the Lifestyle programme, and that it was for her to 
decide whether it remained suitable for her, before its implementation in 2018. 
It does not appear to be in dispute that Aviva invested Mrs Ts funds in line with the agreed 
allocation of funds set out in the Lifestyle approach. I note that Mrs Ts 2021 and 2022 annual statements showed the funds invested within both her pension plans were being 
rebalanced in line with the agreed proportions set out in the 6 Year Lifestyle Investment 
Programme.
I think the crux of this complaint is that Aviva invested Mrs Ts policies in funds that were 
ultimately reclassified as being higher risk and so did not de-risk her pension. The annual 
statements Mrs T has referred to in making her complaint say the Lifestyle programme is 
designed to move her investments from funds with a greater exposure to the stock market 
into more cautious investments into more cautious investments. That is what Aviva did  it 
moved the majority of Mrs Ts funds to the Gilt fund. 
I understand Mrs Ts concern about the riskiness of the funds she was transferred into as 
part of the Lifestyle approach. Aviva has clarified that prior to 2016, its risk scale ran from 1 
to 5, with 5 being the riskiest. So, in 2016, the Gilt fund was a 3 out of 5 in terms of risk. In 
2017, Aviva widened its risk scale from 1 to 7 with the Gilt fund being assessed as a 5 out of 
7. So, the risk rating of the Gilt fund has remained broadly the same since 2016 and 
remained the same from 2018, when Aviva began to implement the Lifestyle approach to 
Mrs Ts PPP. But, in any event, Aviva was not responsible for monitoring its risk ratings on 
Mrs Ts behalf or to notify her changes outside of its policy mentioned above. Only Mrs T 
could decide if her chosen investment strategy remained suitable for her  Aviva was 
responsible for applying Mrs Ts chosen investment strategy, it was not able to advise her 
whether the Lifestyle strategy remained suitable for her.  
I also note the annual statements also reminded Mrs T of the following disadvantages of the 
Lifestyle Programme:
There is no guarantee that the investment programme will prove beneficial to 
your pension fund.
The value of your investments, even in lower risk funds, can fall as well as rise 
and the value of your pension fund is not guaranteed.
Turning to Avivas responsibility to administer Mrs Ts policy in accordance with her chosen 
investment strategy, it appears Aviva applied the Lifestyle strategy as it was required to do. It 
sent Mrs T annual statements which her informed about the performance of her PPP, made 
clear which funds she was invested into and reminded her to regularly review her fund 
choices to ensure they continued to meet her needs. So, Im satisfied Aviva did what it was 
required to do in administering Mrs Ts PPP and Lifestyle programme. 
I understand Mrs Ts disappointment that her PPP has not performed as she hoped. Over 
the period of time Mrs T has complained about, unforeseeable global events meant that the 
value of gilts fell. The majority of Mrs Ts pension fund was invested in gilts in line with the 
chosen lifestyle approach. Mrs Ts unhappiness with the performance of her investments is 
not, it itself, evidence of any wrong doing by Aviva. And overall, I have seen no evidence to 
show the fall in value of Mrs Ts investments was a result of any error by Aviva. 
To summarise, I think Aviva applied Mrs Ts chosen Lifestyle strategy to her PPP. It was for 
Mrs T, or her financial adviser, to ensure her investments remained suitable for her, not 
Aviva. I do not think there is sufficient evidence to show Aviva made an error that has 
caused Mrs T a financial loss, so I have not asked Aviva to compensate Mrs T as she has 
requested.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Victoria Blackwood
Ombudsman