DRN-3171268
The complaint
Mr M says Capita Life & Pensions Regulated Services Limited (Capita Life) has lost his 
pension.
What happened
The information about what has happened in this case is thin. Mr M has been able to provide 
some documentation - but this is patchy. Hes evidences that:
- He was contributing to a Foreign & Colonial FSAVC pension in 1997. The plan 
reference was M***30*. But theres no information about when the plan was initiated 
or when contributions ended.
- The value of the plan M***30* according to a statement from the provider dated 15 
April 2000 was around £7,500. 
- On 15 July 2005 his pension provider wrote informing him that Capita Life was now 
the trustee and administrator for his pension plan and that it would now be called the 
Capita Self Invested Free Standing Additional Contribution Scheme. 
- His sister-in-law received a letter on 18 December 2014 from a business called F&C 
Investments. This noted that Capita Life had decided to close its Self-invested 
Personal Pensions (SIPP) and that these would be transferred to the James Hay 
Partnership (JHP) and its Modular iSIPP or a provider of her choice. Mr M says he 
never received such correspondence.
Mr M first contacted this Service in February 2021. Hed tried to get information from Capita 
Life about his pension but it failed to respond. In making his complaint hes told us:
My pension that Capita have lost is worth £28,500. My complaint is that as you can see 
from the letter dated 15th July 2005 Capita Personal Pension Management Limited took over 
managing my pension.
I rang them regularly and they said it was not their policy to issue annual valuations. When I 
have come now to want to consolidate my pensions they are unable to trace it. They said 
they transferred it James Hay. When I asked James Hay they have denied that that occurred 
(letter attached). As Capita did not inform me they transferred it at the time then I am inclined 
to believe James Hay.
I have not moved house since Capita originally wrote to meI want full compensation for 
the value of the pension and the distress caused by Capita losing my pension.
Capita Life eventually responded to Mr Ms enquiry in June 2021. It initially told him:
We have now investigated your enquiry and it appears you held benefits in the old F&C 
Pension Savings Plan which was an Investment Trust SIPP for retail customers  not a staff 
or institutional plan.
Although this Plan used to be administered by Capita, this changed in 2015 when Capita 
stopped administering SIPPs. At this point Capita transferred their SIPP business to James 
Hay and the plans stopped being F&C branded.
Mr M responded immediately and reported that hed already been in touch with JHP. Ive 
seen a copy of the letter from that firm dated 21 February 2021, it had said:
after carrying out a detailed search with the information you provided, we have been 
unable to match your details with any pension scheme held with our company.
I am aware that our details are often a match when searching through the Pension Tracing 
service however, quite often it is the directors of the company that held a personal pension 
with us and not the employees of the company..
Capita Life took until 14 October 2021 to respond to Mr M. It changed its position at this 
time. It said:
The Personal Pension Management Freestanding Additional Voluntary Contribution 
Scheme (subsequently known as the Capita Self Invested Freestanding Additional Voluntary 
Contribution Scheme), which included the F&C Freestanding AVC Pension, closed in April 
2016 and was formally wound up in April 2017. In advance of the closure of the scheme all 
active members were contacted and transfers made to alternative pension schemes. We 
have retained an archive of all pension scheme records for all member records that were 
active 7 years prior to April 2016. Pension records older than that have not been retained 
due to data protection considerations.
We have checked the archive and cannot find any records relating to your F&C 
Freestanding AVC pension (M***30*). This means your pension may no longer have been 
an active pension scheme by April 2009. The most likely reason given for this is that the 
pension was transferred to another provider on your request or the pension lapsed due to 
low value. In both cases you would have received further correspondence from us 
confirming the position with your pension at the time. If you have other records that indicate 
your F&C Freestanding AVC Pension continued to be active beyond April 2009 please send 
them to us and we will look into this matter further for you.
The Investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. She thought Capita Life had done enough 
to search for his pension. Mr M disagreed and so his complaint has been passed to me to 
review afresh and to provide a decision. This is the final stage of this Services process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain.
Ive seen evidence that Capita Life has conducted a search of their database to try and 
locate Mr Ms pension using some of the key details known about it. And these produced nil 
returns. Capita Life eventually explained the scheme Mr M was once part of closed in April 2016 and 
was formally wound up in April 2017. It says it kept an archive of all pension scheme records 
for all plans that were active 7 years prior to April 2016. It says pension records older than 
this were not retained due to data protection considerations.
I think Capita Life shouldve responded more quicky to Mr M. It also shouldve looked more 
thoroughly at his case at the outset. Had it done so it wouldnt then have given him the 
impression initially that it thought his plan had been transferred to JHP.
With respect to retention periods for financial services documentation, the general principle 
is that records should be retained for as long as is relevant for the purposes for which they 
are made. It seems to me given the nature of pension arrangements it is in the interests of 
firms to keep basic details such as the closure or transfer of pensions for their own risk 
management and governance interests. I dont believe the requirements of the data 
protection act are insurmountable in this regard.
Nevertheless, Capita Life is saying that it has a record of all live pensions from 2009. And 
that because Mr Ms wasnt in this archive then his pension must have either been closed or 
transferred prior to this.
Mr M is adamant he did not transfer or close his pension with Capita Life. He notes that 
given his age he wouldnt have been able to access his pot. He says his pension pot would 
now be worth more than £25,000.
Unfortunately I dont have any information about Mr Ms pension. Id observe that some 
pensions (typically those joined before 6 April 2006) have more flexibility and sometimes 
provided early access to benefits. But Mr M says that hasnt happened and Ive no reason to 
doubt him. 
Capita Life has invited Mr M to provide any further information which shows his pension was 
still in existence in 2009. He hasnt been able to do this. He says that when he rung them in 
the past and asked for information it had told him it wasnt its policy to issue annual 
valuations.
Mr M helpfully provided a copy of a letter from F&C Investments to his sister-in-law in 
December 2014, which informed her about the transfer of her plan to JHP or a provider of 
her choice. This fits with what Capita Life has said about its book of pensions. Mr M has told 
us he didnt receive such a letter.
Based on the little information available to me, I think its more likely than not Mr Ms pension 
was transferred sometime between 2005, when he was informed about Capita Life taking 
over his plan and the period immediately prior to when its database has records of all live 
pensions from 2009. This would explain why he never received a letter from F&C 
Investments in 2014 advising him about changes being made by Capita Life.
Our service is unable to assist a consumer in trying to trace a missing pension policy. There 
are other organisations which can help with this such as the Pension Tracing Service. The 
Pension Tracing Service is free and allows people to search an extensive database of 
scheme contact details. If Mr M hasnt already explored this route he should.
I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed and frustrated by my decision. But I hope he 
understands why determining this dispute between him and Capita Life is problematic. 
Certainly, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to direct Capita Life to pay Mr M the sum 
he thinks is outstanding based on the available evidence.Mr M should look again through the paperwork and communications that he retains across 
all his financial affairs (including his other pensions, bank statements etc) for further clues 
about what has happened between 2005 and 2009. If he finds further information that sheds 
more light on the status of his pension then as appropriate he can approach the relevant 
organisations again.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman