DRN-3866387
The complaint
Ms S complains about an investment she made in 2017 with Gallium Fund Solutions Limited 
(Gallium). She says she was mis-sold the investment as she understood it to be 
reasonably safe.
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
Ms S invested £11,000 into a B&G Plc 3 Year Compounding High-Yield IFISA Bond. Sales 
of this bond were dealt with by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), a separate business from 
Basset & Gold Plc (B&G plc), the issuer of the bond. BG Ltd arranged applications for 
investments in the bond, through a website it operated. And it was responsible for 
advertising/marketing the bond. Potential investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss 
the bond.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited 
(Gallium). B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 
February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Ms Ss investment in the bond
Ms S found out about the bond when she did a search on the internet, and she made the 
application online in November 2017. She had limited investment experience at the time and 
held all her assets in savings accounts and ISAs.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that 
nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day 
lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went into administration 
in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Ms S 
has not had her invested capital returned to her.
The application process
As highlighted above, Ms S has confirmed that she made the application online and I have 
seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show the 
application journey Ms S underwent. This consisted of two stages, designed to meet the 
rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to and on how to test whether the 
investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was certification, where Ms S 
was categorised as an everyday investor. The second was the appropriateness test. 
Galliums response to Ms Ss complaint
Gallium did not uphold Ms Ss complaint. It said Ms S had been given sufficient information 
and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions once Ms Ss 
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also 
considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general 
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Ms Ss complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Ms S as a restricted 
investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond for her - was 
misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules.
Ms S was given misleading information when she discussed the investment with 
representatives of BG Ltd.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Ms S wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have 
concluded that it shouldnt allow Ms S to invest. For these reasons, both 
cumulatively and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to 
compensate Ms S for the loss she has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary: 
Our findings went beyond the scope of Ms Ss complaint.
The website and marketing material was not misleading - Ms S was given sufficient 
information and risk warnings.
Regardless of label, Ms S was required to confirm that she met the requirements of a 
restricted investor and confirmed that she did. It is not fair nor reasonable to 
conclude that the use of the word everyday contributed to Ms S giving an 
incorrect declaration, and it was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration. 
The appropriateness test answers, and these confirmations were sufficient for 
Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and 
experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the 
relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Ms S made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it and did 
not choose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which warned of the 
concentration risk. So, in any event she would have proceeded with the investment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I 
have taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a 
general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory 
system (PRIN 1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 
(Communications with clients) are relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules 
restricting who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was 
appropriate for the potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 
10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I have considered the relevant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have 
considered these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for the same reasons. In summary:
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Ms S into certifying herself as 
belonging to a category to which she did not belong (a restricted investor) by 
changing the term used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the 
category as being one anyone could fall into. This was not treating Ms S fairly 
or acting in her best interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled Ms 
S, it is unlikely she would have certified herself as being a restricted investor.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not 
meet the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been 
apparent the bond was not an appropriate investment for Ms S. In the 
circumstances Ms S would either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and 
reasonably, BG Ltd should have concluded it should not promote the bond to Ms 
S.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Ms Ss complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied Ms S would either not have proceeded to make the 
investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and 
reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And so, I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium 
to compensate Ms S for her loss.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Ms 
S as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not made the investment.
I take the view that Ms S would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is 
fair and reasonable given Ms S's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Ms S fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Ms S's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
B&G Plc 3 
Year 
Compounding 
High-Yield 
IFISA BondStill exists 
but illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the 
open market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the 
actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Ms S agrees to Gallium 
taking ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take 
ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Ms S that she repays to Gallium any 
amount she may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Ms S wanted income with some growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
I consider that Ms S's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Ms S into that position. It does not mean 
that Ms S would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Ms S could have obtained from investments 
suited to her objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Ms S in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman