DRN-3343608
The complaint
Mr M has complained about DP Pensions Limited (DP Pensions).  He says that it failed to 
carry out sufficient due diligence when accepting an unsuitable investment into his SIPP  
and that as a result hes suffered financial loss.
Background
In August 2010 Mr M switched his existing personal pension to a SIPP administered by DP 
Pensions with a transfer value of £76,326.05.  On 16 September 2010 a payment of £46,500 
was made from the SIPP to invest in an off-plan overseas property investment (Harlequin).
Mr M says there were several parties involved in the transaction:
Mr W
Mr W was a social acquaintance of Mr M who initially recommended the Harlequin 
investment.  Mr W was not regulated.
Mr L/Hythe Ethical
Mr L was a regulated independent financial adviser (IFA) with Hythe Ethical.  
At the time of the acts complained about, it was authorised in relation to a number of 
activities in relation to pensions and investments  including to arrange (bring about) deals in 
investments, deal in investments as principal and establishing/operating/winding up a 
personal pensions scheme.
Mr M was introduced to Mr L by Mr W.  
DP Pensions Limited
DP Pensions is a SIPP provider and administrator that is regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). Its authorised, in relation to SIPPs, to arrange (bring about) 
deals in investments, deal in investments as principal, establish, operate or wind up a 
pension scheme and make arrangements with a view to transactions in investments.
Harlequin
The Harlequin group of companies were involved in the promotion, development and 
distribution of off-plan overseas property investments and resorts  primarily based in the 
Caribbean.  None of these companies were regulated by the FCA (or its predecessor, the 
FSA).
Harlequin Management (South East) Limited promoted the investment to UK investors, 
either directly or through a network of agents and financial advisers.  Investors could invest 
into resorts developed in the Caribbean in the hope of purchasing an individual hotel room, 
apartment, cabana or villa.
The developments failed and funds invested were not always used as intended.  In March 
2013 the Serious Fraud Office, in conjunction with the police, started investigating the 
Harlequin Group of companies.  Harlequin Management (South East) Limited subsequently 
went into administration and some senior figures involved with the companies are facing 
prosecution.
What happened
Mr M has explained that he was recommended to make an investment in Harlequin by Mr W 
who gave a presentation to him and others at his home.  Mr W wasnt an authorised adviser 
and doesnt appear to have suggested that he was. Following the presentation Mr M signed 
a contract with Harlequin and paid a £1,000 reservation fee.
It was suggested that Mr M fund the investment using his existing pension provision and 
steps took place to transfer those funds to a SIPP with DP Pensions.  There was a 30-day 
cancellation period for the transfer of Mr Ms pension into the SIPP, but by then hed already 
contractually signed up to the Harlequin contract.
Mr M was then introduced (by Mr W) to Mr L at Hythe Ethical for advice.  Mr M says that he 
thought Mr L was providing advice on his whole SIPP and investments and hadnt realised 
by the time of the meeting that the 30-day cancellation period had passed.
As part of this complaint to this Service Mr M has said:
I have since found out from [Mr L] that he was only advising me on investing the spare 
money.  At that meeting he did only discuss the spare money and made no reference to 
Harlequin other than that it might be risky.
The SIPP application form was signed and dated 9 August 2010, and it recorded that the 
Harlequin reservation fee had already been paid by then.  The SIPP was set up and the 
Harlequin investment made on 16 September 2010.
The Harlequin investment subsequently failed, and Mr M has lost a significant part of his 
pension provision.
Represented by a claims management company, Mr M raised complaint about Mr L and 
Hythe Ethical to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) about the advice he 
was given  but that claim was not upheld.
So, Mr M made a complaint to DP Pensions which was rejected.  
Unhappy with DP Pensions response Mr M referred his complaint to our Service.  One of 
our investigators looked into things but ultimately concluded the complaint should not be 
upheld.
The investigator said that DP Pensions met its regulatory obligations and carried out 
sufficient checks on Harlequin in the circumstances.  He also explained that he felt Mr M had 
already committed to making the investment and would have most likely taken his business 
to another SIPP operator if DP Pensions had declined to accept the investment.
DP Pensions accepted the investigators assessment, but Mr M did not.  He responded 
making further detailed comments which Ive considered in full but summarised below:He knew that Mr W wasnt regulated to give financial advice and that he would need 
to get advice from a regulated adviser.
He had no idea about what a SIPP was, or the risk associated with Harlequin  he 
was relying solely on the advice of Mr W and Mr L.
He thought that when meeting with Mr L it was to advise on everything including 
Harlequin  not just the extra cash in the SIPP.
He asked questions about Harlequin at the meeting but Mr L just skirted around 
them.  But Mr L did mention that he had personally invested in Harlequin and so that 
gave some reassurance.
By the time the meeting took place with Mr L it was already past the 30 days in which 
he could cancel the pensions transaction.
Mr W had mentioned he was working for Mr L around the time of these events.
Mr W was clearly being deceptive and was acting in his own self-interest given the 
commission involved.
He only went to DP Pensions for a SIPP based upon recommendation, and had it 
declined to accept his business he wouldnt have gone to another SIPP provider.
He had no recollection of signing an indemnity document  and insisted that it was 
not his signature and the document had not been witnessed as should be required.
The checks which DP Pensions did on Harlequin were not sufficient due diligence.
These types of cases need to go in front of a panel of judges to make a fairer 
assessment.
Given the time which has passed since the initial events, it is difficult to remember 
everything.
Mr M also provided reference to a previously published ombudsman decision which he says 
is very similar to his situation and was upheld by our Service.
To support his claim that the indemnity form had not been signed by him, Mr M instructed an 
export examination of the signature.  He has since recently been provided with a report 
concluding that the signature is in fact likely to have been his.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me to review 
everything afresh and decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached much the same conclusion as the investigator  and Ill explain 
why.I should start by explaining that I understand this has been a difficult and frustrating time for 
Mr M.  A substantial part of his retirement provision has been lost, and he feels badly let 
down by the parties involved.
I must be clear that in this decision, I am specifically considering the role of DP Pensions in 
the transaction.  Ive taken account of the roles and actions of Mr W and Mr L when doing 
that, but I cannot hold DP Pensions responsible for any of their acts or omissions.  Instead 
Im deciding whether DP Pensions met its obligations in accepting Mr Ms business.
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
Relevant considerations
The Principles
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance to my decision.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). And, I consider that the Principles relevant to this complaint include Principle 2, 
3 and 6 which say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems
Principle 6  Clients interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
clients and treat them fairly. 
Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The 
general notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific 
rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair 
and reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not 
treated its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of the BBA judgment including paragraph 162 
set out above, said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely 
to cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that 
they are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim 
of the Principles- based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to 
attempt to formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to 
impose general duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6.
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of Financial Services & Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA) and the approach an ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The 
judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the 
ombudsman in that complaint, which I have described above, and included the Principles 
and good industry practice at the relevant time as relevant considerations that were 
required to be taken into account.
Ive considered the High Court decision in Adams v Options SIPP. Since that decision the 
Court of Appeal has handed down its judgment following its consideration of Mr Adams 
appeal. Ive taken both judgments into account when making this decision.
I note that the Principles for Businesses did not form part of Mr Adams pleadings in his initial 
case against Options SIPP. And, HHJ Dight did not consider the application of the Principles 
to SIPP operators in his judgment in the High Court.  The Court of Appeal also gave no 
consideration to the application of the Principles to SIPP operators. So, neither of these 
judgments provide any assistance with the application of the Principles for Businesses, and 
in particular, they say nothing about how the Principles apply to an ombudsmans 
consideration of a complaint.  
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. I am therefore 
satisfied that the FCAs Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into 
account when deciding this complaint.
COBS 2.1.1R 
The rule says: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
Unlike the Principles, COBS 2.1.1R was considered by HHJ Dight in the Adams v Options 
SIPP case. Mr Adams pleaded that Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 
2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA 
(the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied 
with the best interests rule on the facts of Adams case.  
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different 
to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal did 
not so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the 
COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case). 
Overall, I am satisfied that COBS 2.1.1R remains a relevant consideration  but that it needs 
to be considered alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, and within the 
factual context of Mr Ms case.   
I note that there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by 
Mr Adams and from the issues in Mr Ms complaint.  The breaches were summarised in 
paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, as HHJ Dight noted, he was 
not asked to consider the question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept 
the store pods investment into its SIPP. The facts of the case were also different.  
So, I have considered COBS 2.1.1R - alongside the remainder of the relevant 
considerations, and within the factual context of Mr Ms case, including DP Pensions role in 
the transaction.  However, I think it is important to emphasise that I must determine this 
complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the case. And, in doing that, I am required to take into account relevant considerations 
which include: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time. This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the 
judgments in Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the 
formal pleadings in Mr Adams statement of case.  
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which 
remind SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the 
outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
I have set out below what I consider to be the key parts of the publications (although I have 
considered them in their entirety). 
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide 
advice, are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must 
pay due regard to the interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as they 
are obliged to ensure the fair treatment of their clients. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that 
a member of a pension scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer 
in terms of Principle 6 includes clients. It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to 
continuously analyse the individual risks to themselves and their clients, with 
reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the 
SIPP advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that 
SIPP operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would 
expect them to have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing 
management information, enabling them to identify possible instances of financial 
crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such instances could 
then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by contacting the member to 
confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for 
clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or 
detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of 
poor advice and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and 
circumstances of individual cases, we may take enforcement action against SIPP 
operators who do not safeguard their clients interests in this respect, with reference 
to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, 
taken from examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we 
have made to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms 
clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA website listing warning 
notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and 
clarifying respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing 
SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that 
give advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable 
SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, 
together with the intermediary that introduced the business. This would 
enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is concerned about the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the 
intermediary giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for 
advice, having this information would enhance the firms understanding of 
its clients, making the facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering 
and analyzing data regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the 
reasons for this.
The later publications
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states: This guide, originally 
published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms further guidance to help meet 
the regulatory requirements. These are not new or amended requirements, but a reminder of 
regulatory responsibilities that became a requirement in April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet 
Principle 6 and treat clients fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a 
pension scheme is a client for SIPP operators and so is a customer under 
Principle 6. It is a SIPP operators responsibility to assess its business with 
reference to our six TCF consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective 
members and SIPP operators
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators 
include the following:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing; neither the 
firm, nor its approved persons are on the list of prohibited individuals or 
cancelled firms and have a clear disciplinary history; and that the firm does 
not appear on the FCA website listings for un- authorised business warnings.
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and 
clarify the responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP 
business to a firm.
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of 
the firm, what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal 
with, the levels of business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types 
of investments they recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. 
Being satisfied that they are appropriate to deal with.
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually 
small or large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares which may be illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate 
clarification, for example from the prospective member or their adviser, if it 
has any concerns.
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation 
rights and the reasons for this.
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice 
given, as a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP 
business it administers.
Examples of good practice we have identified include:
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the 
information they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm 
with, is authentic and meets the firms procedures and are not being used to 
launder money.
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern 
relationships and clarify responsibilities for relationships with other 
professional bodies such as solicitors and accountants, and
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the 
SIPP operators have considered the additional risks involved in 
accepting business from non- regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct 
and retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and 
monitoring introducers as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for 
personal pension schemes) to help them justify their business decisions. In doing 
this SIPP operators should consider:
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by 
HMRC, or where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC 
is informed and the tax charge paid
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect 
of the introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate 
enhancing the processes that are in place in order to identify and 
mitigate any risks to the members and the scheme
having checks which may include, but are not limited to:
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, 
qualifications and skills to introduce different types of business to 
the firm, and
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing 
Companies House records, identifying connected parties 
and visiting introducers
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been independently produced and verified
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of 
benchmarks, or minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the 
minimum standard the firm is prepared to accept to either deal with 
introducers or accept investments, and
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a 
firm to decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations 
such as instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may 
breach HMRC tax- relievable investments and non-standard investments 
that have not been approved by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and 
an indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator 
might reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations 
in relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment.
Ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to 
fraudulent activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation.
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of 
assets is through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual 
agreements are correctly drawn-up and legally enforceable).
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both 
at point of purchase and subsequently.
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous 
investors have received income if expected, or that any investment 
providers are credit worthy etc).
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter are not formal 
guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the reports 
and Dear CEO letter didnt constitute formal guidance doesnt mean their importance 
should be underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses 
apply and are an indication for the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is 
treating its customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that 
respect, the publications which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators 
should be doing also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry 
practice at the time, and I am therefore satisfied it is appropriate to take them into account.
Like the ombudsman in the Berkeley Burke case, I dont think the fact that the publications 
(other than the 2009 Thematic Review Report) post-date the events that are the subject of 
this complaint mean that the examples of good industry practice they provide were not 
good practice at the time of the events. The later publications were published after the 
events subject to this complaint, but the Principles that underpin them existed throughout, 
as did the obligation to act in accordance with those Principles.
It is also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports (and the Dear CEO letter published in 2014) that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the 
recommended good industry practices into the conduct of their business already. So, 
whilst the regulators comments suggest some industry participants understanding of how 
the standards shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, it is clear 
the standards themselves had not changed.
It is important to bear in mind that the reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance gave non-
exhaustive examples of good industry practice. They did not say the suggestions given 
were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter 
notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the 
circumstances.
Its also important to keep in mind the judgments in Adams v Options did not consider the 
regulatory publications in the context of considering what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances bearing in mind various matters including the Principles (as part of the 
regulators rules) or good industry practice.
Overall, in determining this complaint I need to consider whether DP Pensions complied 
with its regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act with due skill, care and 
diligence, to take reasonable care to organise its business affairs responsibly and 
effectively, to pay due regards to the interests of its customers (in this case Mr M), to treat 
them fairly, and to act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to 
the Principles and the publications listed above to provide an indication of what DP 
Pensions could have done to comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
What did DP Pensions obligations mean in practice?
As Ive already explained, DP Pensions as the SIPP operator wasnt responsible for giving 
advice to Mr M, nor could it assess the suitability of any advice Mr M had received.  But as 
set out above, DP Pensions did have regulatory obligations to ensure Mr M was being 
treated fairly and reasonably.
In this case, the business DP Pensions was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. Im 
satisfied that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include 
deciding whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business.
I note that in Adams v Options SIPP, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case 
would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly 
and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client). HHJ Dight said at 
paragraph 148: 
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one 
has to identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the 
submissions of each of the parties that the context has an impact on the 
ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the 
context is the agreement into which the parties entered, which defined their roles and 
functions in the transaction.
In this case DP Pensions has highlighted that Mr Ms application was not introduced to it by 
a financial adviser, and that it was made on an execution-only basis.  
The information recorded in the SIPP application, under the financial adviser section, were 
Mr Ws details, however he was noted as Professional Contact rather than Mr Ms adviser.  
DP Pensions has explained that as Mr M had already paid a deposit for the Harlequin investment, it thought Mr Ws details were likely to be as a contact to complete the Harlequin 
investment.  I also note it was recorded that Mr W was not being paid any fee or commission 
in relation to the SIPP transfer  which I consider supports the view that the application was 
being made on an execution-only basis.
Mr M has told us that Mr W had expressly told him he should get financial advice  and he 
knew Mr W wasnt a regulated adviser.  Whilst I appreciate Mr M says he believed Mr L was 
giving him advice, I cant hold DP Pensions responsible for any acts or omissions in relation 
to that.
A SIPP operator is able to accept execution-only business.  But that doesnt mean that DP 
Pensions didnt have its own responsibility to ensure Mr M was being treated fairly and 
reasonably and act in Mr Ms best interests.
In paragraph 159 of the Adams judgment HHJ Dight said:
to ascertain the suitability or otherwise of the investment for the claimant himself 
the defendant would have had to make detailed enquiries about the claimant's 
financial circumstances and, in my view, take advice on the value of the investment, 
evaluate the risks inherent in and lastly make a judgment call on the question of 
whether those risks were appropriate for the claimant in the light of the information 
which they had obtained about his financial situation and appetite for risk. That was 
not the role which the parties had agreed in the contract that the defendant would 
have. COBS Rule 2.1.1 cannot, in my view, be interpreted as requiring the defendant 
to take those steps.
In my view this simply says that the obligation to act in a clients best interests set by COBS 
2.1.1R does not oblige a firm to give advice on the suitability of an investment for an 
individual investor, where the firm was not contracted to provide advice. That is consistent 
with the approach I am taking in this complaint. In this section of the judgment, the alleged 
breach of COBS 2.1.1R under consideration was taking into the SIPP what was claimed to 
be a manifestly unsuitable underlying investment, where suitability meant suitability for Mr 
Adams. The judge does not say the SIPP operator was not obliged to give any consideration 
to whether to accept or reject an application. Only that such consideration did not need to 
include the suitability of the intended investment for the individual investor. It does not follow 
from this, for example, that the SIPP operator was obliged to accept and execute the clients 
instructions in all circumstances. 
And, in my view, refusing to accept an application is not the same thing as advising Mr M on 
the merits of investing and/or switching to the SIPP  there is a difference.  
Its clear to me that DP Pensions understood obligations existed and knew it could (and 
should where appropriate) refuse to accept business.  DP Pensions has confirmed it did 
carry out checks on the business it was accepting  and in particular on the Harlequin 
investment proposition. I think its fair to assume that if DP Pensions had not been satisfied 
with the information it found as a result of the checks it carried out, it would have either 
raised any concerns with Mr M and/or declined to accept the business.
As set out above, to comply with the Principles, DP Pensions needed to conduct its business 
with due, skill, care and diligence; organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively; 
and pay due regard to the interests of its clients (including Mr M) and treat them fairly. Its 
obligations and duties in this respect were not prescriptive and depended on the nature of 
the circumstances, information and events on an ongoing basis.I appreciate theres now a current widespread knowledge of the failings with Harlequin and 
its business model  and Im aware the Serious Fraud Office has charged the chairman of 
Harlequin with three counts of fraud and proceedings are ongoing.  But Its important to be 
clear that Im considering what the position was and what due diligence was completed by 
DP Pensions at the time in accepted Mr Ms business in 2010.
Harlequin was a property investment, but the nature and structure of the investment was 
undoubtedly high-risk and esoteric, and so wouldnt be suitable for many consumers.  But as 
Ive already explained, DP Pensions role was not to assess its suitability for Mr M.  Instead it 
had to ensure there were no concerns with the investment itself and that it was acting in Mr 
Ms best interests.
At the time Mr M invested, Harlequin had been operating for a couple of years and was 
developing other resorts. It appeared to have garnered the support of local politicians in 
resort destinations and received endorsements. Ive not seen any evidence from the time to 
show there were credible causes for concerns being voiced in the public domain.
DP Pensions carried out initial basic checks into Harlequin, which included reviewing the 
most recent annual return and company accounts filed at Companies House. It also obtained 
a report on Harlequin from an independent company search and credit reference agency.  In 
doing this it also checked that the investment was HMRC complaint and capable of being 
held in a SIPP.
Importantly, I note DP Pensions also sought assurance that Harlequin held title to the 
overseas land which was to be developed.  I think it is reasonable to say DP Pensions could 
have taken some comfort from those checks and assurances  but I also feel that it could 
have done more.
The total purchase price for the investment was £155,000 and Mr M was paying a total 
deposit of £47,500 (including the £1,000 reservation fee hed already paid personally before 
the SIPP was set up). The balance of the contract price was to be made in stages at 
different points of the developments completion. So, DP Pensions could have asked more 
about how Mr M was planning to fund those payments and highlighted the risks associated 
with that.
But in this case, I believe its likely that Mr M would have given assurances to DP Pensions 
and gone ahead with the Harlequin investment even if more questions were asked. Mr M 
had already paid a reservation fee for the investment before receiving any advice, and he 
was clearly sold on the Harlequin opportunity based upon Mr Ws presentation. This would 
have been reinforced by the knowledge that Mr W and Mr L had invested personally also.
In the course of the SIPP application Mr M was asked by DP Pensions to sign an indemnity 
which stated that he was solely responsible for all decisions relating to the purchase, 
retention and sale of investments held in the plan. I dont think its fair and reasonable for 
DP Pensions to rely on that indemnity at the exclusion of its own obligations.  Mr M has also 
raised concerns about whether the indemnity is agreed by his signature.  But considering 
everything in the round, I dont think thats a key issue here  as Ive already concluded that 
Mr M would have gone ahead irrespective.
Given my conclusions I cant say it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Ms complaint 
against DP Pensions.
I realise Mr M is likely to be disappointed with my conclusion, but I must assure him Ive 
considered everything impartially, afresh and in full. I do recognise that Mr M has lost a 
substantial amount of his pension provision, and appreciate hes been badly let down.  But the loss hes suffered resulted from the advice and information he was provided by other 
parties  and Im not persuaded in this case it would be fair and reasonable to say DP 
Pensions is responsible.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against DP Pensions Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Ross Hammond
Ombudsman