DRN-2323059
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Collingwood Insurance Company Ltd refused to indemnify his claim 
following a road traffic accident.
Reference to Collingwood includes their agents for ease 
What happened
Mr S says that he left his car with a garage to carry out a service. The vehicle was involved 
in a road traffic accident on 30 June 2018. Mr S says that at the time of the accident the car 
was with the garage for the service and he was not the driver. 
Collingwood have said that due to Mr Ss lack of cooperation with its investigation it 
cancelled the policy, and indemnity for the third party was refused under the terms of the 
insurance policy. In addition Collingwood sought to recover its costs from Mr S directly; a 
sum of over £24,000.
Mr S complained to Collingwood who did not uphold the complaint. Mr S referred his 
complaint to this service and our investigator looked into things for him. The investigator 
upheld Mr Ss complaint and felt that Collingwood could not cancel the policy in reliance on 
the non-cooperation clause.. 
Collingwood asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint on the basis that Mr S has 
provided at least five different addresses for the garage, has not provided evidence of the 
work carried out on his vehicle, has not provided evidence of who had access to his vehicle, 
and has failed to cooperate with Collingwood throughout the process. Therefore this matter 
has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold this complaint. I have explained my reasons below.
It is important to explain that my role here is to look at whether Collingwood acted in a fair 
and reasonable manner and within the terms and conditions of the policy in their handling of 
the claim.  
Collingwood have provided me with a detailed timeline of events to explain why it has 
declined Mr S insurance and refused to indemnify him for the claim. I have separated these 
with headings for ease. 
Lack of cooperation 
Mr Ss policy states that a condition of the insurance is that Mr S provides us with 
cooperation and assistance. Collingwood have said that Mr S did not cooperate with them 
and therefore it refused to indemnify the claim and cancelled his insurance. Mr S has 
explained that he was out of the country towards the end of 2018 following the death of two 
close family members and that when Collingwood were trying to make an appointment to 
speak to him he was finding it difficult to arrange due to his work schedule. I think its likely 
that Mr S would have met with the agent to give his version of events since it was in his 
interests to do so and indeed I note that after some time he did so.
I have seen an internal email that says it should refuse to indemnify Mr S on the basis of 
non-cooperation. Collingwood have failed to note it had an incorrect telephone number for 
Mr S on its system. So attempts to contact Mr S initially failed because the contact number 
was incorrect. There is a note within the file that states I suspect this number has been 
added to the claims system as the policyholders and therefore the waters have been 
muddied a little here as our instruction to our agents detailed the repairers contact 
telephone number as our policyholders so its no wonder that he did not respond. The claims 
department will need to take full responsibility here. 
Collingwoods agent had some difficulty in trying to speak with Mr S partly due to the 
telephone number issue detailed above and partly due to Mr S saying that he found it difficult 
to meet with the agent due to his work. But as noted above, Mr S did eventually speak to 
another agent when a suitable appointment could be made. 
I can see from the file that Mr S contacted Collingwood on a number of occasions. I have 
listened to the calls that were provided to me by Collingwood. In those calls I think its clear 
that Mr S is trying to ascertain what he needs to do in order to cooperate with Collingwood. 
Mr S explained that due to a death in the family he was out of the country for some time. 
Unfortunately whilst he was abroad another family member passed away and so he was 
away for longer than he expected. Mr S also confirmed that he had some health issues. He 
had two major surgeries in February and July 2019 and was on crutches following knee 
surgery. Mr S has provided documentary evidence to support this. Collingwood were made 
aware that Mr S had been away for some months in 2018 into 2019 and therefore letters 
from Collingwood sent to Mr S during this time went unread and unactioned. This goes some 
way to explain why Mr S may have appeared uncooperative. 
No evidence of who had access to the vehicle 
Mr S provided Collingwood with the name and telephone number of the person who was 
driving the car at the time of the accident. During one call a telephone operative from 
Collingwood spoke to the garage owner who was driving the vehicle at the time of the 
accident who confirms that Collingwood made no attempt to speak to him about the incident. 
The telephone operative takes the garage owners telephone number but I cant see any 
evidence that this was followed up by Collingwood. 
Evidence of work carried out to vehicle 
Mr S has advised that he does not have a receipt for the work since he paid cash and no 
invoice was provided. When Mr S explained this to the telephone operative at Collingwood 
but was not advised at that stage that he would need to provide any further evidence of the 
garage, or precisely what repairs were carried out to the vehicle. Mr S was told that if he 
gave Collingwood all the information that it had requested to the best of his knowledge it 
could then go to the underwriters and explain that he has been cooperating. I believe that Mr 
S did cooperate with Collingwood to the best of his abilities believing that this would mean 
that Collingwood would deal with this claim. Collingwood maintain that the indemnity was 
refused because of Mr Ss refusal to cooperate with them however the evidence described gives a different reason and seems to show that Collingwoods refusal to indemnify the claim 
could not be overturned despite assurances to Mr S that it could. 
I have seen an email from Collingwoods underwriters that says Please maintain the refusal 
of indemnity. At the very least if the PH vehicle was being driven by somebody else then it 
isnt covered under our Policy. However the general exception for any liability, loss or 
damage by those not included on the certificate of insurance does not apply if the insured 
vehicle is in the custody of a garage for repair or servicing. Mr S has repeatedly confirmed 
that his car had been left with the garage for a service. As far as Mr S was concerned the car 
was with a member of the motor trade. So I dont currently think the circumstances here 
should mean that he shouldnt have the benefit of insurance. I note that Collingwood 
subsequently asked Mr S if he was prepared to report the matter to the police, but this 
wasnt until January 2020.
When considering the issues raised by Mr S I carefully looked at all the evidence and 
submissions provided to me. I dont think Mr S has been treated fairly during the course of 
Collingwoods investigation. Initially Collingwood had an incorrect contact number for Mr S, 
then it argued that Mr S was being uncooperative. When Mr S spoke to Collingwood to 
ascertain what information it required in order to indemnify the claim he went out and 
obtained that information; the new address for the garage owner and arranged for the 
garage owner to speak to Collingwood directly. Collingwood did not undertake any further 
enquiries with the garage owner and then changed its reason for not indemnifying the claim 
even where its clear, I believe, that Mr S had been cooperating.
Five different addresses for the garage
I can see from the evidence provided that Collingwood was provided with a number of 
different addresses for the garage where Mr S left his car. The incident occurred in June 
2018 and Collingwood were unable to locate the garage at the address provided by Mr S. 
Further enquiries were made by Collingwood and its clear that it did take steps to locate the 
correct garage. I dont think the fact that Mr S was unable to recollect the address of the 
garage means that he shouldnt have the benefit of insurance. Mr S gave Collingwood a 
number of addresses and did eventually locate the garage owner. I dont think Mr S can be 
held responsible for the actions of the garage owner. 
Putting things right
Collingwood Insurance Company Ltd should consider Mr Ss claim under the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy. For the avoidance of doubt it cannot rely on the non-
cooperation clause.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman