DRN-2392296
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NVs decision not to
offer renewal of her personal accident insurance policy.
What happened
In 1995, Mrs M took out a personal accident insurance policy with CIGNA. The policy would
provide a lump sum benefit in the event that Mrs M suffered an accidental injury which
resulted in permanent disability, hospitalisation or death. The policy renewed in June each
year.
In November 2019, CIGNA write to Mrs M to explain it was withdrawing from this particular
market and therefore it would not be able to renew her policy when the current term came to
an end in June 2020.
Mrs M complained to CIGNA. However, it explained that this was a commercial decision it
had made which affected all policyholders and not just her. It said it had given her adequate
notice so she could seek alternative cover if she wished.
Mrs M was unhappy at CIGNAs response. She referred her complaint to us. She said that
she was 64 years old and still working, so still in need of cover. She said it would cost her
significantly more to obtain the same level of cover she currently held with CIGNA. She
considered it was unfair for it to withdraw the policy after she had held it for so long.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold the complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
The policy is renewable each year. The terms of the policy explain that CIGNA will provide
cover as described for the twelve month period of the policy. There is no promise that the
policy will continue to renew indefinitely.
CIGNA made the commercial decision to withdraw from the personal accident insurance
market. I am satisfied that it was entitled to do this. It was a decision which affected all its
policyholders. It is not obliged to continue to offer cover to Mrs M.
CIGNA wrote to Mrs M more than six months before her policy was due to end. It explained
that it was doing this so she had sufficient time to find cover from an alternative provider
should she wish. It also offered advice on how to find an alternative provider. I consider this
was reasonable. I see no reason why Mrs M shouldnt have been able to take out cover with
an alternative provider.
The investigator thought that if Mrs M had understood that CIGNA might withdraw from the
market, she would have sought alternative cover sooner. But if she merely switched to
another annually renewable policy from another provider, she would have still faced the
possibility that this might be discontinued at some point. So I dont consider this to be a
relevant argument.
Mrs M says she has been left having to pay more for her cover. She hasnt provided any
evidence to this effect. But even if she does have to pay more, I dont consider that this
means shes been treated unfairly.
While I sympathise with Mrs M who had expected that her policy would continue until she
was at least 67, I cant reasonably conclude that CIGNA has done anything wrong.
I invited both parties to comment on my provisional decision.
CIGNA accepted my decision. Mrs M didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that CIGNA accepted my provisional decision and Mrs M didnt respond, I see no 
reason to change my provisional decision. I consider that CIGNA has done nothing wrong in 
this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given in my provisional decision and above, my final decision is that I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020. 
David Poley
Ombudsman