DRN-3868125
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with the service provided to him by an appointed representative of Sense 
Network Limited trading as Sense (Sense). He feels Sense should have advised him to 
invest in his existing lower cost stakeholder pension instead of his more expensive pension 
fund withdrawal plan when it took over as his adviser in 2008/2009. He is also unhappy with 
the offer Sense have made to resolve the matter. 
What happened
Mr J was previously receiving advice from an adviser who became an appointed 
representative of Sense in 2008. Prior to this, Mr J was advised to transfer his occupational 
pension scheme benefits to a pension fund withdrawal plan (Plan A) in 2006. He also had a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP), Plan B, with the same provider and a stakeholder 
pension with a different provider (Plan C). 
In February 2019 Mr J transferred the benefits of both Plan A and Plan B to a different 
provider.
In 2020, Mr J complained about the transfer advice he received in 2006 to his advisers 
former company. This complaint was upheld, and this company was required to redress the 
losses sustained as a result of the transfer until April 2008, when Mr J followed his adviser to 
Sense and this companys liability ceased.
Mr J subsequently complained to Sense that he was not told to invest in the less expensive 
Plan C (his stakeholder plan) and so he maintained the more expensive Plan A, causing him 
a financial loss. Mr J has not complained about any services relating to Plan B, his SIPP.
Sense looked into Mr Js concerns and upheld his complaint. The final response letter said 
that Sense felt that there was insufficient evidence available to justify the recommendation 
to invest into a higher priced self-invested personal pension Scheme. Sense offered redress 
on a charges-only basis, calculated as £5,554.31. 
Unhappy with this offer Mr J brought his complaint to this Service for an independent review. 
One of our investigators looked into things and clarified with Sense that M J wasnt 
complaining about his SIPP. Sense responded that it upheld the complaint on the basis that 
a lower cost option could have been arranged for Mr J as part of the ongoing services it 
provided. It did not agree that it gave unsuitable advice or that it was responsible for any 
investment loss. The redress calculation was based on the charges applicable to both Plan 
A and Plan B, even though Plan B was not part of the complaint. 
The investigator concluded from the evidence shed been provided that there was no service 
agreement in place for formal advice and that no positive advice had been provided to Mr J 
by Sense. She also didnt think that Plan A was unsuitable for Mr J simply because it was 
more expensive. So the investigator said the offer, based on the excess charges, was 
reasonable and more than wed be recommending here in the circumstances, especially 
since it included the charges for the Plan B which wasnt part of Mr Js complaint. 
Mr J didnt accept this view as he thought redress should include any losses resulting from 
his investments during this time. He thought a comparison should be made against a 
notional fund value or a suitable benchmark. 
Sense responded that it was unclear how Mr J feels he should be compensated for 
investment loss instead of charges as he selected many of the funds himself. Sense also 
reiterated that it didnt believe the underlying investments were unsuitable, only that similar 
funds could have been selected in a lower charging structured product. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Js complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator and for the reasons shes explained. Ive not 
seen evidence that persuades me that advice was sought and provided at this time, so Im 
not able to conclude that Sense are responsible for an investment loss suffered by Mr J. 
Nevertheless, Sense have agreed that it should have advised Mr J of less expensive 
products to invest through, though it maintained the investments themselves were suitable. 
So to put things right, Sense offered to refund the excess charges Mr J paid on both his 
pension withdrawal plan and SIPP.
Ive considered this offer and I conclude that it is fair to award compensation on a charges-
only basis in this case. This is because Ive seen insufficient evidence that Mr J would have 
invested differently if he had a less expensive arrangement. Im also unable to conclude, 
based on the evidenced Ive been provided, that Sense should have advised him to invest 
differently. Ive seen no formal service agreement in place showing that Sense has agreed to 
provide this kind of service and Ive seen no evidence that this advice was sought by Mr J or 
provided by his adviser after he became an appointed representative of Sense. 
Had Mr J wanted this service, Sense could have provided it, but it is important to note that 
comprehensive financial advice like this would have been provided at an additional cost to 
Mr J. The ongoing service he received was included in fees Mr J was already paying. But 
again, Ive seen nothing that persuades me Mr J sought such advice or that Sense agreed to 
provide it, so I dont need to decide if this advice was appropriate.  
Given this, Senses offer to refund the excess charges to Mr J is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. So on the basis that Sense pay Mr J the amount it has offered him, I am not 
asking it to do anything more to put right Mr Js complaint. 
My final decision
Sense Network Limited trading as Sense has already made an offer to pay £5,554.31 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. 
So my final decision is that Sense Network Limited trading as Sense should pay Mr J 
£5,554,31.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Jennifer Wood
Ombudsman