DRN-2332740
The complaint
Mr E complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited has declined his home insurance claim for 
damage sustained to a retaining wall in his garden. 
What happened
In March 2020 Mr Es neighbour alerted him to the fact that there was some damage to the 
retaining wall in his garden; the wall was showing signs of cracking from the neighbours side 
and was leaning into her garden. Mr E thought that the damage had been caused by recent 
storm conditions so he made a claim to Tesco for storm damage. 
Tesco appointed a surveyor to visit and inspect the damage. The surveyor reported to Tesco 
that it wasnt clear whatd caused the damage but it seemed to be that no weep holes had 
been installed in the wall to allow for excess moisture from the earth behind the wall to drain 
away. It noted that there was algae growing in the cracks indicating the damage had been 
ongoing for some time. And  it reported that the neighbour had said the cracking had first 
started to appear the previous summer but had widened following the recent storms. The 
surveyor thought that further investigations were needed because it looked like the wall had 
failed due to poor design for which the claim should be declined.
Mr E disputed that to be the case and told the surveyor that he was sure weep holes had 
been installed when the wall was first built. He went around to the neighbours house and 
noted that the entire wall had been rendered, covering up any weep holes in the process. He 
also noted that a concrete patio had been built up also covering the weep holes, rendering 
them redundant.
Mr E complained to Tesco. Tesco looked into Mr Es complaint but didnt change its mind 
about the claim. It said if Mr E wanted to get his own surveyors report then he could and it 
would consider it. 
Mr E instructed his own surveyor to look at the wall and he sent the report to Tesco in May 
2020. The report said that the failure was likely due to the wall being overburdened by 
hydrostatic pressure and noted the heavy rainfall in the summer an Autumn of 2019. Mr E 
said to Tesco that as his report showed that the damage had been caused by rainfall, his 
claim should be considered to be a genuine one. 
Tesco instructed a loss adjuster to consider liability who in turn appointed another surveyor 
to inspect the damage. The new surveyor attended at the start of June and spoke to both   
Mr E and the neighbour concluding, following an inspection, that the wall had failed due to a 
build-up of hydrostatic pressure which the wall was unable to withstand. The surveyor noted 
that weep holes had been included in the design but that the previous occupant of the 
neighbours house had rendered the wall, blocking the holes in the process, and had raised 
the ground in front of the wall. The surveyor thought the modifications had affected the walls 
performance particularly its ability to discharge moisture in the ground behind it, the failure 
having occurred after two months of very heavy rainfall. 
The loss adjuster considered what the surveyor had said and reported to Tesco that the 
failure of the wall didnt appear to be as a result of any of the standard perils the policy 
covered  in particular storm and flood. The loss adjuster also thought about whether the 
claim could be covered by the additional accidental damage to buildings cover Mr E had on 
his policy but didnt think it could because the policy required such damage to occur 
suddenly and unexpectedly. As the damage had occurred gradually, that too was excluded 
under the policy. 
The loss adjuster notified Mr E that his claim was being declined on the grounds that the 
damage hadnt been caused by any of the perils listed in the policy nor did it fall within the 
scope of accidental damage cover. 
Mr E then brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into his complaint but 
didnt think Tesco had reached an unfair or unreasonable decision about Mr Es claim so he 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr E disagreed with our investigators findings 
and the complaint was passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by a home insurance policy. If it was then 
insurance policies would be prohibitively expensive. Only damage caused by one of the 
insured perils (or, events) listed in the policy  fire, storm, flood, escape of water, accidental 
damage etc.  is covered. If a policyholder can show that the damage he or she is claiming 
for is caused by one of the policy perils then the insurer must pay the claim unless the 
insurer can rely one of the policy exclusions to defeat it.  
I can see that in addition to the standard buildings and contents cover, Mr E chose to include 
the optional additional accidental damage cover as part of his policy. That means damage 
that happens to Mr Es buildings accidentally is covered by the policy. 
But within the policy terms (which along with the policy schedule and statement of fact forms 
the basis of the contract between Mr E and Tesco) certain words have specific meanings. 
These are set out in the definitions section. Accidental damage means: sudden, unexpected 
physical damage which has not been caused deliberately. In order for Tesco to accept the 
claim, Mr E has to show that the damage was sudden, unexpected and not caused 
deliberately. If he can do so then Tesco must pay the claim (unless it could apply a policy 
exclusion to defeat it). 
But Tesco says Mr E hasnt been able to show the damage was caused in this way. And, 
having taken all the evidence into account, I dont think that was an unfair conclusion for it to 
have reached. Tescos original surveyor reported the damage to be ongoing for some time 
as evidenced by the neighbours comments and the presence of algae; Mr Es own surveyor 
said the damage was due to the wall being overburdened as a result of heavy rainfall the 
previous summer and, Tescos second surveyor said the wall had failed due to a build-up of 
hydrostatic pressure caused by the lack of weep holes.
Unfortunately, none of the evidence Ive referred to above can be classed as happening 
suddenly as required by the policy terms. Tesco has declined Mr Es claim because it didnt 
fall within the scope of accidental damage as defined in the policy. And, for the reasons Ive 
given, I dont think taking all the evidence into account, that was an unreasonable decision 
for it to have reached. Tesco has also said the damage doesnt fall within any of the standard perils listed in the 
policy and I would have to agree. The perils most likely to apply would be either storm or 
flood. But looking again at the policy terms they state that damage for either, that doesnt 
arise from a single identifiable event, isnt covered. As theres no evidence of any single 
identifiable storm or flood that caused the damage Mr E has claimed for, I dont think that 
Tesco unfairly concluded that the damage wasnt covered by either of these perils. I cant 
reasonably ignore the evidence which indicates the damage occurred over time, not from a 
single identifiable event. And the heavy rainfall Mr E has referred to as causing the damage 
isnt something his policy covers him for because its not a one-off storm event 
I appreciate Mr E will be disappointed with my findings and I know that the cost of repairing 
the wall is significant. But I cant fairly make Tesco pay for damage it has no contractual 
liability for.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020. 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman