DRN-3665189
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with how Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, responded 
after a payment he made failed.
What happened
Mr S made a payment of £4,258.65 on 31 December 2021 using Tesco Banks pay by bank 
function on its website. He spoke to Tesco Bank on 4 January 2022 and discovered the 
payment had not reached his credit card account. It had also not debited his third-party bank 
account.  
Mr S says he was sent a one time passcode (OTP) by his bank and then received a 
confirmation message that the payment had been successful. So he wanted Tesco Bank to 
investigate explain what had happened, as he was concerned he might have been a victim 
of a scam. He is unhappy with how Tesco handled this request, and his subsequent 
complaint.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. Two assessments were issued, I will 
summarise the most recent as that is the current view from this service. The second 
investigator said there was no evidence Tesco Bank had done anything wrong with regards 
the processing of the payment, so he had no grounds to instruct Tesco Bank to investigate 
further. It had offered £25 as a gesture of goodwill to recognise that Mr S had to spend time 
calling it and couldnt always get through.  Our investigator felt this was fair  he 
acknowledged there were a number of emails between the parties and this frustrated Mr S, 
but he said these were a reasonable part of Tescos investigation. Raising a complaint can 
take time and cause worry, but this is not something we would award compensation for.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr S asked for an ombudsmans review. He said, in 
summary, if he makes an online payment he expects it to go through, and he still has no 
idea why it didnt. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is inconclusive or incomplete I have reached my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words, based on what I think is most likely given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why but first I want to 
address a comment he made about our starting point. As an independent and impartial
organisation we do not act on behalf of banks or consumers: it is not in our interest to find in
favour of one party over the other.
I understand that Mr S is frustrated as he feels he has been given no explanation as to what 
happened to the payment he initiated on 31 December 2021. However, what I have to 
decide is if the evidence shows Tesco Bank made an error that resulted in the payment 
failure. And if it should have done more when Mr S asked for an explanation.
I have not found evidence of any failings on Tesco Banks part with regards the payment 
processing. Mr S has told us that after he entered the OTP from his bank there was a 
confirmation message that the payment had gone through. He has sent in the OTP text, but 
reasonably has no record of the confirmation message. So whilst Mr S is clear that he 
completed the transaction, from what the bank has submitted Im satisfied it did not reach 
Tesco Banks system. It therefore seems reasonable there is little it can do to explain why. I 
have also seen no evidence that the transaction debited Mr Ss bank account. It is possible 
the problem lay with Mr Ss bank not completing the payment, but I cannot make a certain 
conclusion on that as it is not party to this complaint and so has not submitted evidence. So, 
on balance, given the available evidence I cant fairly conclude Tesco Bank was at fault, or 
that it should have done more to investigate.
Mr S also says he was worried he may have been the victim of a scam, but from the contact 
notes it seems Tesco Bank effectively reassured him this was unlikely given he had to 
provide his password, and Mr S agreed. In addition no money had debited his bank account.
I accept Mr S had to spend time providing Tesco Bank with information relating to the 
transaction, but this was unavoidable in the circumstances. The bank was trying to look into 
the issue as Mr S had requested. I note it also put an interest waiver on his account whilst it 
tried to find out what had happened. 
Tesco Bank offered £25 to recognise, and apologise for, the inconvenience of Mr Ss 
multiple call attempts. I find this to be fair and given I have not found Tesco Bank did 
anything wrong with regards Mr Ss payment I have no reason to increase the award. I will 
leave it with Mr S to decide if he wishes to accept this payment, he should contact Tesco 
Bank directly to let it know.
I cant comment further on Tesco Banks complaint handling as that is not a regulated 
activity, so we have no powers to review it.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman