DRN-3843834
The complaint
Mr H complains that Erudio Student Loans limited unfairly declined a deferment application 
and terminated his loan agreement.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr H had a student loan with Erudio. In April 2021 Mr H submitted income evidence by way 
of payslips as part of a deferment application. Erudio calculated an average gross income 
figure across the three months and says Mr Hs income was over the £30,646 deferment
threshold. As a result, the application was declined and Mr Hs student loan payments 
became due from the end of May 2021.
No payments were made and arrears accrued on Mr Hs account. A notice of default was 
sent to Mr H in August 2021 asking him to clear the arrears by 13 September 2021.
Mr H spoke with Erudio on 13 September 2021 and asked questions about the deferment 
income threshold. Erudio agreed to consider another deferment application using the new 
deferment threshold figures before it terminated Mr Hs loan agreement. Mr H forwarded 
details of his income along with payslips for June, July and August 2021. The payslips 
included information about the total income Mr H had earned in the tax year along with his 
gross monthly income. They also showed that in July 2021 Mr H had received a bonus.
The loan remained open and Erudio assessed the application on 14 September 2021. It 
says it calculates the gross income by taking an average of the income received as shown in 
the three monthly payslips provided. Using this method, Erudio said Mr Hs income was just 
over the £36,284 deferment income threshold. Erudio didnt contact Mr H to ask about his 
bonus income. Erudio sent Mr H a letter confirming it had declined the application and 
another letter to say it had terminated his student loan on 14 September 2021. As a result, 
Mr H is now unable to defer future  payments or qualify for an age related write off.
Mr H complained but Erudio didnt agree it had acted unfairly or made mistakes in the way it 
calculated his income or closed his loan. An investigator at this service looked at Mr Hs 
case and said they thought Erudio had dealt with it fairly.
Mr H responded and said the way Erudio had taken his bonus income was wrong. Mr H 
provided a copy of his P60 for the tax year 2021 that showed his income was in fact lower 
than the deferment threshold. And Mr H also said he was concerned the April 2021 
deferment application was unfairly declined as well. As Mr H asked to appeal, his complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached a different view to the investigator. I take Erudios point that Mr H wasnt in 
regular contact about the arrears on his loan until a very late stage in the collections 
process. But I think its fair to note that Erudio agreed to consider another deferment 
application from Mr H when he called on 13 September 2021. The loan remained open so 
Erudio could look at the application. Given this was a make or break moment for the loan, Id 
have expected Erudio to take particular care when assessing the deferment application it 
received. Im not persuaded it did that. Ill explain why.
I first want to talk about the April 2021 deferment application. Mr H has recently said his 
income evidence shows he earned less than the £30,646 threshold. But I havent found 
evidence of mistakes. Erudios forwarded Mr Hs payslips from the months preceding his 
application. They show a steady monthly income. When calculated on an annual basis the 
payslips indicate Mr H earned slightly more than the deferment threshold. Im satisfied that 
application was fairly assessed and declined by Erudio.
However, the threshold changed on 1 September 2021. At this point Mr H was over three 
months in arrears. But the threshold changed from £30,646 to £36,284 and Erudio agreed to 
consider another deferment application on that basis. As Ive said above, Im aware Mr H 
was in arrears at this stage, but Erudio still needed to give his application a fair review.
The way Erudio used Mr Hs bonus was ultimately the difference between whether the 
application was approved or not. Erudio says it doesnt assume bonus income received is 
annual and normally takes an average over the payslips it receives. But Erudios also 
confirmed it wouldve used a pro rata annual figure if itd been aware this was an annual 
bonus. Using the annualised bonus method to calculate Mr Hs income, it falls just below the 
deferment threshold. Had Erudio taken Mr Hs bonus as being paid annually, his deferment 
application would most likely have been approved. In my view, this wouldve been a fairer 
approach in Mr Hs case.
I note Erudio says Mr H didnt make the nature of his bonus clear on the application. Whilst 
that may be the case, Erudio couldve asked. And I think that wouldve been a fairer 
approach, especially given the consequences of the application being declined. Erudio 
couldve contacted Mr H. I also think its wrong to say Erudio had no indication of the 
frequency of bonus payments. Mr Hs payslips show year to date earnings. And its a simple 
process to review them and see he wasnt receiving quarterly bonuses. Im satisfied there 
was sufficient information on file for Erudio to have sought to check with Mr H before moving 
to decline the deferment application. I think its fair to note Mr H forwarded a copy of his P60 
which shows his income for the period in question did fall below the deferment threshold. In 
my view, this adds weight to Mr Hs argument that his loan was unfairly terminated.
Erudio has a policy whereby it can backdate a deferment by up to three months. So if Mr Hs 
application had been approved in September 2021 it couldve been backdated by three 
months, reducing the arrears figure. I havent seen anything that shows why this wouldnt 
have been a fair option for Mr H. So I also intend to tell Erudio to backdate the deferment by 
three months.
The consequences of terminating the loan have been significant as Mr H is no longer able to 
defer or qualify for an age related write off. That doesnt feel like a fair resolution to Mr Hs 
situation. Based on the information Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr Hs complaint and 
tell Erudio to take steps to reinstate the loan, back date the deferment for 2021 and provide 
some guidance and support to Mr H.
I can see this issue has been ongoing for a long time and Mr H has told us how distressing 
its been. I think Erudio unfairly terminated the loan agreement and caused an unreasonable level of distress and inconvenience. So I also intend to tell Erudio to compensate Mr H for 
the trouble and upset caused by paying him £300.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or points they wanted to make 
before I made my final decision. Mr H confirmed he had nothing further to add. We didnt 
hear back from Erudio. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information, I seen no reason to change the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld, for the 
same reasons. 
Putting things right
To resolve Mr Hs complaint Erudio should do the following:
- Reinstate Mr Hs student loan accounts and rewind them to the position they were in 
prior to termination
- Retrospectively approve the deferment application as of 14 September 2021
- Backdate the deferment by three months and recalculate the arrears
- Within four weeks of acceptance, contact Mr H with a view to completing a deferment 
application for 2022
- Within four weeks of acceptance, contact Mr H with a view to discussing 
arrangements to clear the remaining arrears
- Pay Mr H £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Erudio Student Loans Limited to 
settle in line with the above guidance. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman