DRN-3920673
The complaint
The trustees of T, comprised of Mr F and another, complain about Antrams Financial 
Services LLP, referred to as Antrams or the business. 
In summary, they say Antrams gave unsuitable investment advice in 2008 when they were 
advised to invest in an investment bond. They say the advice wasnt suitable because they 
had tax implications that they werent expecting. 
What happened
In December 2001, a trust was created following the death of Mr Fs wife (Mrs F), on terms 
set out in her Will. It was a discretionary trust, with their children and their offspring named 
as beneficiaries.  
Mr F was (and still is) named as one of the trustees, the other was a senior partner in a firm 
of solicitors. The second trustee is now someone different. 
Mr F says the primary motivations for creating the trust was to ensure financial security for 
one of their sons (Mr C) who suffers from long term mental illness. The trust would end on 
his death with any surviving children/grandchildren receiving the benefit. 
Mr F also says that it was primarily to be a capital holding fund, making ad hoc payments for 
things such as holidays and unforeseen needs in life. It wasnt otherwise created to provide 
regular income. 
I understand that when the trust came into being, its assets were entirely in the property that 
was owned by Mr F (and Mrs F) and lived in with Mr C. In 2008, when the house was sold 
the trustees decided to invest their share of the proceeds (£195,000) into assets. 
I note that matters were discussed with Antrams over several weeks before the trustees 
decided to go ahead with the recommendation and invest in the bond to be held in trust. 
In 2016, the trustees withdrew £50,000 for two beneficiaries, and in December 2021 after 
taking further advice from their new adviser, they surrendered the bond. They reinvested the 
proceeds in conventional funds less the surrender tax liabilities.  
Mr F says that the tax on the trust for the year 2021/22 was £94,385  tax on earlier years 
was carried forward. He says Antrams is to blame for the type of investment recommended. 
In other words, the high tax bill has arisen because bond gains are treated as income.   
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld on the 
basis that the redress offered by the business (in the sum of £13,685.97) to resolve the 
complaint is fair and reasonable, but that it wasnt obliged to do anymore. In summary, she 
made the following points:
The recommendation was suitable. It met the trusts objective for investment growth 
and tax efficiency with little or no administration. It was recorded that the trust didnt 
require an income. 
Full product and suitability documents were provided that made clear the tax 
treatment of the bond. 
Despite what the trustees say about tax implications, there was a tax liability because 
of the way the withdrawal was made. At the point of sale, the trustees said they didnt 
foresee the need for withdrawals. 
The tax treatment for future withdrawals was explained in the information provided. 
The above notwithstanding, Antrams agreed that the £50,000 withdrawal in 2016 
shouldve been executed by way of a segment assignment. As a consequence, it 
agreed to refund the difference if this had happened, in the sum of £13,685.97.  
Theres been much correspondence between the investigator and Mr F raising a number of 
points, but I dont think I need to repeat them all here. In short, he disagreed with the 
investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary, he made the 
following key points:
There was no mention of the requirement that the investment had to pay income tax 
in due course  after 21 years. The adviser was ignorant of this fact.  
The bond isnt tax efficient. 
He doesnt agree that the tax liability has arisen as a result of the withdrawal. 
When he appraised the adviser of the actual need to provide income to the 
beneficiaries, the adviser suggested using bond withdrawal. 
The documentation referred to by the investigator doesnt make clear the position 
regarding tax. Under Trust Objectives it only says that:
oTo invest in a tax efficient manner and to facilitate tax efficient withdrawals.
The footnote in the advisers letter of August 2008 in which it says Withdrawals up to 
5% only taxed at the fund underlying rate of 20% isnt true. It was 40% and now 
45%. 
The adviser was ignorant of how the payment to the two beneficiaries in 2016 
couldve been avoided by way of bond segment assignment. 
Antrams is probably used to advising individuals who arent familiar with tax thats 
why it gave the trustees this poor advice. 
In any case, the trustees didnt need or have specialist trust knowledge, and this 
shouldnt be held against them. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint, on the basis that Antrams offer of redress is broadly fair and 
reasonable. 
However, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr S says, Im unable 
to safely say that Antrams gave unsuitable investment advice.  
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise the trustees strength of feeling about this matter. They have provided detailed 
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope they wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr F and Antrams, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
I uphold this complaint on the basis that the redress offered by the business is broadly fair 
and reasonable, in brief, for the following reasons:
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the trustees say I cant 
safely say that the recommendation to invest in the bond wasnt suitable. Im 
persuaded that the recommendation met the trusts objectives and thats why the 
trustees accepted the recommendation and did so having had a reasonable amount 
of time to consider their options and make an informed decision. 
I note the trustees sought advice from the business and had no obligation to accept 
any recommendation, but they did and there was nothing to suggest that they werent 
happy with the advice.
Despite what Mr F now says, on balance I cant say that the recommendation didnt 
meet their broad objectives to invest for growth, in a tax efficient manner with 
administrative convenience, and allow some space for ad hoc payments but no 
regular income for at least 10 years. 
Im aware that the trust was established in 2001 and the advice was sought in 2008, 
some seven years later, when the trust wouldve been a third of the way through its 
21-year investment period. Ive seen nothing to suggest that this was specifically 
brought to the advisers attention, or that it was clear that it as a crucial part of the 
advice they were seeking rather than simply investing in a bond and placing it in a 
discretionary trust for purposes that only theyre familiar with. In the circumstances 
the adviser could only rely upon the information provided, and I cant say hes done 
anything wrong by doing so. 
Despite what Mr F says about the Will, on the face of the evidence and on balance 
Im satisfied that the trust was discussed in some detail in terms of how it came about 
and why. I also note the investment horizon was given as 10 years which wouldve 
helped the adviser tailor his advice  Ive seen nothing to suggests that the 21 years 
was mentioned. 
I note the key features document  more likely than not supplied to the trustees at the 
time  in respect of trusts said If your bond is set up under trust, income tax may be 
paid on gains. The rate of income tax and the person assessed will vary from trust to 
trust. Its arguable that this ought reasonably to have prompted further questions 
from the trustees and/or they ought to have sought clarification of they were unclear 
about what this might mean. Its arguable that not doing so might suggest that they 
were aware of this and had no concerns. 
Despite what Mr F says about the FCA principles, I dont agree that the adviser ought 
reasonably to have known about all the different types of taxes applying to all the 
different trusts beforehand. Antrams, although advising on some tax issues, isnt a 
specialist tax adviser. Given the trust set up, for which Antrams had no part to play, 
the trustees ought reasonably to have raised specific issues/concerns given their 
responsibilities towards the trust. There was no reason why the trustees couldnt make clear to the adviser that the 
trust was set up such that income couldnt be accumulated after 21 years so the trust 
had to pay out all the income after that period, therefore this was important to the 
advice they were seeking  the trustees wouldve known the trust in detail. I dont 
think it was necessary for them to have specialist tax knowledge. 
I note one of the two trustees at the time was a senior solicitor and had some trust 
and/or tax knowledge. But even if they werent, its not unreasonable for them to have 
raised these issues which they wouldve had knowledge of as trustees.    
On balance I dont agree that the trustees ought to have been volunteered further 
information regarding the specific tax treatment upon surrender if this wasnt 
specifically asked for. 
In an email dated January 2023, I note Mr F concedes that he was wrong in stating 
that the adviser should have provided tax treatment information at the stage of the 
initial report. However, Im aware that Mr F also thinks the recommendation shouldve 
taken taxation into account from the outset. 
I note Mr F concedes that the bond was more convenient than conventional 
investments, particularly as other investments involved the submission of annual tax 
returns  bonds generally require less administration for trustees. I cant see how this 
wouldnt have been welcome for the trustees.  
I note that in 2021  prior to the 21st anniversary of the trust in late 2022  Mr F 
asked the bond provider about obtaining income from the bond  presumably he did 
so for the first time, or else its likely that a plan of action wouldve been agreed upon 
earlier. 
I note Mr F says he thought the funds in which the bond was invested in could be 
switched to income producing funds, but Ive seen nothing to suggest that the 
trustees were specifically told or led to believe that this would be the case by the 
adviser.    
I note the bonds cant be income generating investments, which doesnt appear to be 
out of line with the fact that the bond wasnt created to provide an income. 
Despite what Mr F says about the Trustee Act 2000, it was the trustees that would 
need to invest in assets that produce an income, but they didnt do that or make clear 
thats what they wanted or needed to do. In the circumstances, and on balance, I 
cant blame Antrams for not suggesting (of its own volition) thats what they shouldve 
done as trustees.  
This might explain why upon subsequent enquiries, it was suggested by Mr F that the 
investment would have to be switched out of the insurance bond (albeit requiring its 
surrender) to an income producing investment. 
In the circumstances its not unusual that the surrender would create a chargeable 
event with tax implications, this might explain why the adviser suggested periodic 
withdrawal of funds from the bond to pay to the beneficiaries. I appreciate that this 
method wasnt without issue as Mr F pointed out in terms of capital withdrawal and 
those being treated as income for tax purposes. But thats not something that I can 
blame the business for. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, I cant safely say that the advice to invest in 
the bond was wrong, given the trust aims and objectives at the time.
I understand that if the trustees assign policy segments to the beneficiaries, this isnt 
a chargeable event for the trust and the beneficiaries. I note Mr F says that this will 
usually mean no tax to pay by basic rate beneficiaries possibly using top slicing. Its 
not an unreasonable way of avoiding up to 45% tax. 
I note that prior to 2021, all payments have been arranged by the adviser  
withdrawals within the 5% allowance such that no tax can be reclaimed, arguably 
rather than by segment assignment. 
I note that in 2016, the trustees of their own volition, decided to make relatively large 
payments to two beneficiaries, for reasons that arent relevant in this case, and £50,000 was withdrawn. Theres no reason why this couldnt have been done via 
segment assignment. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think Antrams 
ought reasonably to have suggested this as a way of withdrawing funds, but it didnt. 
I appreciate Antrams concedes this point. For the reasons set out above, I can see 
why the business felt segment assignment shouldve been recommended, I dont 
think that this is unreasonable given the tax implications. In the circumstances, and 
on balance, I think the businesss recommendation for redress  based on the tax 
paid compared to what they wouldve paid had they been advised about segment 
assignment  is broadly fair and reasonable. 
I note what Mr F says about inheritance tax (IHT) liability, but I cant say that the 
trustees wanted advice specifically about IHT or that this was the primary purpose of 
them seeking investment advice. 
It is inevitable that the gains on the bond would be liable to some tax and therefore 
they would be much lower  after tax  than what they appear to be pre-tax. I dont 
think thats an issue that means the advice was unsuitable.  
Even if the bond is taxed at a higher rate than conventional investments, this 
doesnt mean the recommendation is unsuitable based on this observation alone. I 
note the objective was also for growth, given that this money was invested from the 
house sale and principally for the benefit of the beneficiaries, who are Mr and Mrs Fs 
children and grandchildren.  
I note Mr F says that the taxation of bond gains is at least twice that of conventional 
investments. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that this was the basis upon which the 
trustees sought advice. In other words, they wanted the most tax efficient investment 
come what may. 
On balance, just because there were alternative investment options doesnt mean the 
recommendation to invest in the bond was unsuitable. 
I appreciate that the trustees on behalf of the trust will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive 
reached the same conclusion as the investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt 
what they want to hear. Whilst I appreciate their frustration, I cant safely say that the 
business provided unsuitable advice.
In other words, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, I uphold this complaint 
but dont think Antrams needs to do anything other than what it has already offered to do. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
I think Antrams Financial Services LLPs offer to pay T £13,685.97 is broadly fair and 
reasonable and it should pay this amount unless it has done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman