DRN-3479629
The complaint
Mr B complains that Gain Capital UK Limited (Gain) unfairly voided one of his oil trades on 
the basis that it had quoted an erroneous price.  
What happened
Mr B had a Contract for Difference (CFD) trading account with Gain. On 28 April he had a 
limit order on oil, which would trigger if the price dropped to 1075 or lower. At around 8.47pm 
Gain quoted an incorrect price of 888.8 which caused Mr Bs limit order to trigger. But the 
underlying market was not trading at that level  it was trading at between 1384.5 and 
1392.5. As a result, Gain undertook a review of orders that were triggered or executed at the 
incorrect prices it quoted and voided them  including Mr Bs. 
Mr B complained. In short, he said that it wasnt fair that his trade was simply removed 
without any prior notification. And he said that he didnt agree there was a manifest error  in 
his view there was sufficient volatility at the time to show large swings in the price of oil. 
Gain looked into the matter, but reaffirmed that Mr Bs trade had been triggered at a price 
that had been erroneously quoted  and as such it was within its rights to void the trade. 
Mr B remained unhappy and referred the matter to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into Mr Bs complaint, and didnt consider it should be upheld. In short, he said that 
on 28 April 2020 Gain moved the US Crude Oil pricing from the June futures contract to the 
July futures contract. When this happened, a system error occurred which meant that the 
wrong fair value adjustment was applied, creating an erroneous price. The error essentially 
meant that price it was quoting continued to be based on the June futures contract, but with 
a negative adjustment (that shouldve been applied to the July futures contract) being 
applied. The investigator also said that he saw data from Bloomberg which he found 
persuasive in supporting Gains testimony that the underlying price never dropped as low as 
the price it quoted on the day. 
Mr B didnt agree. He provided detailed comments in response and charts from Nymex. He 
said:
The evidence from Nymex showed there was no consistent correlation between 
Gains prices and Nymex, including on 28 April when the error occurred. He said this 
showed that it was impossible to claim with 100% certainty or beyond reasonable 
doubt that the price of oil is of a certain amount with one provider or a market maker 
and that this will be in turn reflected in a different provider with a perfect correlation. 
As the investigator had confirmed, Gain was offering its own spot price. He said this 
meant, in short, that it ought to be responsible for it and honour it as this is the price it 
displayed on its platform. 
It wasnt reasonable, in any event, for Gain to have switched futures contracts on 28 
April, only a week into the June contract, and further it was unreasonable for it to 
have done so during live trading hours. 
He didnt agree it was fair for Gain to have total discretion over what to do in the 
event of a manifest error, and reiterated that in his view it ought to bear full 
responsibility for the price they provided to their clients. 
The investigator made some further enquiries, but wasnt persuaded to change his 
assessment. He said
Gain had explained that the pricing error occurred when moving from the June 
contract to the July contact. He explained that when that happened, the new price 
shouldve been the same  and wouldve been calculated by reference to the July 
futures contract -3.79. Instead, the new price was the June futures contract -3.79, 
and this is what created the error. Once the error was identified, Gain took remedial 
action. 
He said that while he considered Mr Bs evidence, he didnt think it showed that Mr B 
thought. He said both Bloomberg and Nymex showed that prices didnt get to 888 on 
the day in question, which was evidence that Gains testimony about its erroneous 
price was genuine. 
The investigator said that it was this error in price that caused Mr Bs limit order to 
trigger, and that Gain acted in line with the terms when it decided to void the trade. 
The investigator also explained some differences between Nymex data and 
Bloomberg data and why, in his view, the Bloomberg data was more persuasive 
when assessing the price Gain was quoting at the time.
The investigator acknowledged Mr Bs perspective that Gain ought to own the price it 
was quoting  but he also said that if the situation had been that a pricing error had 
caused Mr B a loss, he would be asking Gain to put things right.  
The investigator said that whilst he understood why Mr B was referencing Gains past 
conduct, he didnt think it was relevant to Mr Bs case. 
Mr B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said Gain was setting its own 
price, and maintained that Gain should be fully responsible for its own price and the 
environment its clients are trading in. 
He said that the investigator never provided any reliable data to prove the pricing error  
whilst he had provided data from Nymex which showed the random nature of the price 
correlation between different providers. He said that given these circumstances, he didnt 
believe it was possible to say with absolute certainty that Gains price on the day was wrong 
with reference to other providers. He also thought that the investigator wasnt consistent in 
his arguments, when he said that the price for oil didnt fall particularly close to Mr Bs limit 
order price. Mr B queried what particularly close meant or what close would mean in a 
volatile market such as the oil market at the time. Finally he said that he had queried why 
Gain decided to swap June contract for July contract on 28 April, during live trading, and he 
referenced examples of Gains previous mis-conduct to justify why he thought this was 
relevant. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Im sorry to disappoint Mr B. I can see that he has provided detailed comments in response 
to the investigators assessment, and he feels strongly that his complaint should be upheld. 
Id also like to explain in advance that I wont be addressing all the comments he has 
provided, I hope he doesnt take that as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision is to 
focus on the key issues in dispute, and explain my reasons. 
In this case, the key issue in dispute is the price which Gain quoted on 28 April 2020 and 
which it later said amounted to a Manifest Error. 
When Mr B opened his account with Gain, he agreed to its terms and conditions. This 
contains a section on what Gain defines as a Manifest Error (s.14 Manifest Error). This says 
(s14.1):
A Manifest Error is an error, omission or misquote (including any misquote by our dealer) 
which by fault of either of us or any third party is materially and clearly incorrect when taking 
into account market conditions and quotes in Markets or Underlying Instruments which 
prevailed at the time. It may include, but is not limited to, an incorrect price, date, time, 
Market or currency pair, financing calculation, rebate, commission or any error or lack of 
clarity of any information, source, commentator, official result or pronouncement.
It then goes on to explain that (s14.2):
 If a Trade is based on a Manifest Error (regardless of whether you or we gain from the 
error) and/or closed on the basis of Manifest Error we may act reasonably and in good faith 
to:
14.2.1 void the Trade as if it had never taken place;
14.2.2 close the Trade or any Open Position resulting from it; or
14.2.3 amend the Trade, or place a new Trade, as the case may, so that (in either 
case) its terms are the same as the Trade which would have been placed and/or 
continued if there had been no Manifest Error.
Finally, s.14.3 explains that Gain will take action as soon as reasonably practicable after it 
becomes aware of the Manifest Error. It will also, where practicable, attempt to give prior 
notice of any change, but will otherwise provide such notice as soon as practicable 
afterwards.  
Ive looked through Mr Bs evidence. Im not persuaded it proves what he thinks it does. The 
issue here isnt whether or not Gains prices have a direct correlation with the prices 
provided by other brokers. As the investigator has explained, trading a CFD with a broker 
like Gain means that an investor is trading on that brokers price  and it wont be exactly the 
same, in most cases, as another broker, nor will it be exactly the same as trading directly in 
the underlying market. However, it ought to be broadly in line with the underlying market. 
The reason the investigator was persuaded by the pricing evidence from Bloomberg was 
because it showed, broadly speaking, what the underlying market was trading at  allowing 
him to therefore compare the price Gain has said was erroneous, with what was happening 
elsewhere in the market. This is directly relevant to the term Ive quoted above. 
It's important that I explain to Mr B that my role isnt to audit the pricing data Gain was 
providing. My role is to consider whether Gains actions were fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. And to decide matters, not by reference to what is beyond reasonable doubt 
or with absolute certainty, but rather by reference to what is most likely to have happened. 
In this case Gain has explained how the error occurred. It has provided its testimony about 
this to the service, and has explained the process it uses to derive prices for this particular 
market. Ive seen insufficient evidence to persuade me that it has fabricated this evidence. And I say this because, in looking through both the Bloomberg data and the Nymex data Mr 
B provided, Im satisfied the market was never trading as low as the price Mr B received 
from Gain  either immediately before, or immediately after. In my view, it was fair and 
reasonable for Gain to have concluded that this price amounted to a Manifest Error in line 
with the terms of the agreement. Furthermore, the evidence Ive seen shows that the price 
Gain has said it ought to have been quoting was reflective of the underlying market  and 
this is what Gain needed to provide to Mr B while he was trading with it. 
Taking the evidence into account, Im therefore satisfied that Gain acted fairly and 
reasonably when it concluded that the price Mr Bs limit order was triggered at was not a 
genuine reflection of the underlying market, but an error caused by Gain. This means it 
therefore needed, in good faith, to decide what remedial action to take in line with the terms 
Ive quoted above. 
I agree with Mr B that any adverse consequences caused by this error would be for Gain to 
put right. If by quoting an incorrect price Mr B had been caused a financial loss, then I would 
be asking Gain to put that right. And it may be that if Mr Bs limit order would have triggered 
anyway, but at a slightly higher price than the one he received, that Id be considering 
whether it would have been fair and reasonable for Gain to reinstate the trade at the price 
his limit order wouldve triggered at. 
But in Mr Bs case, neither of these scenarios apply. His order would not have triggered at 
the time. So Gain didnt have the option of reinstating or amending the trade  because it 
wouldnt have been open. And I dont agree that Mr B should benefit from an erroneous price 
 because this was essentially a risk free trade. Mr B was guaranteed an immediate profit as 
the trade had opened at a level lower than the actual market was trading at. 
I acknowledge Mr B is sceptical about Gains actions in view of the reviews he has found 
online. But Im satisfied Gain has not done anything wrong in this particular case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman