DRN-2500137
The complaint
Mr C says Barclays Bank UK plc (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr C bought the policy in 2002 at the same time as taking out an Egg credit card online. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below. 
Mr C says the PPI was presented as part of the credit card application, and that 
Barclaycard didnt make it clear that the policy was optional. Ive noted everything Mr C 
has said.
But Ive seen a screen print of the part of the online credit card application process 
where PPI wouldve been offered to Mr C. This shows that he wouldve had to choose 
whether he wanted PPI or not before he could continue with her application. He 
wouldve had to say yes and no in response to the offer of PPI. 
In addition, Barclaycards record of the application data shows that Mr C selected the 
PPI. So I think Barclaycard made him aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to 
take it.
Mr C says he didnt need the PPI because he received generous benefits from his 
employer and wasnt likely to be made redundant. But Barclaycard didnt recommend 
the policy to Mr C so it didnt have to check if he needed it or whether it was suitable for 
him. As Mr C chose to take the PPI, I think he wanted to protect his repayments 
against illness and unemployment.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But its unlikely Mr C wouldve been affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt cover. Mr C says he had good employee benefits, but the PPI wouldve 
paid out in addition to these. The policy was also competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
Mr C has told me hes received PPI refunds in connection with policies he took out when his 
circumstances were the same as in this case. So he considers Barclaycard should make a 
similar refund. But even though Mr Cs circumstances may have been the same, the nature 
of the credit product and the terms and conditions of the policy may be different to those for 
which hes received a refund. We assess each complaint according to its own facts. And 
having done so in this case, Im not persuaded that the PPI was mis-sold. 
Which means Barclaycard does not have to refund all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because:
- Barclaycard got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because Barclaycard didnt 
tell Mr C, that was unfair.
- To put that right, Barclaycard has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) does
not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) does have to pay back to Mr C any
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand
it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman