DRN-3205355
The complaint
Mr T says MBNA Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr T bought the policy in 1997 at the same time as taking out a credit card. Our adjudicator 
upheld the complaint, because he didnt think Mr T wouldve bought the policy if MBNA had 
made the costs and benefits clear to him. 
MBNA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint was passed to me. I issued 
a provisional decision for the complaint on 1 November 2021. I said I didnt intend to uphold 
the complaint. Details of my provisional findings are set out below:
I thought MBNA made Mr T aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to 
take it. This was because hed ticked the box on the credit card application form to 
show that he wanted the cover. And there was an alternative box that he couldve 
ticked if he hadnt wanted it.
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr T so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for him. 
I thought it was possible the information MBNA gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. Our adjudicator thought it was unlikely Mr T wouldve 
bought the policy if hed had better information about its cost and benefits. Thats 
because Mr T had said he had sick pay and savings he couldve used if he wasnt 
working. 
Given the amount of the benefits hed mentioned the adjudicator thought it was 
unlikely he wouldve thought the policy was good value. MBNA pointed out that there 
were discrepancies in the amount of sick pay Mr T said he was entitled to. Hed 
mentioned a variety of cover, ranging from two to four weeks full pay, to four months 
full pay, to six months full pay followed by six months half pay. 
The adjudicator asked Mr T to provide evidence of the sick pay he was entitled to 
when the policy was sold, but as far as I was aware he hadnt been able to do so. I 
didnt think that was surprising given the amount of time that had passed. 
But given the wide-ranging discrepancies in the sick pay Mr T had mentioned, I didnt 
think I could safely say how much sick pay he was entitled to. 
In addition, I noted that MBNA had said that the policy wouldve paid out for accident 
and sickness until Mr T returned to work, or until the claim balance was paid in full. 
Keeping in mind what Id said about the uncertainty around the amount of sick pay Mr 
T was entitled to, on balance I thought it was likely that the policy couldve paid out 
for longer than Mr Ts employer benefits and savings. So even if hed had better 
information about the policys cost and benefits, I didnt think that wouldve changed 
his decision to buy it.
Taking account of all of those points, I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint.
Mr T didnt make any further representations in response to my provisional decision, and 
neither did MBNA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts case.
In the absence of any further representations from the parties, I dont intend to depart from 
the position set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman