DRN-2765537
The complaint
O complains about the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS)
asked her to pay when she returned a car at the end of a hire period. 
What happened
I provided a provisional decision on this complaint in April 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about the problems O had when the car was inspected but Im afraid that
having reviewed the evidence supplied I dont currently agree with the investigators view.
Please let me explain.
O acquired the car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement
and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The terms of the finance agreement held O responsible for keeping the car in good
condition. She would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct
condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned
at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association
(BVRLA).
Ive considered the photographs of the damage that have been provided. The headlamp is
cracked, and the dent is beyond what would be considered fair wear and tear. The BVRLA
guidance would therefore support a charge being made.
O has explained that she believes the damage was done just before the inspection was
completed. She says she asked the inspector if she could keep hold of the car to arrange for
repairs through her insurance policy, but he told her that wasnt possible.
But the inspector doesnt agree that he told O that and MBFS have explained that O could
have cancelled the collection if she had wanted to.
So, I cant be sure what was said to O at the time of the collection. But Im persuaded, on
balance, that it would be unreasonable to ask MBFS to reduce the charges theyve asked O
to pay because:
I think if O had been told she couldnt cancel the collection she would have been
likely to call MBFS to dispute this, but Ive not seen evidence that happened;
I think the inspector would have been likely to have made a note of the collection
cancellation dispute had it taken place as I can see he recorded other issues i.e.
about a mileage discrepancy and the potential for other damage underneath the
bonnet;
Its not unusual for collections to be cancelled. I have reviewed many complaints
where this has been the case and I think it is therefore likely the inspector would
have known about the collection procedure;
I dont think the collection necessarily prevented O from raising an insurance claim.
Although I can understand there may have been issues about whether the damage
could be repaired and who owned the car, there was evidence in the inspectors
photographs of the damage and that the damage had been incurred whilst the car
was in Os possession. Ive not seen evidence that any claim was made to the
insurer.
So, on balance, Im not currently persuaded that MBFS have done anything wrong here. The
terms of the finance agreement held O responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned
in the correct condition and, as the inspectors report demonstrates the car wasnt in the
correct condition, the charges should apply.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im not expecting to uphold this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MBFS didnt have anything else to add but O did. She sent more photographs of the damage 
and explained that it could only have happened moments before the inspector arrived. She 
said it was very unfair for the inspector to refuse to allow her to keep the car and that she 
had a right to do so regardless of how inconvenient this would have been for the inspector. 
I dont dispute Os suggestion that the damage happened shortly before the inspection but, 
whilst I have the upmost sympathy, Im afraid I dont think there is sufficient evidence to 
suggest O asked to keep the car or that the request was denied. Thats for the same 
reasons Ive set out above. 
So, Im still not persuaded that MBFS have done anything wrong here as the car was 
returned in an unsatisfactory condition and, in those circumstances, the terms of the finance 
agreement allowed MBFS to levy a charge for refurbishment. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman