DRN-3842749
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Zurich Insurance PLC avoided his home insurance policy 
following a claim for fire damage. 
Mr and Mrs S have been represented by a third party at points throughout the claim, 
however for ease of reading all references to Mr and Mrs S include the actions of the third 
party. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had home insurance to cover the property they lived in. In February 2019 
there was an escape of water at the property. Mr S called Zurich to report the matter but said 
he was going on holiday the following day so wouldnt make a claim until he returned. 
On 1 April 2019 he called Zurich to make a claim. He said hed been delayed due to an 
injury he had sustained and that he hadnt been living in the insured property since the 
escape of water at the start of February. Zurich accepted the claim and proceeded to settle 
it. 
On 2 April 2019 the policy renewed for another year. 
In August 2019 there was a fire at the property. Mr S made another claim for the damage 
and Zurich sent a loss adjuster to assess it. In the months that followed, Zurich carried out 
investigations into the claim. And at the beginning of 2021 it wrote to Mr and Mrs S to say 
that it was declining their claim and would avoid their policy (cancel it as if it never existed) 
up to the April 2019 renewal. 
It said it believed the property had been unoccupied since the summer of 2018 and Mr and 
Mrs S hadnt declared this. It said it was a condition of the policy that if the property was 
going to be unoccupied then the policyholder had to inform it, and they hadnt at the renewal 
in 2019. It said if they had, it wouldnt have offered to renew the policy and therefore under 
the relevant law, Mr and Mrs S had made a qualifying misrepresentation and it was able to 
avoid the policy.
Mr and Mrs S didnt think this was fair. They said they had occupied the property up until the 
escape of water in February 2019 and had told Zurich it had been unoccupied since then in 
their call on 1 April. They made a complaint but Zurich didnt uphold it so they brought it to 
this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. He said 
that in order to avoid Mr and Mrs S policy under the relevant law, Mr and Mrs S would need 
to have made a misrepresentation at the April 2019 renewal. And as they had called the day 
before the renewal to inform Zurich that the property was unoccupied, there hadnt been a 
misrepresentation. He therefore thought Zurich should reinstate Mr and Mrs S policy and 
consider the fire claim. 
Mr and Mrs S accepted our investigators outcome. However Zurich didnt. It said while it 
accepted Mr and Mrs S called to say the property had been unoccupied since the escape of 
water in February 2019, they hadnt said it had been unoccupied since summer 2018. It said 
it had enough evidence to show this was the case, so still maintained that they had made a 
misrepresentation at renewal. 
As Zurich didnt agree with our investigators outcome, the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has 
certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying 
misrepresentation. 
Here, Zurich says Mr S made a misrepresentation at the renewal of the policy, as it said he 
didnt provide the full details of the unoccupancy of the property he was insuring.
Ive looked at the renewal documents for the 2019 policy year. They are dated 3 March 2019 
and explain that the policy is due to renew on 2 April 2019. The documents include the 
following wording:
You must tell us immediately if any of your information is incorrect or changes. If we have 
wrong information this may result in an increased premium and/or claims not being paid in 
full, or your insurance may not be valid and claims will not be paid. If in doubt about any 
information please contact us as soon as possible.
Changes in information we need to be informed of include, but are not limited to, the 
following examples
 if your home becomes unoccupied or unfurnished
From the information Ive seen, I agree that at the time the first renewal documents were 
issued, Mr S hadnt informed Zurich that the property was unoccupied. 
However on 1 April 2019 he called Zurich to make a claim for the escape of water at the 
property. In this call he said the property had been unoccupied since the incident at the start 
of February and remained so. The policy then renewed on 2 April 2019.
In order to say there has been a misrepresentation, Id need to be persuaded that Mr and 
Mrs S provided a false statement of fact at the renewal. And before the new insurance 
contract begun, Mr S called Zurich to let it know the property was unoccupied. Because of 
this I dont agree that Mr S provided incorrect information at the policy renewal, as he 
informed Zurich of the unoccupied status of the property before the new insurance contract 
began. I therefore dont agree he made a misrepresentation at renewal.
I note that Zurich has said that while it accepts Mr S did inform it ahead of renewal that the 
property had been unoccupied, it believes the property had been unoccupied for much 
longer than Mr S had declared. And therefore as he didnt disclose how long the property 
had been unoccupied for, he did make a misrepresentation. Ive considered this but I dont agree its fair to say that Mr and Mrs S made a 
misrepresentation at this renewal. The policy documents made it clear that they should 
inform Zurich if the property is unoccupied and this is what they did. So at the renewal of the 
policy Zurich were aware that the property was unoccupied. If Zurich had concerns about 
unoccupancy in the previous policy year that wasnt declared that would be considered a 
misrepresentation during a different contract  the policy year from April 2018. However it 
raised no concerns at the time of the alleged misrepresentation. And it accepted and settled 
a claim for an escape of water during that policy year with no concerns raised about a 
misrepresentation then either.
But as part of this complaint, I am considering just whether Zurich has acted fairly by 
avoiding the policy from the April 2019 renewal. And therefore whether a misrepresentation 
was made at the start of that contract on 2 April 2019.  As Mr S had informed Zurich that the 
property was unoccupied before the contract began, I dont find that he made a 
misrepresentation. 
In order for Zurich to take remedial action under CIDRA it needs to have shown that there 
has been a qualifying misrepresentation. And as Ive found that it hasnt shown this, it follows 
that it hasnt acted fairly by avoiding Mr and Mrs S policy.  I therefore agree with our 
investigator that Zurich should reinstate Mr and Mrs S policy for the 2019 policy year and 
consider their claim for the fire. It should also ensure that both external and internal records 
are updated to remove any markers that show the policy avoidance. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint. I require Zurich Insurance PLC 
to:
Reinstate their policy for the policy year beginning April 2019.
Consider their claim for fire damage from that policy year.
Remove all markers from internal and external databases that show a policy avoidance. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman