DRN-2719228
The complaint
Mr M complained about his insurance broker, Hasting Insurance Services Limited (Hastings) 
he said it didnt find him the best deal on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M purchased a motor vehicle insurance policy via Hastings which he found through an 
online comparison tool. Hastings themselves do not provide the insurance but are a broker.  
For the first year of his policy Mr M paid £238.09. When his policy expired a year later he 
decided to renew it. His premium increased a small amount to £244.36. However, Mr M then 
changed his car very shortly after renewing his policy, he contacted Hastings to let them 
know about this change and they told him the change would mean his premium would 
increase by an additional £221.67. 
Mr M accepted the change and paid his premium however just under three months later he 
used an online price comparison tool which returned a number of different quotes, the lowest 
of which was £307.09, this was also via Hastings. Mr M thought Hastings were his insurance 
provider, not a broker so he wrote to them to complain they were offering the same cover for 
less than he had paid and not told him.
When Mr M realised Hastings are a broker as opposed to the insurance provider he felt it 
should have found him the cheapest and most competitive offering. He also says it was not 
clear Hastings were only a broker and it disguised this fact. Mr M says there was no 
indication on the website or in any documents he received from it that it was anything other 
than his insurance provider. Mr M cancelled his policy and received a refund for the 
remainder of the policy.
Hastings explained when a change is made to a policy it assesses the new details and 
provide a quote based on the risk those details present. Hastings further explained when a 
customer searches for a new policy online, the quotes offered can sometimes be cheaper 
due to a wider range of policy products being offered.
 
Hastings said they had acted appropriately and wouldnt be able to offer a refund on the 
difference between the two prices as requested.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint as they considered Mr M had been informed 
of the increase to his premium and Hastings had kept Mr M updated while he was insured by 
them. 
Mr M disagreed with this outcome so requested his case be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M says he wasnt aware Hastings werent his insurance provider and only became aware 
of this over a year after he first took out his insurance. He says this wasnt clear in the policy 
documents and correspondence he received. I can see Mr M may not have been aware but 
having viewed the policy documents I dont think there was any attempt to conceal this fact. 
Mr Ms certificate of insurance clearly states the name of his insurer in a box at the top of the 
page and in the You and Your Car policy document and cover letter he received with his 
insurance his insurer is named on page 1 of the document. Therefore, I dont agree that 
there was no indication of this fact, or that it was being disguised. Mr M may not have been 
aware, but the information was readily available, and I cant say there was any attempt made 
to hide it. 
I have also considered whether Hastings should have made Mr M aware of cheaper policies 
being available. Hastings explained a wider range of products may be available online and I 
also note Mr M searched online some months after he accepted his renewal quote. I can see 
why Mr M is frustrated he did not receive what he would consider to be a competitive quote, 
but he could have used any online comparison tool before agreeing to the policy. 
Furthermore, every insurer will have their own prices and the Financial Ombudsman Service 
isnt able to require Hastings to match the quote of another insurer. 
I have also considered that a quote is not always the exact amount a consumer would end 
up paying for their insurance. It is only after the consumer has provided full details that the 
insurer will confirm an exact amount. 
Considering all the evidence I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. I am not requiring Hastings to 
do anything further.
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Sarah Scott
Ombudsman