DRN-4264008
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed her UK bank account because she no 
longer lives in the UK and that Barclays hasnt provided the service it should have when a 
family member has been trying to set up a Power of Attorney. 
Mrs S is represented by a family member, Mrs T. 
What happened
Mrs S had a bank account with Barclays. In July 2022 she received a letter saying that 
because she is no longer living in the UK her bank account couldnt be kept open. Mrs S has 
multiple pensions being paid into her Barclays account and so she wanted her account to 
remain open. Mrs T wrote to Barclays to ask if, given Mrs S circumstances, her account 
closure could be delayed.
Barclays issued a final response letter dated February 2023. It said that as a ring-fenced 
bank, its UK products are designed for customers within the UK. Following UK leaving the 
EU it reviewed the services it offered to customers within the European Economic Area 
(EEA). It said that any customers impacted were contacted and any decisions were policy 
decisions and would not be overturned. It apologised for the distress and inconvenience this 
caused Mrs S and offered her £50 compensation because of this.
Mrs T says she accepted that Mrs Ss account couldnt be kept open and tried to register a 
Power of Attorney so that she would be able to transfer the funds from Mrs Ss UK account 
to her overseas account. She received a letter form Barclays saying that the Power of 
Attorney couldnt be registered but not giving any further information.
Barclays then explained why the Power of Attorney couldnt be registered and provided 
details of what was needed to move forward. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She thought that Barclays had provided Mrs S 
with reasonable notice of the account closure and didnt think Barclays had done anything 
wrong by taking the action it did.
Mrs T responded to our investigators view. She reiterated that he wasnt trying to get 
Mrs Ss account reopened but to get the Power of Attorney registered. She said that 
Barclays offered her the opportunity of completing a submission form to enable the 
registration of the Power of Attorney. She said she provided notarised copies of all the 
documentation requested but her request was rejected. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S had a UK bank account with Barclays. Barclays has explained that following the UK 
leaving the EU it reviewed the services it offered to customers within the EEA. This resulted 
in a letter being sent to Mrs S to inform her that her account would be closed. Barclays has 
said that following the initial account closure letter sent in July 2022, it sent two further letters 
in October 2022 and January 2023 explaining the account would be closed. 
As it was a policy decision by Barclays to limit certain services provided to customers living 
in the EEA and Mrs S was affected by this, I cannot say Barclays did anything wrong or 
treated her unfairly by notifying her of the account closure. I have looked at the letters sent, 
and these provided details of the timing of the closure and the need to take action. Based on 
this I find that Barclays provided adequate notice of the closure to enable action to be taken 
in regard to Mrs Ss account. 
Mrs T has explained that given Mrs Ss age and health she requested that the account 
closure be delayed. I can understand why Mrs T made this request but given the account 
closure was part of a wider commercial decision and Mrs S didnt meet the criteria for the 
account to remain open I do not find I can say Barclays did anything wrong by closing 
Mrs S's account. 
Mrs T accepts that the account cant be re-opened and says she is now concerned to get a 
Power of Attorney registered to enable the funds from the account to be transferred to 
Mrs Ss overseas account. I appreciate that she provided documents to Barclays and feels 
that these were sufficient for the Power of Attorney to be registered. But Barclays has 
explained the issue and the next steps that need to be taken. While I appreciate this is 
proving to be a more difficult process than Mrs T had expected, as I find Barclays provided 
enough notice before the account closure to enable the funds to be moved and has provided 
details of what is required to move forward at this point, I do not find I can say that it has 
done anything wrong or treated Mrs S unfairly. Because of this I do not uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman