DRN-2875607
The complaint
Ms T and Mr W complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE failed to isolate a leaking hot water 
cylinder which caused damage to a ceiling. They want the company to pay for the repairs 
caused by the leak. This is a home insurance policy.
I will refer to Mr W as the complainant for ease of reading.
What happened
Mr W noticed a leak from his hot water cylinder in December 2020. He contacted Great 
Lakes to make a claim under his home insurance. It arranged for a plumber to attend on the 
same day. The plumber identified a fault with the cylinder, which needed to be replaced. To 
support this, photographs have been supplied which show significant corrosion where the 
inlet pipe joins the cylinder. 
Mr W says the plumber said the leak had been contained. He assumed this would mean he 
could not use the hot water. However, he says the plumber told him the immersion heater 
could still be used. Based on this Mr T says he switched on the immersion heater, which 
created a further leak and caused damage to the ceiling below. 
Mr W attempted to contact Great Lakes the following day when he noticed the damage to 
the ceiling. He says he could not get through on the phone and so contacted the original 
plumber directly. The plumber attended the same day. Great Lakes say the leak was then 
isolated. The plumber did this by draining the cylinder and the cold-water tank, which feeds 
into the cylinder.  
Mr W says when he later enquired about a replacement cylinder with local plumbers, he was 
told a slow leak remained. He says this was because the cylinder had not been drained fully. 
The continuing leak has caused further damage to his ceiling.   
In response to Mr Ws complaint Great Lakes says its plumber offered to drain the hot water 
cylinder but this was declined. It says this was because Mr W wanted to be able to use the 
immersion heater. 
Our investigator decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint. She identified that no documentation 
had been completed by the Great Lakes plumber from the first visit. By this she referred to a 
worksheet or possibly a waiver confirming Mr W had declined the offer to drain the cylinder. 
She said she would expect to see evidence of the work carried out and of what was 
discussed with Mr W. 
The investigator decided it was unlikely the plumber had clearly explained to Mr W the risk 
involved in continuing to use the immersion heater. She felt it was fair for Great Lakes to pay 
for the ceiling repairs on production of a relevant quote for the work. 
Great Lakes said its plumber was unlikely to have left the property in the state claimed, 
without the express consent of the customer. It requested for an ombudsman to review the 
case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so I have decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint, and I will explain why. The terms and 
conditions of the home insurance policy include the following exclusions:
What is not included: Any non-gas appliances, Elson tanks, separate gas heaters 
supplying hot water, LPG boilers and dual-purpose boilers such as AGAs and Rayburns.
Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind caused by or resulting from wear 
and tear, depreciation, corrosion, rusting, damp, insects, vermin, fungus, condensation, 
fading, frost or anything which happens gradually, the process of cleaning, dyeing, repair, 
alteration, renovation or restoration. 
It is clear from the policy exclusions that the damage to Mr Ws hot water cylinder is not 
covered for repair or replacement. The photographs illustrate that the cylinder was the 
source of the leak, and this shows extensive damage from corrosion. 
However, Mr W accepts that the policy will not cover the cost of a replacement cylinder. His 
claim is not for this, his claim is for damage caused to the ceiling. This is because Great 
Lakes plumber told him he could use the immersion heater, which resulted in further 
leaking. Mr W says he did not notice any damage to the ceiling until after he had used the 
immersion heater.  
No documentation was created at the time of the first plumbers visit. I agree with the 
investigator this information is important and would have helped to clarify what work was 
carried out and what was discussed.  
The system notes provided by Great Lakes include the following record, dated from the initial 
visit by the plumber:
Notes: CM stated had engineer out to fit 3port valve and engineer noticed that there was a 
leak from the tank. Checked leak out is leaking directly from cylinder so will need cylinder 
replacing. Is containable leak so CM doesn't want cylinder draining as can have HW through 
immersion.
The above note states that the leak was containable. This is at odds with Great Lakes 
argument and adds weight to Mr Ws recollection of events. Great Lakes says the only way 
to stop the leak was to drain and isolate the cylinder. But this is not what this system note 
implies Mr W was told. 
On balance of the information I have seen, I do not believe that Mr W was given clear 
information by Great Lakes plumber. He was not made aware that he risked further leaks 
and damage to his home. In fact, the system notes suggest the opposite, in that he could 
continue to use hot water, because the leak had been contained.
Putting things right
For the reasoning set out above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint. This means Great Lakes is 
required to pay Mr W for the cost of repairs to the living room ceiling on provision of a suitable quote for the work.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Great Lakes Insurance SE should:
pay Mr W an amount for the cost of repairs to the living room ceiling on provision of a 
suitable quote for this work. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman