DRN-2253941
The complaint
Mr H has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc declined his request for an increase in credit 
limit after it had told him the credit limit application had been accepted
What happened
Mr H contacted HSBC on 19 March 2020 to request an increase in his credit limit from
£12,000 to £20,000. Mr H explained that he was expecting a number of increased
outgoings and told HSBC about these, so it was aware of his circumstances. 
Initially Mr H was told his application would be approved, subject to salary verification. 
However, Mr H and HSBC discussed the application again on 23 March 2020 and 16 April 
2020 and HSBC confirmed it wouldnt be increasing his limit.
HSBC issued a final response letter apologising Mr H was given incorrect information when 
he applied to increase his credit limit. They said theyd credited £395 to his account which 
included £200 compensation, £195 card fee and £60 additional cardholder fee, if Mr H 
wanted to add another cardholder. HSBC also confirmed theyd arrange for the credit search 
to be removed.
Mr H didnt think this was enough. Hes said hes lost out on £8,000 which hed started to 
factor into his future expenses. He also said hes had to liquidate other assets which has 
cost him interest. Hes explained this has been very stressful and would like compensation 
for the loss of increased spending power until a new credit limit increase application can be 
made  which hes said is usually six months.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said when Mr H made his application it 
was incorrectly indicated to him that it would be accepted, subject to salary verification. She 
said although she cant tell a business to lend to a customer, she can consider whether a 
business has acted fairly, and she thought HSBC had acted fairly in assessing Mr Hs 
application. 
Our investigator said it was clear Mr H was given incorrect information about his application 
but during the call of 23 March it was clear HSBC had declined his application. So whilst 
HSBC had made an error, this was corrected within four days. For this reason, she didnt 
think HSBC needed to do anything further.
Mr H didnt agree, he said he planned to spend the £8,000 and had factored this into his 
future financial plan. He wasnt happy with the offer. He said he couldnt move credit card 
providers as he is waiting for some refunds to be credited to his card. He says although he 
has a free year of credit services, this is from a bank hes lost confidence in. He felt the offer 
of £200 was shocking and that HSBC shouldnt be approving applications mistakenly. He 
also questioned whether HSBC properly communicated the outcome of the decline on 23 
March as he was still expecting a response from HSBC.
Our investigator listened to the call of 23 March and found HSBC did effectively 
communicate the decline of the application to Mr H. Although he requested a call back from 
a manager, she said HSBC did tell him the application had been declined. 
She acknowledged Mr H was awaiting refunds back to his credit card account but said if Mr 
H had spoken to HSBC it may have been able to make other arrangements. She thought it 
was unlikely Mr H wouldve closed his credit card as he wouldnt have been able to use the 
existing credit limit he had.
Mr H didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr H is aware, the decision whether or not to lend is a commercial one which we wouldnt 
generally interfere with. HSBC is able to set its own lending criteria and determine what it will 
take into account in making a lending decision. 
We can look at whether HSBC have acted fairly in assessing Mr Hs application and Im 
satisfied it did so. I say this because it referred Mr Hs application to the relevant team for 
consideration in order to decide whether HSBC could accept the application. Part of their 
consideration was based on Mr Hs turnover through his current account. So based on the 
reasons for HSBC declining Mr Hs application, I dont think they acted unreasonably.
The crux of Mr Hs complaint is about the incorrect advice he was given about his credit card 
limit increase as he was initially told it would be approved subject to him verifying his salary.
I can see that Mr H requested an increase in his credit card limit from £12,000 to £20,000 on 
19 March 2020. HSBC says at this time they incorrectly advised Mr H this would be 
approved once theyd seen evidence of his income.
However, on 23 March HSBC made the decision to decline his application based on their 
lending criteria. Ive listened to the call where this is discussed. HSBC explains they werent 
able to approve his request because his salary wasnt credited to his current account which 
is linked to his credit card. Mr H was understandably unhappy about this given that he was 
under the impression his application had been accepted subject to him providing evidence of 
his salary. 
I think HSBC made it clear to Mr H that his application had been declined. And I think Mr H 
understood this to be the case, although he was waiting for a manager to get in touch with 
him to discuss it further as he was unhappy HSBC had changed their decision to lend to him.
On 14 April Mr H sent HSBC an email stating that he hadnt been told the outcome of his 
application and that he hadnt received a request to upload the documents providing 
evidence of his income. He also says he was considering cancelling his credit card and not 
adding a second card holder, which he was initially planning to do.
Following Mr Hs email, HSBC sent a letter apologising the incorrect information had been 
provided to him when he requested his limit to be increased. They credited £395 to his 
account which included compensation of £200. This also covered the future fee for his credit 
card and the fee of £60 should he wish to add the second card holder.
I do acknowledge Mr H was given incorrect information and this must have been 
disappointing for him. And I also note Mr H has said he planned to spend this money. Although HSBC were wrong to tell Mr H his application had been accepted subject to 
evidence of his income, I dont think HSBC acted unfairly in declining his application. HSBC 
rectified this mistake fairly quickly  within four days and apologised for the error. Taking 
everything into account, I think the compensation of £200 is fair and reasonable.
Mr H has said although hes been refunded the card fee, hes received a free year of credit 
card services from a bank hes lost his confidence in. I can understand why he feels this way 
and arguably Mr H could have decided to end his relationship with HSBC. However, I do 
note hes said he was awaiting refunds to his account so he wasnt able to switch credit card 
providers. 
Much like the investigator, I think Mr H couldve discussed this with HSBC to see whether 
any alternative arrangements could have been made whilst he was waiting these refunds. 
But I think its unlikely Mr H wouldve wanted to close his credit card given that he had his 
existing credit limit of £12,000.
Whilst HSBC provided Mr H with incorrect information, they have requested the removal of 
the credit search on his credit file which will put him back in the position had HSBC not 
conducted a search. HSBC have provided Mr H with £395 and for the reasons Ive explained 
above, I think this is a fair resolution to the complaint, so I wont be asking HSBC to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman