DRN-3643120
The complaint
Mrs Ws complaint is about the refusal of a claim she made under her pet insurance policy
with Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in July 2022, the main parts of which are copied 
below: 
Mrs Ws policy provides cover for vet treatment costs of up to £2,000 for each condition. In
December 2020, Mrs W submitted a claim for the cost of scans for her dog, as he had been
exhibiting signs of pain in his back. Red Sands met the costs up to £2,000. Mrs W says the
scans did not identify the problem but as the pain didnt go away, she sought a second
opinion and her dog then had an operation for a trapped nerve, costing over £3,000, which
she paid for herself.
In May 2021, Mrs W submitted a second claim for the costs of another operation (over
£6,500) as her dog had further spinal problems which had caused him paralysis in his back
legs. Mrs W says this was a result of an exploding disc in the centre of his back.
Red Sands refused the claim, as it said the second operation was for the same condition as
the first claim, disc extrusion, and it had already paid out the policy limit for the year June
2020 to June 2021.
Mrs W is very unhappy about this and says the scans Red Sands paid for were purely
investigatory as a result of non-specific pain, and no diagnosis of any condition was made at
the time. The second claim was for intervertebral disc extrusion. Mrs W says Red Sands is
linking the issues after the event to avoid the claim but they are unrelated. Mrs W submitted
letters from the two vets that treated her dog, who both said the incidents were unrelated.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He was persuaded by the statements of the
two treating vets and so recommended the complaint be upheld and that Red Sands should
meet the claim, subject to the remaining policy terms (including the policy limit).
Red Sands does not accept the Investigators assessment. It says the policy defines a
condition as being any manifestation of the same disease process, regardless of the area of
the body affected. Mrs Ws breed of dog is genetically predisposed to intervertebral disc
diseases and her dog displayed this disc degeneration in multiple discs since 2019. The MRI
carried out in 2020 showed chronic changes to discs L1-7 in the lumbar region. The dog
then had an operation to rectify disc extrusion in L6-7 and the June 2021 claim was for disc
extrusion in L1-2. The vets notes say the degenerative changes in the discs had been
causing intermittent symptoms since 2019 and due to the genetic predisposition to
degenerative disc problems in this breed of dog, it is likely there will be similar incidents in
other areas of the spine.
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy will pay up to £2,000 for any one condition in each policy year. It defines a
condition as being:
any injury sustained during, or resulting from, a single accident or any manifestation of an
illness having the same diagnostic classification or resulting from the same disease process
regardless of the number of incidents or areas of your pets body affected.
The claim in December 2020 was for the cost of scans to try and identify the cause of back
pain in the dog. Mrs W says the scans paid for were purely investigatory and so it is unfair to
link them to the second claim. They were investigatory but it is not reasonable to ignore the
fact that further tests done shortly afterwards found the cause of the pain to be intervertebral
disc extrusion in L6-7 that required surgery. Just because Red Sands didnt pay for that first
operation (as the policy claim limit had already been met with the cost of the scans) doesnt
mean it cannot take into account that diagnosis and treatment. So it is my opinion the first
claim was for disc degeneration and disc extrusion in L6-7.
For Red Sands to be able to refuse the second claim, it has to establish that the second
claim was for a manifestation of an illness of the same diagnostic classification and same
disease process as the disc extrusion in December 2020.
The MRI performed in March 2021 confirmed a L1-L2 disc extrusion. Red Sands consultant
vet says the rupture of disc L1-2 was typical of a rupture of an already degenerated rupture
(as opposed to a traumatic rupture which might occur due to an accident or injury). The vet
said that this was therefore a result of the same genetic degenerative process as the
extrusion in L6-7, and it is common for different parts of the spine to cause problems at
different times.
The first treating vet also provided further information in response to Red Sands:
I am writing to confirm that [the dogs]  more recent condition differs from that for which he
was treated by myself  in December 2020. The former condition was a lateralised
intervertebral disc extrusion at the level of L6/7, causing severe pain and lameness. The
more recent condition was an intervertebral disc extrusion at the level of L1/2 that was
associated with paralysis of the hindlimbs. The two conditions are unrelated other than by
breed predisposition; the clinical signs, anatomical location and treatment were markedly
different.
I do not think that the definition of a condition currently extends to its [assumed] genetic
basis because there are many other factors that contribute to disease expression.
And the vet that treated the dog in June 2021 has also said the dog was treated for an
intervertebral disc extrusion at L1-L2 the dog had been treated previously for intervertebral
disc disease, but at a different site, which would make them unrelated to each other.
However, this vet had submitted the claim in June 2021 as a continuation claim which
would indicate they considered the two incidents to be related at that time.
While both vets say they think the incidents are unrelated this seems to be mainly on the
basis that different parts of the spine were affected. The first vet also says there were
different clinical signs  with the first causing lameness and pain and the second paralysis -
and different treatment was required.The policy does not require that the same symptoms be displayed, or for them to be in that
same part of the body, for the incidents to be considered to be part of the same condition.
Both treating vets confirmed that both incidents were a result of disc extrusion. So this
seems to me to confirm that they had the same diagnostic classification and same disease
process. In accordance with the policy definition, this would mean they are the same
condition. The fact that different areas of the spine were affected on each occasion does not
change this, as the definition of condition says it has to be the same disease process
regardless of the area of the body affected.
And there is no suggestion of any injury or traumatic event that would have caused the
second incident and meant it can reasonably be disassociated from the degenerative disc
changes already identified.
Having considered everything and for the reasons set out above, I do not therefore consider
Red Sands has acted unreasonably in refusing the second claim.
I understand Mrs W will be disappointed with this decision, having already received a
recommendation from the Investigator that Red Sands should pay this claim. However, both
parties are entitled to appeal to an ombudsman - the final stage in our process - and it is my
role to review the matter afresh and make my own decision as to the appropriate outcome.
For the reasons given, I do not agree with the Investigators recommended outcome.
My provisional decision
I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any information or arguments 
they want considered. 
Red Sands has not responded. 
Mrs W has responded and does not accept my provisional decision. She is extremely 
disappointed in the outcome and feels it is unfair, as pet insurance companies seem to get 
away with refusing claims through loop hole after loop hole. I feel the industry is dishonest 
and purely money making with little interest for pet welfare.
Mrs W says the first claim (for the cost of CT an MRI scans) was accepted and dealt with by 
Red Sands on the basis it was for "non specific intermittent pain" because the vet was not 
able to identify the problem even after these tests. At no point did he advise that there were 
slipped or protruding discs. Mrs W therefore does not understand how Red Sands can link 
this to the later claim, as if the vet didn't know there was disc extrusion causing the pain at 
that time, how could she know? The claim didnt even refer to spinal pain but was so vague
and left completely open to any interpretation they later chose.
She asks me to reconsider, as Red Sands has used this lack of clarity against her so it can 
later link any condition to this diagnosis.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I can understand Mrs Ws disappointment. However, I disagree that this is a loophole, or that 
Red Sands deliberately identified the first claim as being for unspecified pain, in order to 
later link it to any subsequent claim. 
The first vet was not able to identify the source of pain in December 2020, but it is clear the 
pain was in the dogs spine; the vet recorded that he thought the pain was related to an 
acute flair up of disc problems (which had first been noted in April 2019 and recorded as 
probably being the result of degenerative disc disease) and the referral for the scans says 
suspect acute cervical spinal pain. The first vet couldnt identify the specific source of the 
pain in December 2020 but did identify degeneration in the discs from the scans.
The second vet carried out further tests shortly afterwards and found the cause of the pain to 
be intervertebral disc extrusion in L6-7 that required surgery. As stated in my provisional 
decision, it is not reasonable to disregard that shortly afterwards the cause of the pain was 
identified as being due to disc extrusion. It is also not necessary for Mrs W (or the vet) to 
have been aware that the pain was caused by disc extrusion at the time the first claim was 
submitted for them to be linked.  
It doesnt matter therefore that the claim was said to be for intermittent non-specific pain as it 
was later identified that the cause of that pain was disc extrusion. And it is not the fact that 
the first claim was dealt with as being for non-specific pain that allowed Red Sands to link it 
to later claim; it is the fact that both claims were the result of disc extrusion. 
Having considered all the evidence again, including Mrs Ws response to my provisional 
decision, I remain of the opinion that both claims related to the same disease
process and therefore in accordance with the policy definition this would mean they are the 
same condition.  I do not therefore consider Red Sands acted unreasonably in refusing the 
second claim.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman