DRN-4085872
The complaint
Mrs J and Mr J complain about Baxendale Insurance Company (BIC) and the way they 
handled the claim they made for goods damaged during their international move.
Mrs J has acted as the main representative during the claim and complaint process. So, for 
ease of reference, I will refer to any actions taken, and comments made, by either Mrs J or 
Mr J as Mrs J throughout the decision. 
What happened
In October 2021, Mrs J instructed a removal and transport business, who Ill refer to as P, 
to remove household items, including cars, from their home in the UK and transport them 
globally to another country. When instructing P to take on this work, Mrs J also agreed to be 
covered by an International Transit Insurance policy, underwritten by BIC.
Mrs J submitted an itemised proposal form to BIC, who agreed to insure Mrs J for her 
household goods and her motor vehicles during the storage and transit process. The goods 
were collected by P in January 2022, and they were delivered to Mrs J in her new location in 
June.
But when Mrs J inspected her items, she found several to be damaged or in some cases, 
lost. This included Mrs Js car. So, she contacted BIC to make a claim on the insurance 
policy. BIC used a separate company, who Ill refer to as C, to manage claims such as the 
one Mrs J made on their behalf. As C were acting as an agent of BIC, I think BIC are 
responsible for the actions C took during the claim process. And so, I will refer to any actions 
C took as though they were made by BIC.
BIC considered Mrs Js claim and settled it in part. But Mrs J remained unhappy with several 
aspects of the settlement BIC put forward. So, she raised a complaint.
Mrs J was unhappy with the way BIC had calculated the settlement amounts for certain 
items. And she was unhappy that other items had been declined altogether. Mrs J was also 
unhappy that BIC were refusing to cover the repairs needed to her car, that she feels were 
caused by P during transit, which she said had been confirmed in person when she came to 
inspect it. So, she wanted BIC to accept her claim for both her household goods and car in 
full. Plus, she wanted BIC to pay her £100 a day in administration costs for the delays she 
experienced when waiting for the claim to be settled satisfactorily.
BIC responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They felt the way they calculated their 
offer to settle Mrs Js claim was fair, and in line with the policy terms and conditions. And 
they thought their offer to contribute 50% of the costs required to repair the bumper to Mrs 
Js car was a reasonable one, as a gesture of good will, to recognise that further damage 
may have been caused in transit. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mrs 
J remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought BIC had 
assessed Mrs Js claim for her household goods fairly, in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy Mrs J held. And they thought BICs offer regarding Mrs Js car was a fair one, 
based on the evidence that had been supplied which they didnt think showed for certain 
damage was caused while the car was in transit. So, they didnt think BIC needed to do 
anything more.
Mrs J didnt agree. And she provided extensive, detailed comments explaining why. These 
included, and are not limited to, her belief the statutory declaration she provided to support 
her testimony should be enough to prove it had been admitted by agents of P that the car 
had been damaged during transit. And that she felt the condition report signed in January 
2022 had been altered after the fact. So, she thought BIC should cover the total costs 
needed to repair the car. Mrs J also felt her overall costs she was claiming for were 
reasonable and that, as the policy explained she needed to prove replacement costs which 
she had, she felt full replacement costs of the damaged items should be provided. 
Our investigator considered all of the comments provided, as well as additional evidence Mrs 
J supplied. But their view remained unchanged. Mrs J continued to disagree, believing she 
had been misled by the policy documentation and claim process. And she maintained her 
view that the evidence supplied showed the car had been damaged in transit and so, the full 
repair costs should be paid. As Mrs J didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs J. I recognise moving all 
her possessions internationally wouldve been extremely inconvenient. And, that she 
appointed P to help alleviate the inconvenience and anxiety this no doubt wouldve caused. I 
also recognise Mrs J agreed to take out the policy underwritten by BIC to help cover any 
financial losses this process may incur, due to the dangers associated with transporting 
goods such a long distance. So, when Mrs J discovered several of her possessions were 
damaged and that BIC werent willing to cover what she felt were reasonable costs to 
replace or repair these, I can understand why Mrs J would feel unfairly treated and feel the 
need to complain.
But for me to say BIC should do something more than theyve offered already, such as 
settling Mrs Js total claim in full, I first need to be satisfied BIC have done something wrong. 
So, Id need to be satisfied BIC failed to act in line with the policy terms and conditions when 
they calculated the offer put to Mrs J. Or, if I think they did act within these, that it was unfair 
for BIC to do so. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached this decision, I think its important to explain my role, and 
exactly what Ive been able to consider. It is not my role to re-underwrite the claim, or act in a 
way similar to a loss adjustor and determine exactly what should be paid and for how much, 
as I dont have the expertise to do so. Instead, it is my role to consider the service BIC have 
provided, which includes their overall decision on the claim and their application of any terms 
and conditions and decide whether I think theyve acted fairly and reasonably overall. 
I think its also worth pointing out that, while BIC provided Mrs J with an insurance policy to cover the goods she was transporting, it was P who arranged and completed the actual 
removal and transportation. So, BIC werent the party that damaged or lost any of Mrs Js 
items. And so, Id only expect them to pay Mrs Js claim where the claim fell in line with the 
policy terms and conditions, as these terms set out. Any complaint specifically about the way 
the goods were transported would need to be raised with P directly.
I also dont intend to discuss each of the items Mrs J has claimed for individually. But I want 
to reassure Mrs J Ive considered all the information shes provided, and all the comments 
shes made, in relation to all the items shes claimed for that remain in dispute.
BIC have provided several comments as to why these claims have either been rejected, or 
an offer made for an amount less than Mrs J was expecting. And all of these refer to the 
policy terms and conditions, so Ive considered these at length. 
In the policy exclusions, it states clearly that BIC wouldnt pay for any item not listed on the 
proposal form. Ive seen the communication between Mrs J and BIC from the start of the 
policy and I think its made reasonably clear on several occasions that all items Mrs J 
wanted to be insured under the policy needed to be listed on this form, as it allowed BIC to 
calculate the total sum insured under the policy. And at the very top of the terms and 
conditions themselves, Mrs J is invited to put any questions or queries about the proposal 
form to her remover, who in this case would be P. If Mrs J feels shes been misled by P here, 
that would be a complaint to raise with P directly.
I recognise part of Mrs Js claim relates to items that were not listed on this form and so, 
where this is the case, I think BIC have acted fairly, and in line with the terms and conditions, 
when declining these aspects of the claim.
Also, at the top of the terms and conditions, it includes a detailed explanation of the proposal 
form, and what information its designed to capture. Within this section, it explains that if you 
have more than one of the same item, three televisions for example, and they are not of 
equal value, then they must be listed separately. If they are not listed separately, they will be 
treated as being of equal value in any claims settlement and you may receive a lower 
amount than the amount you have claimed.
The terms and conditions then go onto explain Mrs J had the option of purchasing pairs and 
sets cover, for an additional premium, which would ensure if part of a set or pair, such as the 
example above, was lost or damaged then Mrs J would be compensated for the full value of 
the damaged or missing part. Ive seen the policy schedule, and this confirms Mrs J didnt 
pay for this additional cover.
So, I think BIC were fair when relying on the term which states if you make a claim for an 
item which forms part of a matching pair, set, or suite, or matches another item of the same 
type, colour, or design, we will only pay for the cost of repair, or replacing the damaged item 
and lost parts. And, that when doing so, they could calculate the cost of this based on the 
average calculation they set out. So, for any aspect of Mrs Js claim where the damaged 
item was listed on the proposal form as part of a set or same type of item, for example the 
television, I think BIC have acted fairly when offering a payment based on an average of the 
total cost listed on the form, divided by the number of items.
The terms and conditions also explain that if any of Mrs Js goods cant be economically 
repaired, they will be considered a total loss. And, that a settlement will be offered on a full 
replacement value. But crucially, for this term to apply, I think its reasonable for BIC to ask 
Mrs J to prove an item is a total loss. In the situation Ive seen under this complaint, I dont 
think BIC have any evidence that shows them beyond doubt the item cannot be repaired and 
so, I dont think its unreasonable for BIC to withhold payment until this evidence is received.I also wouldnt expect BIC to make a payment under the policy for items which cant be 
validated, or proof of ownership shown. I recognise Mrs J believes some items have gone 
missing but has been unable to say for certain what these items were. And these items 
werent listed separately on the proposal form. So, without clarification on what the items lost 
were, and proof of ownership provided considering they werent listed separately on the 
proposal form, I wouldnt expect BIC to make payment at this time.
As I explained above, I havent discussed every item individually as its not my role to act as 
a loss adjustor, or to re-underwrite the claim. But I am satisfied that where BIC have offered 
a lower payment than Mrs J feels is fair, or not offered a payment at all, they have acted 
within the terms and conditions of the policy when doing so. And because of this, I dont 
think I can say BIC have acted unfairly, or unreasonably, when offering to settle the 
household goods aspect of Mrs Js claim.
I appreciate Mrs J is unlikely to agree with this. And I appreciate Mrs Js comments 
regarding why she was expected to provide information such as evidence of costs to replace 
the items if this information wasnt going to be used to settle the claim. But I dont think BIC 
have acted unfairly, or misled Mrs J in any way, by requesting this information as part of the 
claim process. I think this ensured BIC had all the information needed to assess Mrs Js 
claim fairly. But ultimately, they are entitled to settle the claim in line with the terms and 
conditions Mrs J agreed to when taking out the policy. And I think they have here. 
Ive then moved onto what I feel is the main point of contention, centring around the damage 
Mrs J feels was caused to her car during the transit process.
As I wasnt involved in this process, Im unable to say for certain what did, or didnt happen. 
So, Ive had to consider all the evidence provided to me and think about what I think was 
most likely to have happened, based on the balance of probabilities. And then, whether BIC 
have acted fairly considering this.
Ive seen the condition report signed by Mrs J on 14 January 2022 when the car was taken 
into storage. As it was signed by both Mrs J and the agents completing the transit, I think its 
fair for me to rely upon this document as an accurate reflection of the cars condition at that 
time. While I note Mrs Js concerns about the accuracy of this report, Im satisfied the report 
they held is the same as the one provided by BIC. I do note there is one specific point of 
dispute, which centres around the scratch notation on the bonnet, but Im satisfied that there 
is a corresponding marking for this on both copies. So, I dont think I have enough evidence 
that allows say for certain that the report BIC provided was purposefully altered to allow 
them to make a lesser payment after Mrs J raised her concerns.
I think this report shows that there were existing scratches and dents on the bumper of the 
car. And, that there were chips, rusting and scratches to the bonnet. And I recognise that the 
repairs Mrs J feels are needed to the car relate to damage present in these same areas. I 
also want to clarify that the numbers annotated on these areas simply state there was 
damage of this kind. It isnt intended to list the number of instances of this kind of damage 
and that this is standard industry process.
According to the terms and condition of the policy Mrs J held, BIC are only responsible for 
repairing damage caused to Mrs Js car caused in transit. And after considering all the 
photographic evidence available to me, alongside Mrs Js testimony, I dont think Im able to 
clearly determine what damage was present before the car was moved, to when it was 
received in a different global location.
And as its accepted there was damage to the car before it was moved, as shown in the 
condition report, I dont think it would be fair for me to say BIC should cover repairs to all the damage, as I think this would most likely be placing Mrs J in a position of betterment, which 
is something our service is unable to do under the rules we work within.
That being said, it is accepted that Mrs Js car battery was located under the bonnet. And, 
that this battery needed to be disconnected and reconnected before and after the transit. So, 
I think its likely work wouldve been completed around this area. And I think this aligns with 
Mrs Js testimony, where she states it was accepted by P, and their agents, that they had 
caused damage to the bonnet during this process. Although, I note this has since been 
disputed by P and their agents to BIC directly.
To consider this conflicting testimony, I note as a goodwill gesture, without accepting there 
was fault, BIC offered to pay Mrs J 50% of the costs to repair the damage to the bumper. 
And having thought about this, considering there is no substantial evidence available to me 
that I feel satisfies me beyond reasonable doubt what damage was present before and after 
transit, I think this offer is a fair one.
I think it shows BIC attempting to act in good faith, considering the conflicting testimony 
provided by P and Mrs J. And I think it also reasonably takes into consideration the fact that 
damage was noted on the condition report, that was signed by Mrs J. So, on this occasion, I 
dont think I can say BIC should do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs J was hoping for. And I understand due to the 
dispute surrounding the offer BIC made, Mrs J has been without access to the funds and so, 
wants to be compensated for this. But I note it was Mrs Js own decision to decline the offer 
put to her by BIC. And it was Mrs Js own decision to escalate her concerns to our service 
for investigation. Having considered the length of time it took BIC to make their offer, from 
the time Mrs J initially raised her claim, I dont think there were any unreasonable or 
unavoidable delays in the offer being put forward. And as Mrs J declined this offer, I dont 
think BIC are then ultimately responsible for the time Mrs J was without access to these 
funds from this point. So, I wont be recommending any additional compensation on this 
occasion.
But as BIC put an offer to settle the claim to Mrs J, I would expect this offer to remain on the 
table for Mrs J to now accept, should she wish to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs J and Mr Js complaint about The 
Baxendale Insurance Company.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman