DRN-3115190
The complaint
Mr C complains that XL Insurance Company SE (hereafter XL Insurance) unfairly declined 
his claim for income protection. 
What happened
Both sides are aware of the background to this complaint, so I have only provided a very 
brief summary of what happened.
Mr C (a private hire driver) had access to a group income protection policy. In June 2020 he 
made a claim on it and explained he had been unable to work for 14 days because hed 
been suffering from Covid-19, but this was declined.
XL Insurance said the policy required Mr C to have completed 150 trips in the eight weeks 
prior to it being made, and he hadnt done so. Mr C complained, but XL Insurance 
maintained its decision.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but didnt think Mr Cs complaint 
should be upheld. They agreed that Mr C hadnt met the policy requirements, but they did 
draw his attention to a separate assistance policy his employer held, and said he might wish 
to explore that instead. 
Mr C disagreed with our investigators opinion and said the circumstances surrounding his 
claim were outside of his control. He said it was unfair of XL Insurance to have expected him 
to complete 150 trips in the eight weeks prior to his claim. And he said doing so would have 
put his health at risk and there was little work he could have done anyway. He also said he 
didnt want to pursue the potential coverage available from the separate assistance policy, 
because the cover available under this income protection policy would pay more.
So as no agreement was reached the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I empathise with Mr Cs position, but I will not be upholding his complaint. 
Let me explain why. 
In line with the relevant rules and industry guidelines XL Insurance has a responsibility to 
consider claims both promptly and fairly. It must not reject them unreasonably either.
The terms and conditions of the income protection policy explain that cover is available for 
drivers in the event of severe sickness. Specifically, on page 24 under Severe Sickness and 
Bodily Injury Payment they say:
If whilst Off Trip the Active Partner Driver suffers a Severe Sickness or Bodily Injury 
and as a direct result become Inactive the Insurer will pay the Beneficiary the amount 
shown in the Schedule subject to the Excluded Period, Payment Period and the 
Maximum Incident Limit.
Within the same terms and conditions, Active Partner Driver is defined on page 7 as:
a Partner Driver who has completed a minimum of one hundred and fifty (150) Trips in 
the eight (8) weeks immediately prior to any incident which may give rise to a valid claim 
under this Policy
And on page 13 under Off Trip Covers the following is noted as a general policy condition:
The coverages sections 14, 15 and 16 shall only apply to Active Partner Drivers.
So, in order for Mr C to have had a valid claim, one of the first things hed need to 
demonstrate was that he was an active partner driver  and that would mean having 
completed a minimum of 150 trips in the eight weeks before his claim. Both sides are aware 
that Mr C did not complete this number of trips however. And so I dont think it was 
unreasonable of XL Insurance to conclude that he hadnt satisfied the relevant policy terms. 
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality. They are designed to cover a 
list of specific insured events, and I think the requirements needing to be met in order for 
Mr C to obtain cover under this policy are set out in a clear and transparent way. 
I have no reason to doubt that Mr C may have found it difficult to meet the above terms and I 
empathise with the concerns he had about both working and the availability of the work itself. 
But Im not persuaded that itd fair of me to hold XL Insurance liable for this. And I dont think 
Mr Cs apparent difficulties mean it should automatically follow that his claim be accepted. 
It is clear that Mr C feels very strongly about what has happened, but for the reasons given 
above I cannot fairly direct XL Insurance to accept his claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman