DRN-3517957
The complaint
Mr G complains that Covea Insurance plc mishandled a claim on his motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Covea, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Covea 
responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
For the year from early June 2020, Mr G had his vehicle insured on a policy under which 
Covea was responsible for dealing with any claim. A third party made a claim to Covea that 
on 8 July 2020 Mr G had damaged the third partys vehicle at a filling station. Covea 
contacted Mr G about that in mid- August 2020. He denied hitting the third partys vehicle or 
causing the damage.
But Covea said it would settle the third partys claim. Mr G complained to Covea about that. 
By a final response dated 22 September 2021, Covea turned down that complaint. Mr G 
brought his complaint to us in late February 2022.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Covea came to a fair outcome based on the information they were provided with.
Mr G disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He did not hit the third partys car.
The tiny mark to his car isnt consistent with the scratching claimed by the third party.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like most motor policies, Coveas policy had a term allowing it to decide how to deal with a 
claim from a third party. Coveas term was as follows:
We are entitled to decide exactly how to carry out any legal proceedings or settle 
any claim and to:
 take over and defend or settle any claim in the name of any person, company, or 
firm insured by the policy;
The effect of that term was that  on an issue of how to deal with a third partys claim - 
Coveas view would prevail over Mr Gs.
I will consider whether Covea has applied that term fairly. Unlike a court, the Financial 
Ombudsman Service doesnt hear evidence from each driver in order to decide the extent to 
which either of them is responsible for causing damage.
The third partys insurer sent Covea CCTV. That showed Mr Gs vehicle reversing into the 
third partys at low speed. It showed Mr G stop, get out of his vehicle and inspect the offside 
of his vehicle and the nearside of the third partys vehicle. So I can see why Covea didnt 
consider that it could defend Mr Gs position that he hadnt hit the third partys vehicle.
Covea sent an assessor to inspect Mr Gs vehicle in late August 2020. Mr G understood 
from the assessor that he would look at the third partys vehicle but Covea has said that this 
didnt happen. 
The assessor reported that Mr G had shown him an image of the third partys vehicle. And 
the assessor reported that the damage to the third partys vehicle was wider than was 
consistent with the damage to Mr Gs vehicle.
But I find it likely that Covea took the view that the damage to the third partys vehicle was in 
a location on the nearside that was consistent with the third partys claim and the CCTV  so 
it wouldve been problematic to defend in court.
Any court case wouldve included Mr Gs evidence that he hadnt hit the third party. That 
wouldve been problematic because it wasnt what the CCTV showed.
Covea had to decide whether to settle the third partys claim or to defend a likely court case. 
Covea decided to settle the third partys claim. Covea decided not to incur the cost and risk 
of defending a court case. 
I find it likely that the decision will have tended to increase Mr Gs cost of insurance for a few 
years.
However, I keep in mind the policy term quoted above. I also keep in mind the problematic 
features of defending the third partys claim in any court case. So I cant say that Coveas 
decision was unreasonable or treated Mr G unfairly. I dont find it fair and reasonable to 
direct Covea to change the way it has recorded the claim or to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Covea Insurance plc to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman