DRN-3471939
The complaint
Miss H complains that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
The details provided about the loan show that the loan was for £1,000 to be repaid over 18 
monthly instalments of £205.56, by the end of the term, Miss H was due to repay around 
£3,700, more than three and half times the capital borrowed. 
When Miss H complained to L2G about the loan, it didnt uphold her complaint, it said the 
loan was responsibly lent. Unhappy with L2Gs response, Miss H referred her complaint to 
this service.
The adjudicator that looked at Miss Hs complaint thought it should be upheld, he said L2G 
didnt do enough before agreeing the loan and had it carried out proportionate checks it 
would have seen that there was a significant risk Miss H would struggle to repay the loan. 
L2G disagreed it said its checks went far enough and there was nothing concerning that it 
found.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loans were offered. Having done so, Im upholding Miss Hs complaint and 
Ive explained why below:
When Miss H applied for the loan, she told L2G that she had three dependents. 
Looking at the cost and term of this loan, I would have expected L2G to get a 
thorough understanding of Miss Hs financial circumstances before lending. Im also 
mindful that L2Gs own checks showed that Miss H was using several credit 
accounts, including credit cards, mail order accounts and at least another loan. Some 
of her credit card balances were very close to the limit and Miss Hs balance on all 
her credit card accounts were more than half of the limit, the credit search also 
showed that Miss H was in at least one arrangement to pay. 
Taking all these factors together, L2G should have been looking to take its checks 
further to get a clearer picture of Miss Hs finances before agreeing to lend. 
Miss H has provided her bank statements from the time of the loan and the 
statements show that Miss H was repaying several creditors. Her credit commitments 
around the time of the loan was around £490, her living costs which included her 
regular direct debit payments, food and rent was around £1,605. Miss Hs income 
included her wages and benefits which amounted to around £2,345. Based on this, 
Miss H wouldnt have sufficient disposable income to repay the loan sustainably over 
the term.
I think this was borne out when Miss H encountered problems with her repayments 
within a short time and only managed to make one full contractual payment. Had L2G 
carried out sufficient checks, it would have seen that this would likely be the case and 
it wouldnt have lent to Miss H in the circumstances. Overall, Miss H had several 
credit commitments and had showed signs she was struggling to manage her 
finances.
L2G needs to put things right for Miss H.
Putting things right
To put things right Loans 2 Go Limited should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan.
Treat any payments made by Miss H as payments towards the capital amount of 
£1,000,
after reworking the account, it is likely Miss H will still have an outstanding balance, 
L2G should agree a suitable repayment plan with Miss H,
if however there are overpayments, then L2G should add interest at 8% simple on 
the overpayments from the date they were paid, if they were, to the date of 
settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Hs credit file as a result of the 
interest and charges on the loan.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go Limited to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
Limited must give Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Hs complaint and require Loans 2 Go Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman