DRN-3029142
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1994. Mrs R says Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Rs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Rs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Rs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Rs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Mrs R has told us the PPI was included as part of the mortgage package but hasnt given 
us any further recollection of what happened other than it was sold to her at a meeting. 
There isnt any documentation available from the time of the sale, but I dont find this 
surprising given how long ago the sale took place  nearly 30 years ago  and 
businesses arent obliged to keep paperwork indefinitely. In such a situation I need to 
decide what I think is most likely to have happened, based on the very limited 
information available to me and for me to uphold the complaint I would have to think that 
Mrs Rs account was more likely than that of BOSs. 
As Mrs R has said the sale was made during a meeting, I think it most likely that the 
policy would have been discussed with her by the adviser she saw. BOS hasnt been 
able to give us any information about the time of the sale and Ive thought carefully about 
this and also taken into account Mrs Rs recollections from nearly 30 years ago may 
have been affected over time.
When taking everything into account, including what we know about BOSs sales 
processes from the relevant time period, I havent seen enough to say that its more 
likely that BOS didnt make it clear the policy was optional or that Mrs R didnt agree to 
take it. 
BOS has assumed it recommended the PPI to Mrs R, so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for her. And the evidence about Mrs Rs circumstances at the time, shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For example, Mrs R was eligible 
for the cover and she didnt have any means to fall back on  she wouldnt receive any 
employee benefits if she was too unwell to work and didnt have any savings she could 
have relied upon  so she had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mrs Rs employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Although Mrs R says she had a medical condition some time 
before the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for BOS to have recommended 
it. I say this because the condition was a broken bone which happened in Mrs Rs 
childhood and she didnt tell us of any subsequent problems so I think it unlikely Mrs R 
would have needed to have made a claim on the policy because of it. 
Its possible the information BOS gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out  so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs R as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. Mrs R has said she was a single parent at the time, she was 
financially stretched and that every penny counted. Ive thought about this and I think 
that as Mrs R was solely responsible for the mortgage at the time, the policy would have 
given her a level of financial security that she wouldnt otherwise have had. It would have 
protected her mortgage repayments in the event she wasnt working   and as Ive said 
above, she didnt have any other financial means she could have relied upon  so it 
seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I 
dont think Mrs R would have declined the cover had BOS done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mrs Rs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations, 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So, I think she would have 
still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs R would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide 
a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Rs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant BOS should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Rs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Rs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Rs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means BOS doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman