DRN-3259316
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that National Westminster Bank Plc unreasonably stopped them 
from buying some shares using their debit card.
What happened
In November 2020, Mr and Mrs S were given an opportunity to buy some shares in a 
company. But they had to make the purchase by 11 November to get the deal. So on 
10 November, Mr S used his joint account debit card to purchase shares for both himself 
and Mrs S.
NatWests records show they stopped both payments. But Mr and Mrs S thought the 
purchases had gone ahead the online payment process apparently told Mr S hed been 
successful. 
It was only on 12 November, when Mr S called NatWest after noticing his online account 
was blocked, that the stopped payments came to light. Mr S was able to unblock his card 
and account. But because the 11 November cut-off for the share deal had passed, Mr and 
Mrs S were no longer able to take part in the deal.
In response to Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint, NatWest explained that:
they felt it reasonable to stop the purchase when they had a suspicion about fraud;
theyd acted correctly, and under the terms of the account;
they aimed to contact Mr and Mrs S within 72 hours of the transaction being blocked, 
but Mr S called them earlier than that; and
the time it took Mr S to get through on the phone was the result of measures taken to 
slow the spread of Covid-19.
NatWest offered Mr S some compensation for delays in their complaint handling. I wont be 
looking at that in this decision, as the focus is the failed payments on 10 November.
Mr and Mrs S brought the complaint to us. Ive made a couple of provisional decisions as my 
understanding of the facts of the case has developed. My last decision explained that I found 
it had been reasonable for NatWest to stop the purchases, but they hadnt then acted in line 
with the terms and conditions for the account. If they had, I concluded Mr and Mrs S would 
probably have made the purchases successfully before the 11 November cut-off.
NatWest have responded saying they had no further points to make, except they would only 
be able to carry my proposed remedy out by making a cash payment to Mr and Mrs Ss 
account. Mr and Mrs S have expanded on points Id considered in my decision, explaining 
why they dont agree with my view. 
The case is now ready for me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that my most recent provisional decision was the right one for 
this case. I intend to repeat the key points here in my final decision, but Ill add a few 
comments to explain why my view isnt changed by the comments Ive received. 
I find it was reasonable NatWest stopped the payments in this case. I appreciate Mr S has 
listed all the indications he feels there were to say this was a legitimate transaction. And hes 
more recently questioned the payment process that failed to tell him NatWests system had 
detected a discrepancy in the expiry date he entered online. 
But I accept that the fraud software  programmed with an awareness of a wide range of 
scams and fraud techniques  raised a suspicion about something in this transaction. Im not 
in a position to review the programming of that software, or to compare it with the wide range 
of methods used by fraudsters. Its enough for my decision to say that NatWest can 
reasonably use and rely on automated fraud detection software to help them efficiently keep 
their customers accounts safe.
Neither decision shows any link to the age of Mr and Mrs S. So while I appreciate they feel
theyve been discriminated against, theres no evidence to lead me to that conclusion. I 
havent asked them specifically if they have discriminated based on age  rather Ive 
accepted their explanation that the fraud detection software identified something suspicious 
about Mr Ss first transaction. 
The issue remains with how NatWest communicated to Mr and Mrs S that the purchases 
hadnt gone ahead. The terms and conditions for the account explain NatWest may 
suspend, restrict or stop access to a customers account or other services, if they suspect a 
fraud has taken place, or to protect the account. But the terms go on to say:
Well usually tell you before or immediately after we take any of these steps.
NatWest have said to me that its unrealistic to expect them to achieve what this term says 
theyll do. But I dont consider that to be a reasonable position. The terms and conditions for 
an account should stand as the basis for the service NatWest will provide. If a particular term 
cant be achieved it should be changed, rather than not followed.
Last time I considered a selection of other decisions wed made  sent to me by NatWest  
which considered the 72-hour timescale NatWest say they work to. But I explained those 
decisions dont mention the specific term Ive quoted above. Im unsure if it should have 
been considered in those other cases, as I dont know the full details of them. But Im certain 
this term applies to Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Since the term applies, I must consider its use of the word immediately against the 72-hour 
timescale NatWest was aiming to deliver. I find a reasonable interpretation is that 
immediately is a much shorter space of time than 72 hours.
Im not convinced by comments NatWest made to me saying they may not have been able 
to lift the block on the account before the 11 November cut-off. It doesnt look like a great 
deal of time was needed on 12 November to lift the block, once Mr S got through on the 
phone. And the block related only to a fraud suspicion from the automated software, rather 
than it being linked to an established fraud or scam that needed in depth investigation.
Putting things rightNatWest should try to get Mr and Mrs S to the position they would have been in, if the 
service had been reasonable. Here, that means if NatWest had told Mr S theyd stopped the 
first purchase and blocked his card immediately after they did it. In my opinion  based on 
what Ive seen in this case  hed most likely have been able to see neither purchase had 
succeeded in time to try again, and been successful. 
Because they didnt buy the shares available to them, Mr and Mrs S received 57.55p per 
share they could have bought. They also didnt spend the 32p per share that it would have 
cost them to buy the shares available to them. So technically, the poor service from NatWest 
led to a benefit of 89.55p per share for each share they couldnt buy.
Theres an overall financial loss though because the shares today trade higher than that 
amount - 123.24p per share at the time of writing. The net loss can be found by subtracting 
89.55p from 123.24p  or whatever the share price happens to be when the remedy is 
carried out  and then multiplying that by the total number of shares Mr and Mrs S were 
going to buy. 
For Mr S, thats 5,380 shares, and for Mrs S, 3,426, each multiplied by 33.69p using todays 
share price. That gives an indicative loss of £2,966.74, but the exact amount will depend on 
what the share price is when NatWest carry out the remedy. 
I note Mr and Mrs S still feel some benefit of the doubt should be given to say theyd have 
sold the shares at a time when they could have profited more from having them. But I find 
that too speculative a remedy for this case. My decision is based on what  more likely than 
not  would have happened if the service had been reasonable. Im not looking to punish the 
business for a mistake, by saying Mr and Mrs S would have acted in the most profitable way 
possible. 
I do however feel some compensation is justified to recognise the upset and inconvenience 
caused for Mr and Mrs S by the failing in this case. Picking an amount is a matter of opinion, 
and I note Mr and Mrs S dont feel the £200 I suggested previously does enough to 
acknowledge the impact this matters had on both of them.
But my reasoning has considered the facts of the case. This was a loss of an investment 
opportunity for Mr and Mrs S, rather than a loss of their actual money. Although they didnt 
receive a profitable asset at the time, the failing here did ultimately leave them with more 
cash available to them. This is rather different to cases we sometimes see where people 
have been caused anguish in their day-to-day finances. 
Im still of the view £200 recognises the impact NatWests poor service had in this case. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc/ To 
put things right, NatWest should pay Mr and Mrs S the following:
The difference between 89.55p and the share price of the shares they failed to buy in 
November 2020.
£200 to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 Paul Mellor
Ombudsman