The complaint
Mrs S complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (AmEx) told her 
she was in credit, and gave her a large refund. Mrs S relied on what AmEx said, and spent 
the money. But then it said she wasnt in credit, and added the money to her debt. 
What happened
Mrs S contacted AmEx to check the balance on her card. She was told she was just under 
£2,000 in credit. She asked AmEx to double-check, because she said it had made mistakes 
about her balance before, but AmEx was sure, and it would issue a cheque for the balance. 
Mrs S rang back a couple of days later, and was told the cheque was on its way. So she 
spent this money. AmEx then said that the balance had been wrong after all, and Mrs S 
owed it well over £2,000. Her card was over the limit. 
Mrs S says she would never have spent this money without the repeated reassurances from 
AmEx. She said AmEx had blamed her, for making frequent smaller payments towards her 
debt. She thought that was ridiculous, and anyway, shed only made two larger payments to 
her balance. She thought this was all AmExs fault, and it should remove the disputed 
amount from her balance. And she was worried about how this would affect her credit file.
AmEx said that frequent small payments towards the card debt can lead to problems with an 
inaccurate balance. And it said that when Mrs S rang back to find out if her cheque had been 
issued, she didnt ask what her balance was. If she had, it wouldve told her that she was in 
debt. AmEx didnt think it had made a mistake, and it wouldnt do anything to help.
Mrs S complained to our service. She later contacted us again to say shed stopped paying 
towards the debt, because AmEx was asking for ridiculous monthly amounts. 
AmEx showed us that Mrs S had made frequent small payments towards her card debt, in 
the month before AmEx made the mistake about her balance. When Mrs S rang, AmEx says 
that she was actually a little less than £50 in credit. Mrs S rang again to make sure the 
cheque was on the way, she said then that her balance was £300 and said shed pay that 
once she got AmExs cheque. AmEx said it had acted in good faith.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He said it was AmExs 
responsibility to ensure that advice it gives about an account balance is correct. He said 
AmEx shouldve done further checks before issuing a refund that pushed a customer over 
her account limit. But Mrs S had benefitted from having the money, so he wouldnt ask AmEx 
to write off this amount. Instead, he said that it should do the following:
pay Mrs S £150 for trouble and upset,
waive late payment charges and interest for going over her limit,
DRN-1962469allow a payment arrangement to pay off £1,974 over a reasonable time frame, and
amend any adverse credit file entries caused by the incorrect refund of £1,974. 
Mrs S didnt think £150 was enough to make up for what had gone wrong. Our investigator 
told Mrs S that AmEx had agreed with his proposal, but she needed to make a payment onto 
her account urgently, or it would be closed. AmEx couldnt stop that from happening. Mrs S 
didnt want the card any more anyway, but she did want more compensation. 
Our investigator didnt change his mind, and Mrs S said AmEx was getting away too lightly. 
As no agreement was reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Things started to go wrong when Mrs S received a large refund cheque, although 
AmEx didn't owe her this money. AmEx said Mrs S caused this, by making multiple 
smaller payments towards her debt, which confused its system. I can see she did 
make multiple small payments. But I think AmEx is primarily responsible for making 
sure information on account balances is correct. And if its going to issue a large 
cheque, there is an onus on it to make sure that the account really does have a 
positive balance, to avoid just what happened here. Its unfortunate that AmEx 
appears to have realised, by the time it issued Mrs S with a cheque, that she didnt 
have a positive balance on her account, but the cheque was still issued and allowed to 
clear. 
Mrs S did get the money from this cheque, so our investigator said she benefitted from 
it. I know that Mrs S doesnt feel she has benefitted from this money. She thinks its 
been much more trouble than it was worth. But all our investigator meant when he said 
that, was that Mrs S had had, and spent, this money. I know AmEx made a mistake in 
paying this money to Mrs S, but I dont think that means she can just keep it. I agree 
that AmEx doesnt have to simply write off the mistaken refund it made. Mrs S should 
pay it back. 
This isnt the same as ordinary card spending. So I dont think its appropriate for this 
mistaken refund to be treated immediately as an ordinary credit card debt. I think 
AmEx should make some changes to how it is treating this debt.
Ive also got to bear in mind that Mrs S doesnt just owe AmEx the wrongly 
refunded £1,974. Earlier this month, AmEx calculated Mrs Ss total debt to it as 
£2,764.29. 
AmEx has now stopped applying fees and interest to this amount. But some of this 
debt is still made up of interest and late fees AmEx applied earlier in the dispute. I 
think those amounts should simply be refunded, given the ongoing dispute between 
Mrs S and AmEx, and that she did stop using her card once she realised the problem. 
That refund should be used to reduce the overall debt Mrs S has to AmEx. I 
understand this will reduce her debt by around £400. 
Mrs S will still owe AmEx more than the mistaken refund of £1,974. She also 
owes money she spent on ordinary card purchases. That has nothing to do with the 
mistaken refund. So I think, once the refund is made, AmEx should split this debt into 
two separate amounts. AmEx should allow Mrs S six months to pay off the £1,974 of debt that I think was 
caused by the incorrect refund, starting from the date that my final decision on this 
case is accepted by Mrs S. AmEx shouldnt apply any interest or record any adverse 
credit file entries for this debt during this time. After this time, if Mrs S hasnt paid off 
the amount in full, AmEx can treat this debt as it would any other card debt. 
Ive said the refund Mrs S got isnt an ordinary card debt. And I dont think its 
appropriate for this unresolved dispute to adversely affect Mrs Ss credit file. So AmEx 
must update Mrs Ss credit file to delete all adverse entries caused by this incorrect 
refund, and the subsequent dispute between Mrs S and AmEx. 
Once its refunded all the interest and late fees that it applied after 13 July 2019, and 
separated out the refund amount of £1,974, AmEx should give Mrs S one month to 
pay the remaining debt in the same way as it would any other outstanding balance. 
Again, that will start from the date that my final decision on this case is accepted by 
Mrs S. After that month, AmEx can treat this as it would any other outstanding card 
debt. That means recovery action may begin for this amount. Any record of this debt 
on Mrs Ss credit file should not show it as outstanding prior to the end of this one 
month grace period. 
I do think that this problem has been mainly caused by AmEx. And it has caused Mrs 
S considerable difficulty, at a time when she understood shed paid off her debts. So I 
agree with our investigator that its appropriate for AmEx to pay compensation in this 
case. I think AmEx should pay Mrs S £150 in compensation. 
I think that would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
AmEx didnt reply. Mrs S replied to suggest a different solution. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed my mind.
Mrs S said that £150 seemed a minimal amount of compensation. She said that she had to 
make several calls to AmEx, it hadnt called her once. And she had been chased by a 
collections team for the last ten months. She also said that shed applied for a soft search 
mortgage decision in March 2020 and had been turned down due to a recent default on her 
credit file. She said even if this default was now removed, shed signed a new twelve month 
rental contract, and was unable to move. She said that £400 to £500 seemed more 
reasonable, especially as Id decided the majority of the blame lay with AmEx. 
Mrs S said that she was happy to pay back the money, but she said that she was currently 
furloughed from work, and would like to ask for the repayments to be spread over a longer 
period, perhaps 12 or 18 months. And shed also like her other debt with AmEx spread over 
this period. She said shed contact AmEx straight away if her circumstances changed.
Mrs S also said that a debt collector was contacting her, and was offering a much lower 
settlement than AmEx. She asked what, apart from her credit history, would be the incentive 
for paying back the whole amount, when the debt collector was asking for much less? And 
she asked if AmEx would consider removing the adverse history from her file, and she could 
pay the debt collector.I do think that this problem was mainly caused by AmEx. But I dont think it was solely 
caused by AmEx, and in particular, I dont think its only AmExs fault that Mrs Ss entire 
debt, including the mistaken credit and an unrelated amount of money which was for 
purchases on her card, remains outstanding now. 
The redress Ive suggested allows Mrs S to pay back that mistaken refund on comparatively 
generous terms, and over a considerable period of time. It also ensures that this wont show 
on her credit report. I dont think AmEx has to pay additional compensation on top of this.
Im sorry to hear that Mrs Ss circumstances have changed, and that shes not been 
receiving her full wage. I note that the current circumstances also mean I cant assume any 
mortgage application she made in March would ultimately have been able to proceed. 
I hope that this issue will soon be resolved for her. But in the meantime, I dont think it would 
be fair to Amex to amend the terms of this redress in the way she suggests. And, because I 
dont think it would be fair to AmEx to amend this redress, I wont suggest to it that it amends 
her credit file but leaves this debt in the hands of debt collectors. 
I cant advise Mrs S on whether she should accept my decision, or reach an agreement with 
debt collectors instead. I can only confirm that I still think the award I proposed offers a fair 
and reasonable outcome to this case. 
Ill now make the award I originally proposed. 
My final decision
My final decision is that American express services Europe limited (AESEL) must, in line 
with the details set out in my provisional decision above: 
Refund all interest and late fees applied to Mrs Ss debt since 13 July 2019.
Split the remaining debt into two separate amounts.
Allow Mrs S six months to pay off £1,974 of the debt, without applying any charges or
interest, or recording any adverse credit file entries.
Update Mrs Ss credit file to delete all adverse entries caused by this incorrect
refund, and the subsequent dispute.
Allow Mrs S one month to pay the remaining debt in the same way as it would any
other outstanding balance.
Pay Mrs S £150 in compensation.
If either party has anything further to add, they should do so by the date set out at the top of 
this provisional decision. I'll then reconsider the complaint before reaching my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman