DRN-3751404
The complaint
Miss W has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc has cancelled a payment protection 
insurance policy that covered her for unemployment. She has also complained that it will not 
provide a refund of premiums for a period when she has been living abroad.
What happened
Miss W was in contact with HSBC in 2000 with regard to whether the policy still provided 
cover if she was living abroad. She was told that the policy may not be suitable as a 
requirement of the policy was that someone was in receipt of UK jobseekers allowance 
during the period of any claim. HSBC said at that time that it would consider a refund of 
premiums from the date that Miss W had moved abroad. However, Miss W decided against 
asking for a refund at that time. Instead she decided to keep the policy as it might be useful 
upon her return to the UK.
HSBC then wrote to her on 21 April 2022 informing her that the insurer had taken a decision 
to no longer provide that particular product and that the policy would therefore be cancelled 
on 23 August 2022.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint because the insurer had made a business 
decision to withdraw this policy and HSBC had provided Miss W with sufficient notice of the 
cancellation, in line with the policy terms. He also concluded that HSBC was not required to 
refund the premiums.
Miss W disagrees with the investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC was the seller of the policy and was also the administrator, but it is not the insurer. 
So, in this decision Im only looking at whether or not HSBC acted fairy in its administration 
of the policy. 
It was the insurers decision to withdraw this particular insurance product. The policy terms 
allow for the policy to be cancelled at any time and sets out the minimum notice that must be 
given. Im satisfied that HSBC provided more than the required notice period and so was in 
compliance with the terms and conditions of the policy. The notice letter signposted Miss W 
to where she could find advice on alternative cover if she still wanted unemployment 
insurance.
Miss W has said that, even if HSBC wont refund the premiums for the entire period she has 
lived abroad, it should at least honour the offer it made in 2020 to refund premiums up to that 
point. 
HSBCs offer in 2020 was that Miss W could cancel the policy and have a refund of 
premiums. This was because Miss W hadnt been aware that she wasnt covered for 
unemployment whilst living abroad. Both HSBCs offer and Miss Ws decision to decline it, 
were based on the prevailing circumstances at that time. It was not intended to be an open-
ended offer and once Miss W declined it, that was the matter closed. This is particularly so 
because Miss W then knew that she wasnt covered but had decided to keep the policy 
anyway.
I appreciate that Miss W decided to keep the cover for potential future use. But HSBC did 
not know that the insurer would later take a commercial decision to cancel that particular 
product. It does not follow that the insurers decision to withdraw cover in August 2022 
conveys any obligation on HSBC to honour its earlier offer.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 December 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman