DRN-3931238
The complaint
Mr J says Sainsburys Bank Plc treated him unfairly as it didnt provide all the information it 
held about him when he made a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR). 
What happened
Following a separate complaint raised with Sainsburys Bank, Mr J made a DSAR request to 
it on 2 March 2021. 
Sainsburys Bank responded to this request and issued its response on 12 April 2021. Mr J 
was unable to access this information, and it was sent on 3 May 2021. Mr J experienced 
further issues accessing the information electronically, so a paper copy was eventually sent 
to Mr J on 22 June 2021. 
Mr J was unhappy with the information he received and raised a complaint with Sainsburys 
Bank. In summary, Mr J says the information provided is incomplete and not in line with the 
Information Commissioners Offices (ICO) guidance. Mr J also explained he was unhappy 
with how he has been spoken to during a call with a Sainsburys Bank representative in 
November 2019.
Sainsburys reviewed Mr Js concerns and issued its final response letter on 15 September 
2021. In its response Sainsburys said it had provided all the necessary information within 
the DSAR, and there was some sensitive information that it was not required to disclose. It 
also acknowledged Mr J had received poor service during the phone call he had complained 
about. It apologised for this and offered £25 in recognition of the distress this caused. 
Mr J referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked at everything and didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld. They concluded Sainsburys Bank had acted 
reasonably in dealing with Mr Js DSAR request. And they said that if Mr J was unhappy with 
the content of the DSAR, he could contact the ICO. They also thought the £25 offer for the 
poor service Mr J had received was fair. Mr J didnt agree, so the complaint has been 
passed to me  an ombudsman - to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres a great deal of correspondence on this complaint and many complaint points have 
been raised. I will, however, focus on issues which are relevant for me to reach a fair and 
reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this complaint. I must also highlight I will not be 
considering the complaint points which were deemed to be outside of our jurisdiction in a 
decision issued to Mr J on 9 November 2022. But Id like to assure Mr J that Ive considered 
all hes told us and provided us in relation to this complaint, as I have with Sainsbury Banks 
submissions too.
Firstly I think it would be helpful to clarify my role in this dispute. My role is to consider 
whether Sainsburys Bank acted fairly and reasonably in responding to Mr Js DSAR 
request. It isnt the role of our service to comment on the content of a DSAR. So, if Mr J is 
unhappy with the information provided, this is a matter for the ICO, and I can see Mr J has 
made a referral to this body.  So, I wont be commenting on the actual content of the DSAR 
and whether Sainsburys Bank has discharged its legal duties.
Ive considered how Sainsburys Bank treated Mr J when he made his DSAR request. I can 
see Mr J made a request and the necessary information was gathered and sent to him via 
an online portal. Mr J experienced issues accessing the information in this way, and 
eventually paper copies were sent to Mr J. I appreciate being unable to access the 
information online wouldve been frustrating for Mr J, and this resulted in delays. Sainsburys 
Bank appears to have responded to Mr Js queries fairly  it provided Mr J with a few 
attempts to access the information online. When it became clear this wasnt going to be 
possible, paper copies were sent. 
I can also see it was clear and consistent with Mr J about the fact it would be holding some 
information back, as it was regarded as sensitive. Sainsburys Banks internal notes also 
show that the information issued to Mr J was checked internally, and by its Data Protection 
Officer. Overall, I think Sainsburys Bank dealt with Mr Js request in a reasonable manner 
and kept him informed of the process. 
Mr J has also complained about the service he received during a phone call with Sainsburys 
Bank. Sainsburys Bank has accepted the service provided in the call was unacceptable and 
issued an apology to Mr J. It also sent Mr J £25 in recognition of the distress caused by the 
call. I think Sainsburys Bank has taken fair steps here to address the issue, and I wouldnt 
expect it to take any further action.
I know Mr J will be disappointed with the outcome Ive reached on his complaint. But this 
final decision ends what our service can do for him. However, he can reject my decision and 
pursue the matter elsewhere if he wishes to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman