DRN-3956267
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy with the way her claim was handled by Great Lakes Insurance SE (GL).
What happened
Miss C was on holiday when she became unwell. Miss C said shed contracted food 
poisoning whilst staying with a holiday host. She spoke with GLs emergency assistance line 
and requested immediate admission to a local hospital for treatment. Miss C said GL didnt 
handle things properly and this was to her detriment. Miss C said GLs negligence resulted in 
her unnecessary suffering and that she felt abandoned at a time she was most vulnerable. 
Miss C also said shes been left with life changing injuries as she developed an infection in 
her spine, which required significant treatment upon her return to the UK.
GL said it did everything it could to support Miss C but acknowledged there were other 
factors which caused problems and that this was outside of its control. In particular, the 
holiday host provided incorrect hospital details which meant Miss C was taken to the wrong 
hospital which wasnt equipped to provide an MRI scan. There were further complications 
when the MRI was completed because the hospital didnt refer Miss C for further 
investigations or treatment. It said the medical evidence said Miss C was suffering with 
gastroenteritis and was discharged from hospital 48 hours later. 
GL acknowledged Miss C began experiencing severe pain in her back and abdomen and 
advised her to call the emergency services and that Miss C refused to do that. GL also 
highlighted Miss C hadnt told it everything about her medical history and so itd only pay 
80% of her claim.  
Our investigator upheld Miss Cs complaint in part and recommended £600 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. She said GL should have been more proactive in 
its communication with Miss C, in particular, she was left waiting for five hours before it 
made arrangements for her to go to the hospital. She also explained it took too long for GL 
to arrange an MRI appointment  which was three days. She agreed that GL was only 
responsible for 80% of the claim because Miss C failed to tell it everything about her medical 
history. 
Neither Miss C, nor GL accepted her opinion. Miss C said the compensation isnt enough 
and that shes been left with irreparable injuries. She explained upon her return to the UK, 
she required urgent medical treatment in the form of intravenous antibiotics over a four-
month period. GL disagreed with our findings and said Miss C was treated for gastroenteritis 
and discharged after 48 hours. It explained there was effectively no further action for it to 
take and that the issues Miss C suffered afterwards were related to pre-existing medical 
conditions such as discitis, and noted she was given pain medication to manage her 
symptoms. 
It also highlighted the MRI scan made no further recommendation for a referral for further 
treatment, as is customary for that country, and that Miss C was fit to fly home as scheduled. 
GL said its seen no medical evidence to support Miss Cs claims that shes been left with 
life-changing injuries, or that she even received medical treatment when she returned to the 
UK. And so, its for me to make a final decision on whether the recommended compensation 
is fair.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partially uphold it for the same reasons already explained by 
our investigator.
Im not going to list every event here because the history and the chronology are already 
known by both parties and well documented in the investigators view. Instead, Ill 
summarise the key events and arguments I consider material to the final decision.
Im satisfied Miss C was unwell and experiencing symptoms of her illnesses and being in 
another country, unable to communicate effectively due to the language barrier and having 
to rely on GL to help support her through that time must have been difficult. I say that 
because at times, GL didnt handle things how Id have expected. Miss C was left waiting for 
it to arrange transport to hospital for in excess of five hours. There were insufficient notes 
made about her claim and when Miss C called the assistance line, she often had to repeat 
the background to her complaint, which must have been frustrating. 
But Im not satisfied GLs actions caused Miss C extensive, or life-changing injuries like 
shes suggested because theres simply no medical evidence to support that. Miss C said 
because of GLs reluctance to take her claim seriously whilst she was away, she suffered an 
infection that spread to her spine, causing significant injuries. Miss C explained the infection 
was present whilst she was on holiday and that it wasnt treated properly which caused her 
further, irreparable damage. She explained the correct course of treatment was to receive 
intravenous antibiotics over a period of around six weeks. 
The quality of care isnt an area I can comment on as its not something I can reasonably 
hold GL responsible for. I say that because countries have different medical guidelines for 
treating patients and varying accepted levels of care. However, I note Miss C was given a 
course of anti-biotics along with other medication to reduce pain and inflammation, which 
doesnt sound unreasonable in the circumstances. I take on board Miss Cs assertion this 
wasnt the correct treatment, but without any persuasive medical testimony that says thats 
wrong, I cannot fairly decide whether GL should have challenged the treating doctor about 
that.  
Ive carefully considered Miss Cs arguments about the conditions and symptoms shes 
experienced since she returned to the UK, and whilst I sympathise, Ive not seen any 
persuasive medical evidence to support that she was left with life-altering injuries. She was 
initially suffering with gastroenteritis, but after being sent home and then returning to another 
hospital days later, it was discovered she also had an infection in her spine. But I dont think 
it reasonable to suggest this was because of any perceived negligence on GLs part 
because theres no persuasive medical evidence that says that.   
The scan also showed Miss C suffered with discitis, however, the specialist said this was 
most likely pre-existing. It said the issue affected her L5 vertebrae which she was previously 
aware of. Ive considered Miss Cs medical records and Im satisfied that was the case. 
There are notes to show shed discussed this with her doctor and that she was largely 
asymptomatic, and this only presented with sudden movements. 
I note Miss Cs comments she was suffering with a potential blood clot. Its unclear why she thought this, however, I refer back to the MRI and other contemporaneous medical notes 
and Im unable to find any medical evidence to support that. 
Miss C was unhappy that GL needed to validate her claim before accepting liability. She was 
unhappy with the process it needed to complete to do this. GL needed to see Miss Cs 
medical history  which is normal under the circumstances  to ensure it knew about any 
pre-existing medical conditions. I dont think GL did anything wrong by requesting that 
information. Its normal practice for an insurer to validate a claim prior to accepting liability 
and this forms part of that process. 
GL discovered Miss C hadnt disclosed her full medical history and this led to it having to 
reassess whether it would have offered insurance cover had it known the full picture. In 
doing this, GL found a policy would still have been offered, however, it would have charged 
20% more for the policy. That meant Miss C had effectively underpaid for her policy and so 
GL was entitled to settle the claim on a proportionate basis. Im satisfied, based on the 
evidence Ive seen, GL has settled the overall costs in line with that.
I think Miss Cs point about this being an emergency is an interesting one. I say that because 
Miss C didnt call the emergency services at any point throughout the ordeal. Its important to 
note this because had that been the case, then the level of treatment shed have received 
would most likely have been very different. I think Miss C had expectations about how the 
travel medical policy would work and perhaps her perception was that shed be treated in the 
same way as an emergency admission. But I dont consider that a reasonable expectation. 
Miss C was advised by GL to call the emergency services, given her symptoms, however 
she declined. She explained she had concerns about contracting COVID-19 and so would 
rather travel in a private taxi  which I understand  but I dont think it reasonable to expect 
GL to offer the same level of service as an emergency responder, given Miss C didnt 
consider her position severe enough to call the emergency services. Miss C described her 
condition as being so severe she thought her life was ending  but theres no medical 
evidence she suffered a life-threatening condition. 
I think this is further supported by her reluctance to call the emergency services  which if I 
were to take Miss Cs testimony at face value  would have been the reasonable thing to do 
in the circumstances. And so, I dont think it fair or reasonable to expect GL to have provided 
a level of service similar to that of the emergency services. 
GL didnt arrange transport in good time. I understand there were perhaps factors outside of 
its control, like the availability of the taxi, but I still think it should have kept Miss C updated 
about that, or perhaps shown that it had contacted a variety of taxi firms in order to get her to 
the hospital. Ive not seen evidence of it doing this and I think that had an impact on Miss C 
to such a degree that compensation should be paid because of it. She was left waiting for 
five hours, in pain, whilst this was being arranged. In the end, Miss C made her own 
arrangements because GL hadnt kept her updated about the arrangements itd made. 
Similarly, when GL managed to arrange for an MRI scan, it was in a hospital three hours 
away and it only gave her 40 minutes to get to the appointment and so I dont think that 
showed a good level of service or understanding of her position. 
Its for these reasons Im satisfied GLs actions caused Miss C distress and inconvenience 
and pain and suffering. And so, I think the compensation awarded by our investigator and 
the reasons she gave for this are fair. My final decision
My final decision is that Great Lakes Insurance SE must pay £600 compensation to Miss C 
for the distress and inconvenience and pain and suffering caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman