DRN-2778864
The complaint
  Ms P complains about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) under her home insurance policy. 
She is unhappy at the way Aviva dealt with her claim for items stolen during a burglary at her 
home, and the settlement of her claim.
While Ms Ps claim for items stolen included a range of items, the main element of her 
complaint relates to specific items of Asian jewellery that were given to her by family 
members. The other items included in her claim were dealt with by Aviva, so this decision 
focuses on the items of Asian jewellery.
Aviva uses agents to administer and provide services under the policy, as well as to deal 
with claims and complaints. Any reference to Aviva in this decision includes those agents. 
What happened
  Ms P suffered a burglary at her home in September 2019 in which personal items were 
stolen. Ms P lodged a claim with Aviva for the stolen items, some of which were pieces of 
Asian jewellery Ms P had received from family members and for which she consequently did 
not have receipts. On the advice of her insurance broker, Ms P prepared a detailed listing of 
the items that had been stolen, including photographs and receipts where available. For 
items where she did not have that form of evidence, she obtained replacement values from 
stores from which they were purchased, and for items that were gifts to her, values from 
online and other sources.
 
Ms P also obtained a professional valuation from a firm specialising in Asian jewellery, 
based on descriptions and photographs of the specific items received from family members. 
This valuation was £13,890 and Ms P included it with her claim submitted to Aviva in 
November 2019.
 
Given the nature and value of the items, Aviva appointed their own valuation specialists to 
provide a valuation of the items. Given the variety of items in Ms Ps claim, she was 
contacted by a number of different firms. Aviva also appointed their own specialist Asian 
jewellery valuer. They contacted Ms P and asked her to describe the stolen items, and she 
referred them to the information and documentation that she had previously supplied to 
Aviva. Avivas specialist valuer contacted Ms P again in January 2020 as they had received 
descriptions of the items but not the original valuation Ms P supplied to Aviva nor the 
photographs of the items.
 
In the meantime Avivas specialist valuer had provided Aviva with a valuation, which Aviva 
told Ms P would be subject to review when the specialist valuer had seen Ms Ps original 
valuation and photographs. This valuation contained two figures. One figure (£11,996) was 
based on the specialist valuers estimate of the Recommended Retail Price (RRP) of 
equivalent items to those stolen. A second figure (£10,197) was a cash settlement figure, 
which was based on Avivas ability to replace the items with equivalents at a lower cost than 
the RRP value.
Ms P complained to Aviva in January 2020, unhappy at the way her claim was being 
handled. In their response letter of January 2020 Aviva rejected Ms Ps complaint. Aviva 
noted their specialist valuers cash settlement offer of £10,197 in respect of the jewellery 
(compared to the valuation of £13,890 from Ms Ps specialist valuer) and stated that they 
(Aviva) would not be increasing the offer. Aviva also confirmed to Ms Ps broker that their 
specialist valuer had based their valuation on the photographs and other information 
provided by Ms P.
Ms P stated that she did not receive any further valuation until Aviva paid a settlement figure 
of £10,194 directly into her bank account in June 2020. Ms P was unhappy at the lack of 
communication from Aviva during this period. In addition, based on the price of gold at June 
2020, she estimated that the value of her stolen jewellery was then £20,140 (meaning that in 
her view she had incurred a financial loss of £9,946).
Ms P was unhappy at the outcome of her complaint and the cash settlement paid by Aviva 
and complained to this service in July 2020. The main points of her complaint were that she 
received only 50% of the value of the items of Asian jewellery that she had claimed for, and 
that delays in settling her claim had led to a significant financial loss because of the increase 
in the price of gold. She asked to be compensated for the value of her lost jewellery based 
on the price of gold in June 2020 (when Aviva settled her claim) rather than its value based 
on the price at the time she made her claim (November 2019).
Our investigator upheld the complaint in January 2021. He concluded that Aviva had not 
treated Ms P fairly. The investigator was also not satisfied that Aviva were able to replace 
the Asian jewellery items with equivalents, and therefore concluded that Aviva had acted 
unfairly in paying Ms P the lower cash settlement figure and should have paid Ms P the 
higher RRP figure. Because of the length of time since the original valuations in December 
2019 and the fact that the price of gold  a key factor in the valuation of the jewellery  
changed over time, the investigator said that Aviva should compensate Ms P by revaluing 
the items at current market value, less the £10,194 that she had been paid.
Ms P and Aviva were unhappy at the investigators view. Ms P wanted any settlement to be 
based on the valuation by her specialist jeweller. On their part, Aviva were not willing to 
make a settlement based on an RRP valuation as they maintained that they were able to 
access a panel of specialist jewellers to source equivalent items.
Avivas specialist valuer subsequently provided an updated valuation (February 2021) 
reflecting the price of gold at that point. The RRP valuation was £14,654 and the cash 
settlement valuation was £12,456. Ms P said that she was willing to accept payment of the 
RRP figure but not the cash settlement figure. Aviva was unwilling to pay the RRP figure as 
a cash settlement and requested an Ombudsman review the complaint.
 
In my findings I provisionally concluded that Aviva should pay Ms P a cash settlement based 
on an updated RRP valuation of her items from Avivas specialist valuer (less the £10,194 
that it had already paid to Ms P). And that the updated valuation should be obtained at the 
date that Ms P agreed to my final decision.
As my findings differed from those of the investigator, I issued a provisional decision to give 
both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below.
My role here is to decide whether Aviva has acted fairly towards Ms P.
 
As noted above, the key element of Ms Ps complaint is that part of her claim relating to her 
stolen Asian jewellery. But Ive also considered the other elements of her complaint, 
including the number of valuation specialists used by Aviva in assessing her overall claim. Given the different types of item within her claim, I think it was reasonable for Aviva to use a 
number of specialists with expertise in different areas. Ive also considered the length of time 
taken to consider Ms Ps claim  particularly the Asian jewellery element  and Ms Ps 
complaint that she had no communication from Aviva between January 2020 until they paid 
a cash settlement for the Asian jewellery items in June 2020. But Ive also noted that those 
elements of Ms Ps claim other than the Asian jewellery were settled relatively early in the 
process (January 2020). Looking at the more recent exchanges between Ms P, Aviva and 
our investigator its clear that the Asian jewellery issue is the key area of disagreement.
Ms P maintains that her claim should be settled on the basis of the valuation that she 
obtained from her specialist jewellery valuer, as she spent time with the jeweller describing 
the items and discussing them in detail. I appreciate the point, but Ive also noted that both 
her specialist jewellery valuer and Avivas specialist jewellery valuer had the same 
information on the specific items that were lost, their weight and photographs. Using different 
valuers can lead to differences between valuations, as is the case here. The evidence 
doesnt enable me to conclude about what factors may have led to the difference in 
valuations, and therefore whether either valuation is more persuasive than the other.
 
However, Ive noted that as part of the consideration of Ms Ps complaint by our investigator, 
a revised valuation was provided by Avivas specialist jewellery valuer, based on current 
gold and market prices as at February 2021. Ive also noted that Ms P was willing to accept 
the higher (RRP) of the two figures in the valuation (but not the lower cash settlement 
figure). Ive therefore gone on to consider the point about whether a settlement should be 
based on RRP valuation or the (lower) cash settlement valuation.
Aviva maintain that they have access to a panel of specialist jewellers that would provide the 
basis for offering Ms P replacements equivalent to the items that were lost. Ive also noted 
Avivas comment that their specialist jewellery valuer contacted Ms Ps specialist jewellery 
valuer and that the latter said that they were, in the current circumstances, unable to source 
equivalent replacement items.
 
Ive also considered the terms and conditions of Ms Ps insurance policy. Under the section 
headed Settling personal belongings claims it states:
We can choose to settle your claim by:
replacing;
reinstating;
repairing; 
payment.
Replacement will be on a like for like basis or based on the nearest equivalent 
available in the current market. If we are able to replace property, but we agree to 
make a cash settlement, we will only pay you what it would cost us to replace the 
item as if it were new.
As Ms Ps items were stolen (and not recovered) then only the replacing or payment options 
are possible. Avivas view is that they have access to a panel of specialist Asian jewellers 
that would enable Ms Ps items to be replaced (on a like for like basis or nearest equivalent 
available). This would be the equivalent of the RRP valuation from their specialist jewellery 
valuer. The cash settlement valuation figure from their specialist jewellery valuer is the 
payment option and is a lower figure than RRP because Aviva are able to replace the items 
at a lower cost (what it would cost us to replace the item as if it were new).
 The key issue is therefore whether Aviva would be able to replace the lost items (as they 
maintain that they can). Aviva have said that they have provided details (verbal descriptions 
and photographs available) of the lost items to various jewellers on their panel, who have in 
turn stated that they would be able to aid with replacements. But that they are unable to 
evidence this in the current climate and would require finer scale information from Ms P to 
enable them to obtain replacement items from suppliers once an order had been confirmed 
by Ms P. While they maintain that they can, Ive not seen the evidence to conclusively 
support that position. Ive also noted that Aviva paid a cash settlement to Ms P in June 2020, 
which suggests to me that either they did not choose to settle the claim by replacement (as 
the policy sets out) or they did not consider the option of replacement at that time (or that it 
was appropriate or possible). Or that Ms P wanted a cash settlement figure.
 
Ive also noted that in making the cash settlement payment of £10,194 in June 2020 that 
figure was based on a valuation from their specialist jewellery valuer provided in December 
2019  not the point at which they made the payment. So it wasnt based on current market 
value as at June 2020  which is a key part of Ms Ps complaint that she suffered a 
significant financial loss. While Ive not seen a valuation of the items as at June 2020 from 
Avivas specialist jewellery valuer, there is Ms Ps own figure (£20,184) included in her 
complaint. Looking at publicly available information on the price of gold in June 2020, it was 
higher than at the date of Avivas specialist valuers initial valuation (which is stated to be 
December 2019), but not to the extent given by Ms P. So, while this would be a smaller loss 
than that which Ms P claims, it would still have been substantial. Ive therefore concluded 
that in making the payment in June 2020 based on a valuation produced in December 2019, 
Aviva treated Ms P unfairly.
In these circumstances, also bearing in mind: the specialist nature of the items that were 
lost; that Aviva have not been able to provide clear evidence of their ability to replace the 
items on a like for like basis; and that they made a cash settlement payment in June 2020 
(which Ms P has had since that date),  Ive concluded that a fair outcome would be for Ms P 
to receive a cash settlement based on the RRP valuation. Given that valuation figures for 
these type of items are significantly affected by the current market value of gold, then an 
updated valuation should be provided for the purpose.
One of Ms Ps elements of complaint was that the valuation from Avivas specialist valuer 
was significantly lower than that provided from her own specialist valuer. As Ive said above 
its not possible for me to determine which of the two is more persuasive. But as Ms P 
indicated that she would accept the [RRP] valuation from Avivas specialist valuer, I think 
that its reasonable that any new valuation be provided from Avivas specialist valuer, and 
that its fair in the circumstances.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I uphold Ms Ps complaint. I 
am minded to require Aviva Insurance Limited:
to pay Ms P a cash settlement based on an updated RRP valuation of her items of 
Asian jewellery from Avivas Asian jewellery specialist (less the £10,194 that it has 
already paid to Ms P).
To obtain the valuation at the date that Ms P agrees to my final decision
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Ms P responded to say that she accepted my provisional decision and had no 
further comments.Aviva responded with an updated valuation from their specialist valuer. They had no 
comments on the provisional decision itself.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 As both Aviva and Ms P had no comments on the provisional decision itself, I havent 
changed my view and my final decision and reasoning remains the same as in my 
provisional decision. 
 
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Ms Ps complaint. I require 
Aviva Insurance Limited:
to pay Ms P a cash settlement based on an updated RRP valuation of her items of 
Asian jewellery from Avivas Asian jewellery specialist (less the £10,194 that it has 
already paid to Ms P).
To obtain the valuation at the date that Ms P agrees to my final decision, if she does 
so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman