DRN-3042686
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as F, complains that BCR Group Limited, sold warranties that 
were subsequently removed from the list of approved suppliers of a major mortgage 
provider.
Mr E, who is a director of F, brings the complaint on Fs behalf.
What happened
F is a property developing company that was converting a building into a block of 54 
residential units. It bought ten-year latent defect warranties to sell with the flats through a 
company I will refer to as C. C were acting as an appointed representative of BCR. 
At the beginning of 2018 Mr E became aware that C had been removed from a list of 
approved warranty suppliers for mortgage applications with one of the bigger banks. This 
concerned Mr E as he said it would make the flats more difficult to sell, as it would exclude 
any potential buyers who were getting a mortgage through that bank. 
Mr E raised his concerns with C and it initially said it would make an alternative arrangement 
for the warranties with a different provider. It said these warranties would cost around 
£51,000 whereas F had paid around £30,000 for the original ones. But it said it would do this 
at no extra cost to F. 
However Mr E wasnt happy with the offers that were being presented. And it transpired he 
would have to pay additional costs, above the cost of the original warranties, for the 
replacements. So in order to prevent further delays to the development, Mr E decided to buy 
F alternative warranties directly at a cost of around £41,000.
He subsequently made a complaint to BCR. He said F wouldnt have bought the warranties if 
he had known they would be removed from the banks approved list. And as a result of Cs 
poor communication around a replacement warranty, F had had to pay an additional £41,000 
for replacements. He said C should refund the cost of the original warranties and the 
difference he had paid for the new ones. He also thought it should refund all associated 
costs F had had to pay to change marketing and those associated with the delay caused to 
the development due to the issue. 
BCR didnt provide a formal response to the complaint. So Mr E brought Fs complaint to this 
service. After we approached BCR, it has said that it doesnt agree it should do anything 
more. It said when C sold the warranties it was on the banks list of approved suppliers and it 
couldnt have known that it would be removed. And it said being on the banks approved list 
wasnt a condition of the sale. It also said Mr E made his own decision to buy alternative 
warranties for F, so it wouldnt refund the difference. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He didnt think C had mis-sold 
the warranties and thought BCR wouldnt have known that C would be removed from the 
banks approved list, so didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Mr E didnt agree and asked for Fs complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to note that as C was acting as an appointed representative of BCR, BCR is 
responsible for Cs actions. So if I find C got something wrong, it is BCR who would be 
responsible for putting things right, which is why the complaint is against BCR.
I can understand why Mr E has concerns about the original warranties. The fact C was 
removed from the banks approved list would exclude any potential buyers who were 
seeking a mortgage with that bank. And this may mean its harder for F to sell the flats. I also 
understand why he therefore sought additional cover, so the sale of the properties wouldnt 
be held up further. However, while I can see Mr E, and therefore F, have been caused 
inconvenience and worry by the events, I dont think this is the fault of C. Ill explain why. 
When C sold F the warranties, it was on the approved list. And it wasnt until nearly a year 
later, that it was removed. Ive seen nothing that makes me think C would have been aware 
that it was going to be removed from the banks list at the point the warranties were sold. So 
it isnt something it would have been able to make Mr E aware of at the time of the sale. 
When any policy is sold, there is no guarantee that things wont change in the future. And 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that C made any guarantees relating to the warranties 
remaining on approved lists of the biggest banks. So I think C acted reasonably when selling 
the policies to F. 
I understand Mr Es frustrations around finding replacement warranties. C initially said it was 
trying to arrange alternative cover and it said to Mr E it was seeking to ensure that there are 
no additional costs to you. And this subsequently turned out not to be possible. However I 
dont think C did anything wrong here. It could see the circumstances may cause F some 
difficulties, so it tried to help by speaking to providers to make alternative arrangements. But 
this wasnt something it had to do. F approached C to buy warranties that covered latent 
defects for ten years. And this was the product F received. So while the extra costs would 
have been frustrating for Mr E, I dont think C can reasonably held responsible for these.
Mr E then took the decision to purchase additional warranties, rather than pursuing this route 
with C. While I can understand why he chose to do this, this was his decision. So it wouldnt 
be fair to hold C responsible for this or ask BCR to reimburse the additional cost. 
Therefore while I dont doubt this is a difficult situation for Mr E, and F, I dont think C has 
done anything wrong. So it wouldnt be fair to ask it to reimburse the policy premiums or pay 
Fs costs. 
Mr E has said that C has offered a £12,000 refund of the original policy premiums. As Ive 
said, as I dont think it got anything wrong, I wouldnt ask it to refund what F has paid for the 
policy. But I wont stand in its way of refunding part of it. Our investigator said Mr E may want 
to approach the underwriter of the policy directly to seek a further refund. So this may be a 
route Mr E chooses to explore.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman