DRN-3854103
The complaint
Miss M complains Startline Motor Finance Limited registered a marker against her at CIFAS, 
the national fraud database.
What happened
In 2019 Miss M applied for finance through a broker, who approached a number of lenders 
including Startline. One of those lenders agreed to lend to Miss M so she took out finance 
with them. Startline didnt offer Miss M finance and says that when she gave it her address 
history, she left off an address which had negative information linked to it. It registered a 
marker against her at CIFAS for application fraud, on the basis of an undisclosed address.
In 2022 Miss M applied for finance again and her application was turned down. Miss M says 
she couldnt understand why and having looked into things she says she discovered the 
marker that Startline had recorded against her. Miss M complained to Startline and said, 
amongst other things, that she hadnt lived at the address in question since she was a child 
and had only been asked to disclose addresses shed lived at in the previous three years. 
Startline looked into Miss Ms complaint but didnt uphold it. Startline said that it had 
evidence that shed been linked to that address after 2016 and it was an address with 
adverse information against it. The adverse information in question is a CCJ although 
Startline hasnt said in whose name that CCJ is. Miss M was unhappy with Startlines 
response and so complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ms complaint and upheld it. They said that 
Startline hadnt investigated the matter or provided evidence a fraud or crime had been 
committed. They said that they hadnt even tried to speak to Miss M to see if the omission 
was intended or a simple mistake. They recommended £200 in compensation and that the 
marker be removed without delay.
Startline didnt agree with our investigators recommendations saying that the information 
Miss M had omitted would have had a material impact on her applications assessment. 
Startline also said that CIFAS had agreed that it had discharged the burden of proof needed 
in order to register a marker. So I was asked to consider this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having seen Miss Ms credit file, Im satisfied that a business that she has a bank account 
with linked her to the address that Startline says she didnt disclose, and that she was still 
linked to that address in 2016. Ill refer to the business she has a bank account with as B in 
the rest of this decision. So, I can understand why Startline says she didnt disclose an 
address shed lived at in the three years prior to her application.
Miss M has told us that the address in question is a family address and that she lived there 
when she was at school having moved from her Mum to her Dad. I can see that Miss M has 
updated her address several times since 2009 and that she gave B her Mums address in 
2017 and has given B two more addresses since then. One of those is an address shes 
recently moved into  in June 2021  and where she currently lives. Im satisfied that the 
other address belongs to a friend who she lived with temporarily. In short, Im satisfied that 
Miss M has moved around several times over the years and, having spoken to her further, 
that she didnt always update her address straightaway.
I need to consider whether this report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Startline 
needed to have more than just a suspicion or concern. It needs to be able to show that it had 
reasonable grounds to believe that fraud or a financial crime had been committed or 
attempted, backed up by evidence which would support it being reported to the authorities.
It is not in dispute that Miss M failed to mention an address on her address history. That may 
have been enough for Startline to have had a suspicion or concern. But the question is 
whether Startline had sufficient grounds to conclude that this was an intentional attempt to 
commit fraud, or not.
Startline does not appear to have made a significant investigation into the matter at the time. 
For example, I cant see that it spoke to Miss M or asked for clarity before adding the marker 
 and it really should have given her the opportunity to explain herself. Further, despite our 
investigators requests, it has not provided basic evidence such as who the adverse 
information relates to  so its not fully clear how significant this missing address even was. 
This is a point of concern. It is difficult for me to see how Startline could be satisfied that 
Miss M intentionally tried to deceive it without really looking into the matter or trying to clarify 
the situation. I certainly dont agree with Startline that it can just assume Miss M had tried 
to commit fraud simply because the missing address had adverse information linked to it.
Miss M says she hasnt lived at the address in question since she was at school and that she 
still has access to it as its a family address. She says shes moved around quite a bit and 
hasnt always updated her addresses straightaway. Miss Ms testimony seems broadly 
plausible. Its reasonable that she could have made a mistake and not disclosed the address 
in question because shed not lived there for some time, not least if she was moving around. 
I am, of course, conscious that it is also a plausible possibility that Miss M intentionally tried 
to deceive Startline. But that alone is not a good enough basis on which to register a CIFAS 
marker. Startline needed to have more than just a suspicion or concern about the possibility 
of fraud. It needed to be able to substantially evidence that this was fraud, and not merely a 
mistake or misunderstanding. But because of its lack of investigation at the time, it does not 
appear to be able to do that. So, I am not persuaded that Startline had sufficient grounds to 
apply this CIFAS marker, nor can I safely conclude that the marker is fair. Therefore, Im 
going to require Startline to remove the marker in dispute.Ive considered the issues Miss M has faced since the marker was added. She explained 
she had difficulties getting finance in 2022  before then she wasnt even aware of the 
marker. 
Putting things right
Having considered everything Miss M has said, I dont think the compensation our 
investigator has recommended is unfair or unreasonable. So, Im going to require Startline to 
pay her £200 in compensation in addition to removing the marker in dispute.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Startline Motor Finance Limited to pay Miss M £200 in 
compensation and remove the marker in dispute in full and final settlement of her complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman