DRN-1653474
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans irresponsibly provided 
her with an unaffordable guarantor loan.
What happened
Mrs H was given a guarantor loan by Buddy Loans in April 2017 for £3,500. Mrs Hs loan 
was to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of around £138. The total amount due to be 
repaid over the five-year loan term, including interest, was just over £8,344. I understand the 
loan was settled early in 2019.
One of our investigators has looked into the complaint. She didnt think Buddy Loans should 
have provided Mrs H with the loan and she asked the lender to put things right. Buddy Loans 
didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment, and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to make a final decision about the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit and guarantor loans on our 
website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. And Ive 
considered this approach when deciding Mrs Hs complaint.
Buddy Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mrs H 
irresponsibly.
I think there are key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Buddy Loans carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mrs H was in a position to sustainably repay the loan? If not, what would reasonable 
and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did Buddy Loans make a fair lending decision?
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs H in some other way?
Buddy Loans was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment (and a similar 
assessment on the guarantor). This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Buddy Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs H. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for Buddy Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mrs H. The 
existence of a guarantee and the potential for Buddy Loans to pursue the guarantor instead 
of Mrs H for the loan payments doesnt alter, lessen, or dilute this obligation.
Buddy Loans had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs 
H would be able repay the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that Buddy 
Loans had to do, but it could take into account a number of different things such as the loan 
amount, the length of the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall 
financial circumstances.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Did Buddy Loans carry out reasonable and proportionate checks?
Buddy Loans says it asked Mrs H for information about her income and expenditure and it 
carried out some credit checks. Buddy Loans says it thinks the loan was affordable for Mrs 
H, based on the information she provided to them at the time and what it found in its checks. 
But requesting information from a borrower doesnt, on its own, mean that a lender will have 
carried out a borrower focussed assessment of the borrowers ability to sustainably repay a 
loan.
Buddy Loans was aware from Mrs Hs credit report that shed taken another significant loan 
of £7,500 payable over five years from another lender only a few months before she made 
an application to Buddy Loans. The credit report also showed that Mrs H had a number of 
historic defaults and a CCJ that had not been satisfied. Mrs H was applying to Buddy Loans 
for an expensive loan, repayable over a long period and the rules and guidance suggest that 
the risk of any credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted 
and the total charge for credit - relative to the customers financial situation.
Buddy Loans might have been prepared to accept this credit risk because the loan had a 
guarantor who was equally liable with Mrs H. This might have given Buddy Loans more 
confidence that the loan repayments would be made. But I dont think that the existence of 
the guarantor, on its own, meant that Mrs H herself would be able to sustainably make the 
repayments - given the amount being lent, the repayment amounts and the extended length 
of the loan term.Buddy Loans says the most recent previous default happened over a year prior to Mrs H 
applying for her loan. But taking things in the round, I think Buddy Loans ought reasonably 
have realised that this was a consumer with history of credit defaults and, given her 
application to Buddy Loans for £3,500 in addition to the £7,500 shed recently borrowed 
elsewhere, this was someone who was having difficulties getting out from under her financial 
problems. Mrs H was going to have to maintain her loan repayments every month for five 
years and there was a real possibility that the guarantor would be required to step in and 
make the payments on her behalf.
In these circumstances I think Buddy Loans ought reasonably to have realised that in order 
for its affordability checks to be fair, reasonable and proportionate, they needed to be more 
detailed and contain a greater degree of independent verification.
Buddy Loans has told us it had verified Mrs Hs income and it doesnt think additional checks 
were necessary. The rules and regulations say that where a lender takes income or 
expenditure into account, it is not generally sufficient for it to rely solely on a statement of 
those matters made by the customer. I appreciate that Buddy Loans had acquired a credit 
report and it thinks it should fairly rely on the information that Mrs H provided at the time. But 
as I explained above, I think Buddy Loans ought reasonably have sought a more detailed 
understanding of Mrs Hs financial position in order to assess whether shed be able to 
sustainably repay her loan over the extended loan term. So as well as asking Mrs H about 
the details of her income and expenditure, I think Buddy Loans should have carried out more 
detailed checks into Mrs Hs financial circumstances  for example by asking to see her 
bank statements.
Taking everything into account, I dont think the checks Buddy Loans did before agreeing to 
lend to Mrs H were fair, reasonable or proportionate.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Mrs H has provided us with copies of her bank statement leading up to her application to 
Buddy Loans, so I can determine what better checks might have shown Buddy Loans at that 
time. And I have considered this information in light of what Ive set out above. Of course, 
different checks might show different things. But I think if Buddy Loans had carried out what I 
consider to be proportionate checks, I think its likely it would have discovered more about 
Mrs Hs financial position. In particular I think it more likely than not Buddy Loans would have 
realised that Mrs H was regularly gambling very considerable amounts of money.
Buddy Loans says it thinks the loan was affordable for Mrs H, based on its analysis of her 
income and expenditure. But as Ive already explained, Buddy Loans was required to 
establish whether Mrs H could sustainably make her loan repayments  not just whether the 
loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make their 
payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, 
that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if it is on notice that they 
are unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
I think if Buddy Loans ought reasonably to have realised that Mrs H was having serious 
difficulties managing her finances and that she was most likely borrowing as a result of her 
gambling  and would also most likely need to borrow elsewhere to repay her loan from 
Buddy Loans. I think Buddy Loans ought reasonably have realised that it was unlikely that 
Mrs H would be able to sustainably repay her loan. So it should reasonably have concluded that it was not appropriate to lend to her.
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs H in some other way?
Mrs Hs representative has told Buddy Loans that Mrs H was suffering from a mental health 
condition when she applied for the loan. I am sorry that Mrs H has been suffering ill health 
and I appreciate that she has gone through a very difficult time. But I havent seen anything 
to make me think that her condition had been disclosed to the lender when she applied for 
her loan. So I dont think Buddy Loans could reasonably have known that Mrs H was a 
vulnerable consumer when it made its lending decision, as it does not appear to have been 
made aware that she was suffering from poor mental health at the time.
Having reviewed the matter carefully, I cant fairly say that Buddy Loans acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mrs H in some other way.
But I dont think Buddy Loans should have provided the loan to her. So I am upholding Mrs 
Hs complaint about the loan
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mrs H to have repaid the principal amount that she 
borrowed, because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid interest and 
charges on a loan that shouldnt have been provided to her. So I think Mrs H has lost out 
and Buddy Loans should put things right for her.
Buddy Loans should:
a) Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mrs H made should then be deducted from the new starting balance. If the 
payments Mrs H has made total more than the amount she was originally lent, then 
any surplus should be treated as overpayments and refunded to her.
b) Add 8% simple interest* calculated on any overpayments made, from the date they 
were paid by Mrs H to the date the complaint is settled.
c) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Hs credit file as a result of this 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Buddy Loans to deduct tax from this interest. Buddy 
Loans should give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
Having considered all the evidence provided to me and reflecting on what is most likely to 
have happened in the circumstances, I uphold Mrs Hs complaint and direct Advancis 
Limited trading as Buddy Loans to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Sharon ParrOmbudsman