DRN-4054596
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund her the money she lost when she 
was the victim of what she feels was a scam.
What happened
In January 2021, Mrs R was looking to have an extension built at her property. She was 
recommended a builder by someone she knew and agreed for the builder to carry out the 
work. Mrs R and the builder agreed a contract setting out the work to be done and how much 
it would cost. And Mrs R then made a number of payments to the builder over the next few 
weeks, both in cash and by bank transfer  totalling £11,870.
Mrs R says the builder and a number of people working for him came to her property and 
started the work as agreed. But there were then a number of delays and the work was not 
completed by the agreed finish date. Mrs R chased the builder to complete the work but the 
builder stopped responding to her, their website stopped working and the work was never 
completed. Mrs R then reported the payments she had made to Barclays as a scam and 
asked it to refund the money she had lost.
Barclays investigated but said it felt this was a civil dispute between Mrs R and the builder, 
and so didnt agree to refund the payments she had made. Mrs R wasnt satisfied with 
Barclays response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They said they thought it was most likely 
the builder was operating as a genuine business at the time and hadnt intended to scam 
Mrs R. So they didnt think Barclays should have to refund the payments Mrs R had made. 
Mrs R disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it would be fair to require Barclays to refund the money Mrs R 
has lost. Ill explain why below.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Barclays is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code). This requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim of 
certain types of scams, in all but a limited number of circumstances. But customers are only 
covered by the code where they have been the victim of a scam.
The CRM code says that it doesnt apply to private civil disputes, such as where a customer 
has paid a legitimate supplier for goods or services but has not received them, they are 
defective in some way or the customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier. So in order 
to determine whether Barclays should refund the money Mrs R lost under the CRM code, I 
need to consider whether she has been the victim of a scam  or, in other words, whether 
the builder set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud her.
Mrs R says she the builder was recommended to her by someone she knew, who told her 
they had some work done by them and were happy with what they had done. And I think its 
unlikely a scammer would have been able to arrange this kind of recommendation. Mrs R 
was also shown a website with reviews of the builder and given a contract on headed paper, 
setting out the work to be done. And I wouldnt necessarily expect a scammer to provide 
these either.
The builder started the work at Mrs Rs property at the agreed time. And Mrs R has sent us a 
photo of the work the builder did on the extension, which appears to show a significant 
amount of work was done. Id usually expect a scammer to do as little work as possible, so it 
appears the builder did more work than Id expect a scammer who never intended to 
complete the work to have done.
Weve also received information from the banks the money was sent to, which shows there 
havent been any other fraud reports in relation to those accounts. And from what Ive seen 
of the activity on one of the accounts the money was sent to, it appears to have been run as 
I would expect a legitimate account to have been.
I appreciate how Mrs R feels about this case, and that her property was left unfinished and 
she has had to pay for another builder to finish the work. But, based on the evidence I have, 
I think its likely the builder here was attempting to operate as a legitimate business at the 
time and that other factors ultimately meant the building work wasnt completed. I dont think 
the builder set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud Mrs R, or that Mrs R has 
been the victim of a scam here.
So I dont think the payments Mrs R made to the builder are covered under the CRM code, 
or that Barclays should be required to refund the money she lost.
I sympathise with the position Mrs R has found herself in, and Im in no way saying she did 
anything wrong or that she doesnt have a legitimate grievance against the builder. But, for 
the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think it would be fair to hold Barclays responsible 
for the money shes lost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Alan MillwardOmbudsman