DRN-2063340
The complaint
Mr E says that OneSavings Bank Plc trading as Kent Reliance took too long dealing with a 
request for a mortgage redemption statement.
What happened
On 4 December 2019 Mr Es solicitor (who Ill call O) wrote to Kent Reliance to request a 
redemption statement as he was remortgaging to a new lender. Kent Reliance received the 
letter on 6 December and the request went into its queue.
On 12 December Kent Reliance wrote back to O to request a letter of authority (LOA) from 
Mr E. O says it received that letter on 18 December.
As nothing had been heard by 16 December Mr E and O both got in touch with Kent 
Reliance. Mr E emailed his LOA to Kent Reliance that day and so the redemption statement 
request was placed in the queue.
On 19 December Kent Reliance sent the redemption statement to O. Mr E says that was 
received by O on 24 December.
As it hadnt received it by 23 December O got back in touch with Kent Reliance, and a copy 
was faxed over to O that same day. The remortgage completed on 31 December.
Unhappy with the timescales Mr E complained to Kent Reliance. Kent Reliance rejected the 
complaint, saying it had followed its normal process.
Our investigator said it was up to Kent Reliance to decide its processes, and that it hadnt 
done anything wrong. Mr E didnt agree, and so the matters been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr E wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way that 
I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered 
it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Much of Mr Es complaint focusses on the spreadsheets held by O. I understand Mr E 
believes Kent Reliance (and other mortgage lenders) are responsible for the accuracy of that 
information. But thats not the case. Those spreadsheets are internal documents created by 
O to assist its administration and conveyancing teams. The accuracy of the data is Os 
responsibility, not Kent Reliances. Kent Reliance had no regulatory responsibility to ensure 
O held correct data, or that O updated its internal spreadsheet. I can understand why O feels 
such spreadsheets are useful, as it gives a guide to the latest information it knows about 
each lenders processes, but if the data is wrong I cant hold any lender liable for that.
Mr E wanted us to contact O to ask for a copy of its spreadsheets, but that wouldnt help us 
deal with this complaint as all that would prove is that O had incorrect information recorded. 
As Kent Reliance had no regulatory responsibility to check O had the correct information for 
it on Os internal spreadsheets that would have no impact on the outcome of this complaint. 
Im surprised to hear from Mr E that O wasnt aware that Kent Reliance was a trading name 
of OneSavings Bank (rather than a separate entity) as thats been the case for many years.
Ive seen Kent Reliances internal guide for redemption statement requests. Thats been 
provided to us in confidence as its commercially sensitive information so Im unable to share 
it with Mr E. But having reviewed it in full Im satisfied Kent Reliance needs a LOA from its 
customer before providing a redemption statement to a solicitor. So Im satisfied Kent 
Reliance did nothing wrong in requesting that LOA.
Mr E has commented on the time Kent Reliance took to respond to Os letter and the fact it 
replied to O, rather than asked him directly for a LOA. Mr E says Kent Reliance told him it 
received the letter on 5 December, but thats not right. Weve got a copy of the letter on file 
and it was date stamped 6 December, so that was the day it was received. In any event 
Kent Reliance replied to O on 12 December which was the fifth working day if the letter had 
been received on 5 December, or the fourth working day if the letter had been received on 
6 December. As Kent Reliances service standard is five working days it met that irrespective 
of which day it received the request from O.
Kent Reliance also did nothing wrong in writing back to O to request the LOA, rather than 
requesting it from Mr E, as it was simply replying to the party that made the request. One 
would assume that O must already have had Mr Es authority on file to allow it to undertake 
the conveyancing, so requesting that authority from O seems to me to have been the 
sensible course of action.
Mr E has also said that Kent Reliance shouldnt have replied to O by second class post. O 
chose to send the request to Kent Reliance by post rather than emailing it across, and what 
Kent Reliance does is to respond via the same medium. That is, email requests get 
responded to by email and postal requests get responded to by post. But that doesnt mean 
first class posted letters also get replied to by first class. Kent Reliance sends all its post 
second class and thats a business decision it has made. Were not the regulator so we cant 
interfere with that decision. Having considered everything Im satisfied Kent Reliance did 
nothing wrong when it replied to O by second class post.
Mr E has now said that O provided a copy of the LOA with its original redemption statement 
request letter. Ive considered this point carefully as if the LOA was provided with the first 
request that Kent Reliance received on 6 December then that would change the outcome of 
this complaint.
Mr Es submissions have changed over the course of this complaint on this point, with his 
original complaint letter saying, I quote:
[O] tell me they would have requested a signed authorisation from me on the 28th of 
november to send with the initial Redemption figure request had they been made aware 
of that prior to instruction, but they looked one at the One Savings Bank spreadsheet 
having been directed to do so.
Up until our investigator rejected his complaint Mr E maintained that an LOA wasnt provided 
by O due to the information recorded on the spreadsheet, and he clearly stated that O told 
him it hadnt provided the LOA.After our investigator rejected the complaint Mr E said, I quote:
They tell me that a printed copy of this consent with it''s digital signature is normally 
sent with the first request for a redemption statement, a fact I did not know, and they 
are currently checking to tell me whether this was sent to Kent Reliance on the 4th 
december. I was under the impression that because the One Bank data held on their 
spreadsheet says no borrower authorisation is required by One Bank, none was sent. 
I will come back to you on this.
Well [O] are now saying that a letter of authority was sent with their first written letter 
sent by first class mail on 4th december 2020 with my digital signature on it.
Generally, we find in cases like this that the first submissions are the most reliable, not least 
because they are closer to the incident in question so arent affected by memories fading 
over time. In addition, Ive studied the letter from O dated 4 December and having done so 
Im satisfied  on balance  that an LOA wasnt included with it. I say this because the letter 
says We act with the authority of the above named If an LOA was enclosed, Id expect 
reference of that fact to be made within this letter, especially at that point.
To summarise my findings so far, Im satisfied;
the LOA was needed, 
it wasnt enclosed with Os letter of 4 December,
Kent Reliance received Os letter on 6 December, 
Kent Reliance replied to the letter on 12 December in line with its five working day 
turnaround time, and
The letter of 12 December was posted to O second class in line with Kent Reliances 
normal practice.
Now Ill move onto what happened from 16 December onwards.
On 16 December Mr E emailed an LOA to Kent Reliance, so at that point Kent Reliance 
could place the redemption statement request back in the queue. Mr E has said he doesnt 
understand why it needed another five days as Kent Reliance had opened the email and 
could have just generated the statement. But that wouldnt be fair on all its other customers 
that had provided the right information already and had waited their turn. Once Kent 
Reliance had all the information it needed (which was on 16 December) then the request 
could go into the redemption statement request queue. There would have been many other 
customers already in that queue that had previously provided their LOAs so it would be 
entirely inappropriate for Mr E to have queue jumped. 
The five working day turnaround from 16 December takes us to 23 December. I understand 
Mr E says O didnt receive the redemption statement until 24 December and it should have 
been emailed across as the most recent request was a chase up from O by email.
The redemption statement request was by post; that was on 4 December. Anything that 
happened subsequently doesnt override that, so I cant say Kent Reliance did anything 
wrong by sending it out by post. But in any event the complaint doesnt turn on that, as the 
fifth working day after 16 December was 23 December and Kent Reliance faxed the 
redemption statement to O that day. So even if it was set to email the redemption statement 
out, Kent Reliance wouldnt have guaranteed sending it to O by email until 23 December, 
which is the same day it was faxed to O.
Finally, Mr E has said, I quote:In mid november [O] wrote to me asking me to set up a portal on their website and 
supply my contact details, bank account details etc. As soon as this was done [the 
new lender] paid the money to pay off the Kent Reliance mortgage [approx £337,000] 
plus £5,000 extra to [Os] client account before end of November
 [Kent Reliance] were told the [new lenders] mortgage was approved and a sum 
in excess of the mortgage with [Kent Reliance] was in [Os] client account, ready for 
immediate transfer as soon as the exact figure to be paid was known
Given that [Kent Reliance] knew the funds were ready to transfer immediately on the 
5th of december that is totally unreasonable.
Kent Reliance wouldnt have known a new mortgage had been approved or for how much. 
All O told it was that a redemption statement was required. It could have been that Mr E was 
selling his house or that he had come into some money and was completely repaying his 
mortgage. It also could have been a request at an early stage of a remortgage application so 
the parties involved were sure Mr E was borrowing enough.
In any event, I think theres been a misunderstanding here on Mr Es part. The funds from 
the new lender wouldnt have been sitting in Os account since the end of November. When 
a remortgage is being carried out the solicitor involved will normally request the funds from 
the new lender for either the day of completion, or for the day before. So here, if Mr Es 
remortgage was due to complete on 31 December (for example) then O would have 
obtained the funds from the new lender on either 30 or 31 December. It would then, upon 
receipt of the money from the new lender, transfer the funds onto Kent Reliance that were 
needed to redeem its mortgage. O wouldnt (and couldnt) obtain the funds in advance and 
sit on them for weeks. Thats just not how it works.
In summary, its unfortunate that O didnt email its request to Kent Reliance on 4 December 
(enclosing Mr Es LOA) as had it done so I see no reason to believe a redemption statement 
wouldnt have been emailed to O on 11 December. Having considered everything Im 
satisfied that Kent Reliance acted fairly and reasonably at all times and for that reason I cant 
uphold this complaint, however much Mr E may want me to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of the complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr E to accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman