DRN-2698704
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim on their home 
emergency policy.
Both Mr and Mrs L are named policyholders on their Aviva policy, so any claim or complaint 
is brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information about the 
complaint has been provided by Mr L, Ill refer mainly to Mr L from here onward.
Mr and Mrs Ls Homeserve policy was underwritten by Aviva. While all of Mr Ls 
communications have been with Homeserve, for simplicity Ill refer mainly to Aviva in my 
decision. Any reference to Aviva includes its agents, including Homeserve.
What happened
In September 2020, their boiler broke down and Mr L called Avivas agent. Avivas engineer 
attended, identified the fault, and decided the cost of new parts meant the boiler was beyond 
economical repair (BER). 
Aviva explained that the boiler was over seven years old and, under the policy terms, Mr L 
was liable for the cost of installing a replacement. It quoted him £1,532 for this. Mr L 
disputed this and said:
It wasnt reasonable for Aviva to say the boiler was over seven years old based 
solely on the June 2013 manufacture date.
Avivas installation quote was excessive.
He was prepared to either pay £600 for Aviva to install the new boiler, or Aviva 
should provide the boiler and he would arrange for it to be installed by his own 
engineer.
The policy term stating the customer must pay Aviva to install the new boiler was 
unfair.
Aviva didnt agree. Instead, it offered Mr L £365, representing the cost price to Aviva of a 
new boiler. Mr and Mrs L didnt accept this, so they brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that Avivas finding that the boiler was over seven years old was reasonable, and this meant 
Mr L was liable for the installation of a replacement. He thought Avivas offer to pay for the 
replacement boiler was fair. 
Mr and Mrs L disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for the same 
reasons.
First, Ive looked at the age of the boiler and the policy terms. The relevant section of Mr Ls 
policy says:
If upon making a claim after the first 6 months of cover your boiler is deemed to be 
BER or the parts required to fix your boiler are obsolete and the boiler is less than 7 
years old, we will source, replace and install a new boiler. If the boiler is deemed 
beyond economical repair and is 7 years or older, we will source, replace and install 
a new boiler but you will be required to pay the installation costs. We will provide for 
you, a quote for this work.
This is also set out in the policy summary (If your boiler is BER, we'll replace it. You'll just 
need to pay us for installation if it's over 7 years old) and Insurance Product Information 
Document (If the boiler is over 7 years of age we will source, replace and install a new 
boiler, but you will be required to pay for the installation costs).
Avivas internal notes show the manufacturer said the boiler was made in 2013, week 11. 
This means June 2013. Aviva told Mr L that it would accept the boilers installation date if he 
could show evidence of this. Unfortunately he was unable to do this. Mr L suggested that 
even if the boiler was manufactured in June 2013, the chances are its less than seven 
years old to the date of claim. I think thats too big an assumption, so I think its reasonable 
for Aviva to accept the manufacturers date. That means the boiler was more than seven 
years old when the fault happened in September 2020 and Mr L was liable for the cost of 
installing a replacement.
Theres nothing in the policy that says that if a boiler needs to be replaced because its BER, 
Aviva will offer a replacement that the customer can have fitted independently. I think Avivas 
reasons for not doing this  that it wouldnt guarantee work carried out by a third party and 
couldnt be sure the boiler was installed correctly if there were subsequent problems  are 
understandable. So I dont think Aviva acted unfairly by declining Mr Ls request for this.
I know Mr L believes Avivas installation quote was too high. And I can understand why he 
was unhappy with this when he found lower quotes elsewhere. But his policy doesnt say 
Aviva will offer the cheapest installation fee. So I cant see that its done anything wrong 
here.
Theres also nothing in the policy that says that a customer can have a cash contribution 
towards a new boiler not provided by Aviva. Aviva has offered to pay £365 towards this. In 
the circumstances, I think this is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman