DRN-4492684
Complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt reimburse him after he fell victim to a scam.
Background
In August 2023, Mr C paid £618 to an individual selling a DJ controller on a popular social 
media site. He was told the goods would be sent to him, but he didnt receive them. The 
seller has since stopped contact with him.
Once he realised hed fallen victim to a scam, he contacted Monzo. It contacted the 
receiving bank  i.e., the bank that operated the account used by the seller  in an effort to 
recover his funds but this was unsuccessful. It also considered his dispute under the terms 
of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. It didnt 
think it was required to reimburse him because it considered Mr C had made the payment 
without a reasonable basis for believing that the seller was legitimate. 
Mr C wasnt happy with the response he received from Monzo and so he referred his 
complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who upheld it and 
recommended Monzo reimburse him in full. Monzo didnt respond to the Investigator and so 
the case has been passed to me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, that isnt the 
end of the story. Monzo has agreed to abide by the terms of the Lending Standards Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM code). This code requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victim of authorised push payment (APP) scams, 
like the one Mr C fell victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
Under the CRM Code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that 
one of the exceptions applies. In this case, it argues that an exception does apply. The Code 
says that a firm doesnt need to reimburse a customer in full if in all the circumstances at the 
time of the payment, in particular the characteristics of the Customer and the complexity and 
sophistication of the APP scam, the customer made the payment without a reasonable basis 
for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the 
payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they 
transacted was legitimate.
Ive considered this carefully and Im not persuaded that this exception applies. In other 
words, I think Mr C did have a reasonable basis for thinking this was a legitimate sale. I say 
that because:
- The price he paid was broadly in line with the price on other listings for the same 
device. Hed been saving up to buy this piece of equipment for several months and 
had seen others put up for sale during this period.
- While it was significantly less than the new price, Mr C speculated that an updated 
and improved version of that device had been launched and some individuals were 
selling to fund an upgrade.
- Mr C looked up the seller on the social media site and found that hed been an active 
member for the best part of ten years and there was evidence on his profile 
suggesting he was a professional DJ. Mr C inferred from this that the seller was 
legitimate. I dont find that conclusion to be an unreasonable one in the 
circumstances.
- Mr C had used this online marketplace before and paid sellers by bank transfer 
without a problem. I dont think it wouldve occurred to him, in view of his prior 
experience, that he was taking a risk by paying by bank transfer, rather than another 
payment channel.
- He didnt inspect the item before paying for it but there was a significant distance 
between his home and the sellers  he couldnt realistically have inspected it without 
a round-trip of at least ten hours.
From the evidence Ive seen, I dont think there was anything that ought to have put Mr C on 
notice that there was a risk of fraud and I think the steps that he did take to protect himself 
were proportionate and reasonable in the circumstances. Overall, as Ive found that Mr C 
had a reasonable basis of belief, Im persuaded that Monzo shouldve reimbursed him under 
the CRM Code.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint.
If Mr C accepts my decision, Monzo Bank Limited should refund the money he lost to the 
scam. It should also add 8% simple interest per annum calculated to run from the date it 
declined his claim under the CRM until the date any settlement is paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman