DRN-1649586
 
The complaint
This complaints about payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out to protect a credit card 
account. Mrs G says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Mrs G applied for a credit card with Barclays in 2001. At the same time, PPI was added to 
her account that was designed to help protect her repayments if she couldnt work due to 
disability or unemployment. It also included life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. As Mrs G didnt agree with the 
adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Gs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Barclays should have made clear to Mrs G that it was selling her optional PPI and got her 
agreement before adding it. I dont know for sure what happened, but Ive seen a copy of 
Mrs Gs signed credit card application form. This indicates to me that the credit card and PPI 
was arranged in a branch meeting, as Barclays has said. 
The form shows the box for Mrs G to accept PPI was marked with an X  while the box to 
decline PPI was left unmarked. On balance, I think Barclays made it clear that Mrs G was 
being offered optional PPI and that she chose to take it  although I can understand if she 
doesnt remember that now after all this time.
If Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs G, it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
And, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, she wasnt significantly affected by any of the main exclusions to, or limits on, the 
PPI cover. 
It may be that Mrs G was entitled to redundancy pay and enhanced sick pay from her 
employer. But the PPI benefits would have paid out in addition to her employers pay and for 
longer at up to 12 months per claim. Ive also thought about the other cover Mrs G says she 
held to protect her in the event of accident, sickness and unemployment. However, from 
what she told Barclays after raising her complaint, it seems that was linked to her mortgage. 
So, I can see how separate PPI to cover the credit card might have been useful.
Overall, I believe the PPI provided Mrs G with worthwhile extra protection.  Regarding the information Barclays gave Mrs G about the PPI at the time, its possible this 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. But she chose to take it out  so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mrs Gs lost out because of how Barclays sold 
her the PPI.
My final decision 
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman