DRN-4140176
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about how Santander UK Plc dealt with its Know Your Customer 
(KYC) process.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P complain that Santander blocked their account following its KYC process 
despite them providing it with required information. They say they were concerned about the 
origin of telephone calls to them and concerned about their account security. Mrs P says she 
lost about £165 in lost wages due to taking time off work to attend a branch and that 
Santander incorrectly recorded their residence location. Mr and Mrs P would like about £600 
compensation.
Santander says its obliged to follow its regulatory duties but accepts it made a mistake with 
the residence location. Its offered £150 compensation and says the block was lifted some 
five days after being applied in November 2022.
Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to us, and our investigator recommended Santander 
increase its compensation offer to £200. The investigator accepted the KYC process can 
cause inconvenience and explained our role to them.
Mr and Mrs P say this issue took about nine weeks to resolve and question why Santander 
waited some four years to follow the KYC process.
Santander has agreed to pay £200 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think that Santander has fairly agreed to pay £200 compensation which I 
think is appropriate for what took place. I appreciate Mr and Mrs P will be disappointed by 
my decision and confirm I have read all of their detailed submissions about what took place, 
which do not need repeating in this decision as the points are well known. I also make clear 
to the parties that we are not Santanders regulator and its not our role to punish it or direct 
it about how it operates its KYC policy. I say that as I can see Mrs P questions the timescale 
of Santanders information request.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ps concern about their account security and their concern about the 
identity of the makers of telephone calls to them. I also accept the nature of KYC requests 
inevitably means that personal information is potentially provided. So, I understand Mr and 
Mrs Ps reluctance to initially provide information but of course also accept that Santander is 
under a duty to make such requests. It follows that I cant fairly conclude either side made a 
mistake in a general respect and understand both sides view.
Im satisfied that the KYC process inevitably involves a level of inconvenience in providing 
information. I cant in those circumstances fairly direct Santander pay for Mrs Ps loss of 
wages for example. But I accept that Santander did make mistakes in incorrectly recording 
the residence details and could have handled parts of this complaint more appropriately.
The only real issue for me to consider is the compensation level. I have made clear that 
some inconvenience is inevitable in these circumstances and think such KYC requests take 
some time to sort out. I dont think what took place justifies £600 compensation as Mr and 
Mrs P would like and think the block was lifted within a few days of being applied. I cant 
fairly conclude the block was incorrectly applied when it clear there are different views on the 
compliance with the KYC process.
I accept Mr and Mrs P will have ongoing concerns about what took place and will have 
unanswered questions that this service simply cant answer. But overall, I think that £200 
compensation is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
Santander should pay the £200 compensation if Mr and Mrs P accept this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Santander UK Plc pay Mr 
and Mrs P £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman