DRN-2851273
The complaint
Mrs A complains about the end of contract charges applied by PSA Finance UK Limited 
when she voluntary terminated a conditional sale agreement and handed the car back.  
What happened
In November 2016 Mrs A entered into a three-year conditional sale agreement with PSA for 
a used car. At the point of supply the car was just over two years old and had a mileage of 
73,000.
In October 2019 Mrs A decided to voluntary terminate the agreement and return the car. She 
contacted PSA to make the necessary arrangements. The car was collected, and an 
inspection report was prepared. A number of areas of damage to the car together with an 
incorrect specification of tyre having been fitted to one of the wheels were found. PSA sent 
Mrs A an invoice for the end of contract charges amounting to £653.98.
Mrs A was unhappy about the end of contract charges and said the damage raised was all 
within fair wear and tear. She complained to PSA and said it hadnt taken into account the 
age of the car which was now five years old and it had a mileage of 142,650.
PSA didnt uphold Mrs As complaint. It said that the report together with the photos taken of 
the car clearly showed that it had sustained damage outside fair wear and tear and the 
charges were in line with the agreements terms and conditions.
Mrs A disagreed with PSAs decision and complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that her complaint should be partially upheld. He said in reaching his view he 
had considered the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Associations (BVRLA) guidelines, 
as these set the industry standard for what is and isnt considered fair wear and tear. He had 
also taken into account the age and mileage of the car when it was returned.
Our investigator said that the charges in respect of the damage found on the bumper, 
windscreen, bonnet and one of the rear doors was unfair as no allowance for the cars age 
had been given by PSA. He said it would be reasonable to expect a five-year old car to show 
wear in its bodywork.
However, our investigator said he thought the charges for the damage to the tailgate, the 
seat base assy and the incorrect tyre having been fitted were fair.
PSA said it agreed with the recommendation of our investigator, but Mrs A disagreed and so 
the complaint has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms and conditions of the conditional sale agreement it is Mrs As responsibility 
to keep the car in good condition and if she doesnt then she will be liable for the costs of 
any damage.
Mrs A says that the damage found on the car was either due to fair wear and tear or had 
been present when she was supplied with the car. When Mrs A took possession of the car it 
was around two years old, but it had a mileage of 73,000 so although it was still fairly new it 
had been subjected to a lot of use. So, I think some signs of wear and tear would have been 
likely. Mrs A says the car was supplied with the broken seat base assy and corrosion to the 
tailgate/boot as the paint had been bubbling in that area. But I dont have any evidence 
about the condition the car was supplied in and where evidence is missing or contradictory, I 
have to decide what the most likely thing to have happened would be.
Here, I think if the car had been supplied with these two issues then its more likely than not 
that it would either have been noted or Mrs A would have raised it with the dealer before 
taking the car. Ive seen a complaint was made about the condition of the car by Mrs A after 
she had acquired it, but as far as I am aware that wasnt about a cracked seat base assy or 
that there was paintwork damage or corrosion on the tailgate/boot. And as I cant reasonably 
say these areas of damage were present when Mrs A acquired the car then I think PSA 
acted fairly in raising them as potential end of contract charges. 
Looking firstly at the corrosion on the boot/tailgate which has been charged for by PSA. This 
damage is clearly seen in the photos provided with the condition report on the car. And 
despite the age and mileage of the car Im satisfied that what is shown falls outside of what 
would be considered fair wear and tear. I think PSA has acted fairly when it charged Mrs A 
for this damage.
In regard to the cracked seat base assy, I dont know how this has happened, but I think 
damage to the interior fittings of the car wouldnt be reasonably expected even if the car was 
five years old and had been driven for 142,650 miles. I think PSA has acted fairly charging 
Mrs A for this damage.
Ive seen that Mrs A was also charged for having the wrong specification of tyre fitted. Mrs A 
says that this isnt her fault as it was put on by a tyre company and she was unaware of it. 
While I accept it wasnt a deliberate action of Mrs A to return the car with an incorrect tyre 
fitted, I dont think I can fairly say it isnt her responsibility to put it right. Under the agreement 
the condition of the car was her responsibility. Mrs A could make a complaint to the garage 
that fitted the tyre. So, I think PSA acted fairly charging Mrs A for this tyre.
Our investigator set out in his view as to why he thought the damage charges for the scratch 
to the rear door, the cracked windscreen, the dented bonnet and the paint flaking on the 
front bumper were unfair. Ive seen that PSA has agreed that its fair that these items are 
necessary for me to set out why I agree, save to say that I wouldnt expect the BVRLA 
guidelines to be applied as strictly as they would have been had this car been returned after 
its first leasing cycle.
Although I appreciate this will be disappointing to Mrs A, I am partially upholding her 
complaint in regard to some of the end of contract damages.  I think its fair for PSA to 
charge for the tyre, the tailgate/boot corrosion and the cracked seat base assy but nothing 
else. I think these three charges are in line with the agreements terms and conditions and all 
fall outside of what would be considered fair wear and tear. And I am asking PSA to remove 
the other items of damage.
Putting things right 
Im asking PSA to remove all but three of the charges from the end of contract charges. The 
items of damage that will remain are; the tyre £159.00; the tailgate/boot £122 and the cracked seat base assy £63,98. Leaving a total amount of end of contract charges of 
£344.98.
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im partially upholding Mrs As complaint. I am asking PSA 
Finance UK Limited to reduce the end of contract charges to £344.98 to reflect the damage 
found that was beyond fair wear and tear to the tailgate/boot and the seat base assy and for 
the wrong specification of tyre having been fitted.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman