DRN-1102565
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has declined his home 
insurance claim for theft following a burglary, and voided his policy from the point of last 
renewal (treated it as though it hadnt existed from then on) for underinsurance.
What happened
In November 2018 Mr P and his partner suffered a distressing burglary at their home when it 
was broken into and they were attacked. A number of valuable items of jewellery and a large 
amount of cash were stolen. RSA appointed loss adjusters and asked Mr P to complete a 
loss list. Specialist jewellers were appointed to estimate the value of items stolen. Mr P and 
his partner had four items of jewellery specified on the policy as being valued at over £2,000. 
His partner also had two items (earrings and a pendant) which werent specified which shed 
been given as a gift some years previously. She didnt appreciate that that they might be 
worth more than £2,000 each. RSAs jewellers estimated the value of those two items at 
respectively £17,500 and £20,000. 
RSA advised Mr P that the maximum pay-out for stolen cash would be £250. With regard to 
the building it estimated the rebuild value to be £483,000 whilst the sum declared on the 
policy was £300,000. With regard to the contents it said, with the revised value of the 
valuables, that the contents should have been valued at £90,000. The maximum value it 
would insure contents at was £75,000. The policy started in 2007. At the time it would only 
have accepted the policy if the valuables were worth £15,000 or less. Mr Ps partner 
explained that she had sought valuations with jewellers for the two items and had been given 
prices the lower of which were £2,460 (for the earrings) and £5,796 (for the pendant). A 
watch was stolen and recovered when the thief attempted to sell it, it was specified at £2,500 
but was estimated by RSA to be worth around £7,000.
RSA advised that it was voiding the policy back to the renewal date of October 2018 and 
declining the claim because of the considerable level of underinsurance. It said that even 
accepting the lower valuations obtained for the earrings and pendant this still meant they 
were considerably over the £2,000 at which they should have been specified. It pointed out 
that as well as the items stolen it was estimated that £15,000 worth of valuables remained in 
the property. It believed Mr P had failed to declare the value of his contents when renewing 
the policy, despite a warning that he needed to declare any changes to the policy.
Mr P was unhappy with this and referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator after 
reviewing the complaint thought that RSA hadnt asked clear questions at renewal about 
values, so should overturn the voidance and deal with the claim.  
RSA didnt agree and the matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has asked why RSA didnt pay out for the items which werent disputed. When a policy 
is voided the whole claim isnt paid, even if there are items which are correctly valued or the 
undervalue relates to items not claimed for. This is because, as a consequence of being 
voided, the policy is deemed not to exist at the time of the claim. 
Before considering whether RSA is entitled to void the policy, I have to consider the 
provisions of the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012. In order 
for RSA to exercise its rights to take action under the provisions of that Act (to act as it would 
have done if it had known the correct information) it must be shown that a qualifying 
misrepresentation had been made by Mr P. As RSA has only sought to void the policy back 
to the renewal date in October 2018, any misrepresentation must have been made at the 
time of that renewal. Under the Act a consumer has a duty to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation. In considering whether Mr P was in breach of that duty I have to 
consider what questions were asked or what information was required of him at renewal. 
The Act says the following should be taken into account:
in the case of a failure to respond to the insurers questions in connection with the renewal 
or variation of a consumer insurance contract, how clearly the insurer communicated the 
importance of answering those questions (or the possible consequences of failing to do so)
The policy started in 2007 but we dont really know how much the valuables were worth 
then. Most policies these days have some sort of index-linking to cover the rise in value of 
property/contents. The renewal notice from 2018 states:
Please remember to keep us informed about any changes in your circumstances so
we can update your cover and premium accordingly. If you don't let us know about
changes to your situation it could affect any claim you make, or your policy may even
be cancelled.
While I appreciate that Mr P had valuables in excess of the £2,000 limit and that his contents 
were probably worth considerably more than the £50,000 limit on the policy, it requires that 
RSA be advised of any changes, and he didnt have any (so far as he was aware). The 
renewal letter later states, under the heading what are my obligations?:
To make sure the sums insured you have chosen remains adequate for your insurance 
needs, 
Some items, such as jewellery and precious metals, often change in value and you should 
make certain that these items are insured correctly
As the above is in a different part of the letter I dont think RSA made clear what the 
consequences were of not ensuring the sums insured were adequate. 
Further, I think it was difficult for the jewellers to estimate the values of the items stolen, 
especially as they were reliant on descriptions. I note that RSA didnt raise objections to 
Mr Ps partners values obtained of the earrings and pendant, which were markedly different 
from RSAs valuation.
So, as I dont think that the importance of answering questions or the possible consequence 
of failing to do so, regarding values of items was made clear at renewal RSA cant say that a 
qualifying misrepresentation was made. So I dont think its entitled to void the policy.Putting things right
RSA should reinstate the policy and remove any reference to the policy being voided from 
any internal or external databases.
Im going to require RSA to reconsider the claim. It will be allowed to do that in line with the 
remaining policy terms and conditions. Mr P should be aware that there is a policy limit of 
£15,000 for valuables and RSA may consider its entitled to reduce any claim proportionately 
by the amount of underinsurance. The same may apply to any damage to the building. But 
as RSA hasnt specified the amount of underinsurance and how much it might reduce the 
claim by, Mr P must be given the opportunity to challenge any proposed payments. This is 
particularly so in light of the different valuations his partner obtained.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to act as Ive set out 
under Putting things right above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman