DRN-2905943
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice he says he was given by Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) to 
take out a savings plan and a personal pension in 1981. He says the plans werent 
appropriate for his needs at the time.
What happened
In June 1981 Mr C took out a personal pension and a ten plus savings style plan with 
Abbey Life (now part of Phoenix). For ease Ill refer only to Phoenix throughout this decision. 
Mr C agreed to make monthly contributions of £35.53 to the ten plus plan  which 
continued for over 17 years. The term of the plan had been set at 20 years within the initial 
application and the contributions were invested into a property fund. 
In March 1998, a complaint was made on Mr Cs behalf about a number of policies that he 
and his family had been recommended. Phoenix explained that these actions had occurred 
after the adviser left the company and Mr C should approach the adviser, who was now an 
IFA, to explain what had happened. 
In December 1998 Mr C surrendered the ten plus plan and was paid a value of £6,655.08.
In August 2019 Mr C made a further complaint about his plan. He said it had been mis-sold 
and he had suffered significant losses. Phoenix said it had already investigated a complaint 
about the plan in 1998 and therefore it said it couldnt consider his complaint again. It issued 
another final response confirming that situation.
Mr C then brought his complaint about both the savings and pension plans to us, but 
Phoenix objected to us considering it as it said the complaint had been brought outside of 
the time limits allowed. I issued a decision about whether the complaint had been brought in 
time. I said that Phoenixs final response letter in 2019 gave Mr C six months to bring his 
complaint about a pension plan to us. But as he didnt do so his complaint about the pension 
plan had been brought too late and couldnt be considered.
But I said that Phoenix hadnt provided referral rights in its response regarding the ten plus 
savings plan  so I decided that Mr Cs complaint about that plan had been brought in time. 
So, one of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint about the advice to take out a ten 
plus savings plan. She thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said that prior to the 
Financial Services Act 1986, which came into force in 1988, there wasnt a requirement to 
document discussions around financial advice. She said an adviser needed to ensure the 
product it recommended was appropriate, and in Mr Cs case, based on the limited evidence 
she thought it was. She made the following points in support of her findings:
The plan was set up to receive regular contributions and could be used as a pension 
style or savings plan. As Mr C was self-employed at the time, she thought it was 
reasonable to provide him with some form of additional retirement provision.  
Although Mr C spoke little English and thought he couldnt have received appropriate 
advice because he didnt understand the adviser  she didnt think this meant the 
advice couldnt be appropriate. 
Mr Cs investment was in a low risk property fund which she didnt think was too 
high a risk for his cautious profile. 
Although Mr C said he was advised to stop the plan after two years and start another 
plan  that was the responsibility of his adviser who had left and joined a new 
company at that time. But in any case, Mr Cs plan didnt stop after two years and ran 
until 1998.  
She thought the plan was appropriate and gave Mr C the opportunity to achieve his 
aim of saving more towards his retirement using a lower risk fund. 
Mr C didnt agree with the outcome. He raised a number of points about his pension policy 
but specifically didnt agree with my decision that the complaint about that plan had been 
brought too late and couldnt be considered. 
With regards to the savings plan he said that after 17 years of contributions totaling 
£7,248.12, the final value he received was £5,987.36  a loss of £1,260.76. He said that, as 
the average interest rate at the time was over 12% (during the first 10 years of the plan at 
least), the plans performance had been abysmal.  He didnt think wed considered the 
complaint point about the savings plan at all. 
The investigator said she could only consider the complaint point about the savings plan  
not the personal pension. But she confirmed the adviser only needed to ensure the plan was 
appropriate and as Mr C was self-employed she thought it was. 
Mr C then asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  so its been passed to 
me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the investigator and for largely the same reasons. I know 
this is an outcome that will disappoint Mr C  so Ill explain my reasons. 
The jurisdiction decision on the pension plan
In my previous decision I said that Mr Cs complaint about his pension plan wasnt one we 
could consider, because it had been brought outside the time limits allowed.
Mr C has said that he doesnt agree with that outcome because he doesnt think Phoenixs 
final response letter (FRL) was actually sent to him. Hes always maintained that, as the FRL 
was dated the day after he received an acknowledgement of his complaint, it wouldnt have 
been possible to complete the further investigation required to reach a conclusion within that 
one day. 
Ive already said that we cant consider this part of Mr Cs complaint, but I want to explain 
again within this final decision why that was the case.
On 22 August 2019 Mr C was issued with an FRL about his pension that gave him six 
months to bring a complaint to this service if he wanted to do so. Mr C didnt bring his 
complaint to us until 5 April 2020  which was outside that six month period, so it was 
brought outside of the time limits allowed and therefore isnt a complaint we can consider. I 
said in my decision that there was no evidence to suggest the FRL was anything but authentic and was sent out on the correct date. Nothing Mr C has said subsequently has 
persuaded me to take a different view here. 
Regardless of Mr Cs concerns about the FRL, it did set out his referral rights for bringing his 
complaint to a dispute resolution service, and while I dont dispute Mr Cs assertion that he 
didnt receive it, Im satisfied it was sent to the correct address. So I cant reasonably say 
Phoenix did anything wrong regarding the letter and as Mr C failed to refer to this service 
within the time allowed, we cant consider his complaint about his pension plan for the 
reasons given.
The complaint about the suitability of the savings plan
Mr C has complained that the ten plus savings plan that was recommended to him in 1981 
wasnt suitable for his needs. He said this was highlighted by the poor returns he received 
when he encashed the plan.
So Ive started by looking at the documents that are available from the time of the sale in 
1981 as, due to the passage of time, little evidence remains of the transaction. Ive seen a 
copy of the application form which showed that Mr C was 44 years old and had agreed to 
pay £35.53 for a ten plus savings plan with a sum assured of £4,235 and the inclusion of a 
term assurance plan for £15,000 over a term of 20 years. 
Given that Mr C also took out a personal pension plan at the same time the ten plus plan 
provided him with additional savings and life cover up to his retirement age. And given that 
he owned a shop and was therefore self-employed  and had young children, I cant 
reasonably say the plan wasnt appropriate. 
Mr C says he didnt understand the adviser at the time as he spoke little English  so the 
plan must have been inappropriate. Im not able to confirm what conversation took place 
around 40 years ago, with no documentary evidence to support the discussion. But I note 
Mr C was able to provide the necessary information required to complete the application 
form  such as doctors details and his bank account, so I have to conclude he was content 
to apply for the plan and signed to accept it. 
But even if I am wrong in my assumptions, theres still no evidence to suggest the plan was 
inappropriate for Mr Cs objectives at the time. The aim of the plan was to provide tax-free 
capital and/or income for a wide range of circumstances up to and including retirement, as 
well as the opportunity to include life assurance. So, looking at what was known about 
Mr Cs circumstances at the time, I cant reasonably say that it wasnt in line his needs.
 
Mr C has also pointed to his valuation of the plan compared with the contributions he made 
in order to highlight what he says was an abysmal investment performance. Phoenixs own 
records show that the surrender value of the plan that was paid to Mr C in 1998 was higher 
than the value of the contributions that were made  particularly when the contribution that 
was directed towards the life assurance was taken into account. 
But, in any case, poor investment performance  in isolation  isnt something we would 
normally consider as the basis for upholding a complaint. Thats because the very nature of 
investments means that their value can fluctuate depending on market conditions, which isnt 
something Phoenix can control. So I cant safely uphold this part of the complaint because, 
and I know Mr C will disagree with this, I cant say Phoenix did anything wrong which might 
have meant he didnt achieve the final returns he was hoping for.Mr C has also referred to the fund he was invested in as being too high a risk for him. Mr C 
was invested in the property fund, which was one of only four funds available for investment. 
It was described as the largest of its kind in Britain and provides the opportunity to 
participate in the steadily increasing rental and other income of the fund and offers sound 
prospects for capital growth. I appreciate that investing directly in commercial property 
might be considered as quite a high risk, but this was investment into a fund  where the risk 
could be spread across a large variety of properties. 
Ive looked the other funds that were available to Mr C and I dont think the selection of the 
property fund was necessarily too high a risk for his objectives and circumstances. I dont 
know the extent of the conversation that Mr C had with Phoenix in 1981 about his attitude to 
risk or whether he expressed any preference for property based funds. But I dont consider 
the fund that was selected was necessarily outside of a normal level of risk and I think it 
was probably reasonably in line with what Mr C would have been able to tolerate as a 
capacity for investment risk in his circumstances.
Ultimately, I cant find any reason to demonstrate that the ten plus plan wasnt suitable for 
Mr C. I appreciate he isnt happy with the plan or the benefit he received from it  but that 
doesnt make it unsuitable. Its unfortunate if the investment returns didnt provide Mr C with 
the sort of growth he was expecting, but I cant say that Phoenix was responsible for that 
outcome. I dont think the plan was inappropriate for Mr Cs requirements in 1981. 
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman