DRN-3878353
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the service she received from Automobile Association Insurance 
Services Limited (the AA) when trying to cancel her car insurance. 
Mrs D is represented in bringing this complaint.
What happened
Mrs D held a car insurance policy through the AA. By way of background, Mrs D has a 
serious hearing impairment which means she is unable to use the phone. 
In August 2022 Mrs Ds daughter called the AA to attempt to cancel Mrs Ds insurance policy 
but was unable to as the AA were unable to verify Mrs D at the time. Mrs Ds daughter then 
attempted to cancel the policy using the AAs online chat, but this request was also declined. 
Mrs D said that she and her daughter made several attempts by different methods to cancel 
the policy, but were prevented from doing so, so she chose to cancel her direct debit.
The policy was eventually cancelled on 17 August, after the AA received written 
communication from Mrs D. But, unhappy with the overall service received, Mrs D 
complained. She said she didnt think the AA had made reasonable adjustments to support 
her in relation to her hearing impairment, and she was unhappy with the overall service, 
which included both how her daughter was spoken to over the phone, and the fact she was 
sent a default notice after the direct debit was cancelled. She also said it wasnt made clear 
what the outstanding monies owed were for, or how she could make any outstanding 
payments due, given that she was unable to use the phone. 
The AA responded. They said they were sorry Mrs D was unhappy with the service provided. 
However, they felt theyd followed the correct process in order to protect Mrs Ds account. 
They said that when Mrs Ds daughter called to cancel the policy, they were unable to gain 
authorisation from Mrs D to speak with her, and therefore, they were unable to process the 
cancelation request. They said that Mrs D would instead need to write in and provide written 
authorisation, which they ultimately received, and processed the cancellation following this.  
But they said that they didnt allow the policy to be cancelled using their webchat following 
the initial call, as Mrs Ds daughter had made it clear that it would be her that would be 
attempting to process the cancellation using the webchat, rather than Mrs D. 
Regarding the default notice, the AA said this was sent because the direct debit was 
cancelled while an outstanding balance was due, which is a breach of the terms and 
conditions. They said that the balance outstanding on the account was £38.22, which 
consisted of a £28 arrangement fee, with the remainder covering unpaid costs and interest 
for the period of time the vehicle remained on risk. They said that no cancellation fee was 
charged on this occasion. They also said that they reviewed the call that Mrs D complained 
about, but they were satisfied that their agent remained professional and courteous 
throughout, and they were unable to evidence any inappropriate or unprofessional behaviour 
being demonstrated. Unhappy with this, Mrs D brought her complaint to our service.
An investigator considered Mrs Ds complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He said he 
was satisfied that the AA were not required to make any changes to Mrs Ds policy when her 
daughter called as they were unable to verify Mrs D. And equally, he didnt think it was 
unreasonable for them not to process the request through their webchat, as Mrs Ds 
daughter had made it clear that it would be her doing this, rather than her Mother following 
that call. 
He was also satisfied that the AA had offered reasonable alternatives for ways that Mrs D 
could process her request, and felt that they had treated her fairly in this regard. And he 
didnt think it was unreasonable for the AA to send Mrs D a default notice following the 
cancellation of the direct debit. 
But Mrs D remained unhappy. So, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D has set out her position at length and Id like to thank her for taking the time to do so. 
But my findings will concentrate on those matters I consider central to the outcome of this 
complaint. So, while I have considered everything, I may not explicitly address each and 
every point Mrs D has made. I trust this wont be taken as a discourtesy, but reflects the 
informal nature of this service. 
Also, to be clear, if I was to conclude that there were any shortcoming on the AAs part, I 
would only be considering the impact these had on Mrs D, rather than on her daughter, as it 
is Mrs D who is the eligible complainant here. 
Turning to Mrs Ds first concern, that the AA did not cancel her policy at the time her 
daughter called in early August 2022. Ive listened to the call, and at the beginning, Mrs Ds 
daughter makes it clear that she is calling, and that the policy is in her mothers name. She 
explains that her mother had a fall while on holiday and she is now going to stop driving. She 
said that her mother has already gotten rid of the car, and she needs to cancel her mothers 
policy. 
The advisor explains, that there is no authority unfortunately on the account to discuss 
matters relating to Mrs Ds account with her daughter, but asked if it would be possible to get 
an email sent in from Mrs D, to request the policy be cancelled and give authority to speak 
with her daughter. But Mrs Ds daughter says that it is her email account on file, and that 
they should not be discriminating against disabled people because they cant talk on the 
phone. But the advisor explained that for any cancellation of a policy, they would need 
authorisation from Mrs D directly. 
Mrs D then asks if I send an email from my email address saying that my Mum wants to 
cancel then you will accept that will you? Mrs D makes it clear that she will be the one 
sending the email, not her mother. She said, that in fairness, her mother could just cancel 
the direct debit, and then asks, what are you going to do about that?.
The advisor is trying to help Mrs Ds daughter with what would be needed to cancel the 
policy. And she explains that when Mrs Ds mother is present, she can contact them through 
the online chat. She also says that she shouldnt cancel the direct debit as this could impact 
Mrs Ds credit file. Mrs Ds daughter then says that she herself could go online and do this 
herself without her mother being present. Mrs Ds daughter then makes it clear that she is 
going to go online, input her mothers information, and request to cancel it through the chat system herself. She then says bye and terminates the call. So, at this point, the AA have 
been made aware that someone who is not set up as an authorised person to discuss 
Mrs Ds policy on her behalf, is now going to attempt to cancel Mrs Ds policy online. 
Following the above call, an attempt is then made shortly after using the AAs online chat, 
from a party claiming to be Mrs D, to cancel Mrs Ds policy. But the AA advise that they cant 
discuss this policy by webchat. 
Mrs D has made several arguments in response to the view about how the business couldnt 
be aware of who was or wasnt present at the time of the online chat access. Shes also 
made reference to carers having rights to act on behalf of a customer under the Equality Act. 
But the argument here is not that Mrs Ds daughter is not allowed to represent her mother, 
but the fact that the AA require authorisation from Mrs D in order for her to do this. The only 
times this may not be required would be in situations such as when the carer may have a 
Power of Attorney for instance. 
And while Mrs Ds daughter has raised several arguments about how the business would be 
unable to confirm whether or not Mrs D was present during any of the chats that took place, 
and I can understand the points she has raised here, this does not detract from the fact that 
the AA needed to confirm that Mrs Ds daughter was authorised to act on her behalf, and 
had internal security measures in place that it had to follow in order to do so. 
And, in the above instance, the AA didnt need to fully confirm whether or not Mrs D was 
present, as I think it was reasonable, given Mrs Ds daughters comments just moments 
earlier, that it was likely it was her that was online attempting to carry out these actions 
without Mrs D present, rather than Mrs D herself. And there was no confirmation on the 
account that Mrs Ds daughter was entitled to act on her mothers behalf, other than from 
Mrs Ds daughter directly. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for the AA to refuse Mrs Ds 
request at this time. 
Within the initial online chat, I can see the AA asked Mrs D to call in. I appreciate that this 
was not great service, given that they now seem to have been made aware that Mrs D was 
deaf. But that being said, they had not been made aware of this by Mrs D directly. And had 
instead been made aware of this by someone that the AA had not received authorisation 
from Mrs D to speak with. So, while I think the AA couldve potentially done more to signpost 
Mrs D to other ways to transact at this stage, given that its unlikely they were speaking with 
Mrs D at this point, I dont think I can fairly say that the level of service provided to the 
account holder, Mrs D, necessarily fell short here. And Im unable to consider any distress 
caused to Mrs Ds daughter personally as she is not the eligible complainant here. That 
aside, I am satisfied that the way the AA spoke to Mrs Ds daughter during that call was 
polite and professional. 
Following the above calls, the AA have advised that they did ultimately receive written 
confirmation form Mrs D. And as such, they did cancel her policy just a couple of weeks after 
the initial request, which Im pleased to see. 
Mrs D has also said that she was unhappy with the content of the letters that were sent to 
her, and the fact that they said that Mrs D should call in to discuss making payment. Ive 
thought about this carefully, as the AA are required to make reasonable adjustments in order 
for customers to be able to service their accounts. But I can see that when they wrote to 
Mrs D to explain that she was in breach of her credit agreement, they enclosed a Notice of 
Sums in Arrears along with the Financial Conduct Authority information sheet, which 
included other ways for customers to get in touch, such as using text phone. I can also see, that in response to Mrs Ds complaint, that they have now added authority to 
the account for Mrs Ds daughter, which would allow her to contact the AA in regards to any 
account changes or payments that need to be made moving forward. Albeit, I understand 
that this may no longer be required as it seems the policy has now been cancelled. 
I appreciate this may come as disappointment to Mrs D, and I understand that this has been 
a difficult process for her. But I can also fully understand why the AA took the actions they 
did, given that they had not been able to fully satisfy themselves that Mrs Ds daughter was 
authorised to act on her behalf. And I think it would have been wrong for them to have 
accepted her instructions, when taking into account their responsibility to protect their 
customers accounts. So for these reasons, I wont be upholding Mrs Ds complaint.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman