DRN-3213280
The complaint
Mr Y is unhappy that Revolut Ltd hasnt refunded him the money he lost to a scam, where he 
sent in total £1,800 to fraudsters.
What happened
Mr Y received a call from an individual purporting to be from his internet provider. He was 
told his internet had been hacked and that it either needed to be secured or it would be 
disconnected. Mr Y has explained he agreed to the fix for this and says he was asked about 
his devices. He was told there had been an attempt to hack his online banking also. 
Mr Y was told to download two applications to his mobile device by the individual which he 
did. One of these being the Revolut app. Under the instructions of the fraudsters Mr Y 
created a Revolut account. Mr Y then proceeded to move money from his bank account with 
another bank to his Revolut account. He then transferred the money from his Revolut 
account to the fraudsters  to the details hed been provided with. On 20 March 2021 Mr Y 
made two transfers - a payment of £1,500, followed by another for £300. 
Mr Y has told us he moved the money from each of the accounts under the instructions of 
the fraudsters  who were able to see what he was doing. Mr Y became aware hed been 
the victim of a scam when the fraudsters asked about his wifes devices. 
Mr Y contacted Revolut the same day. From the communications Mr Y asked Revolut to 
close the account and provide a refund. It was reported that Mr Y had been the victim of a 
scam on 23 March 2021. At this point, Revolut raised a scam claim and contacted the 
beneficiary bank on 24 March 2021 to see if any funds could be recovered. It received a 
response to say no funds remained. 
Revolut said it wouldnt refund the scam payments as Mr Y had authorised them. It said the 
payments looked legitimate and that by the time Mr Y had contacted it, the payments had 
already been submitted. 
One of our investigators looked into things and didnt think Revolut could have done anything 
to prevent the scam. In summary, he didnt consider the payments were particularly unusual 
or suspicious in their appearance and so thought it reasonable that Revolut didnt identify 
that Mr Y may potentially be the victim of a scam. Our investigator also thought Revolut did 
what it could to try and recover the money for Mr Y, once it knew he had been the victim of a 
scam. 
Mr Y didnt accept our investigators view and so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
For completeness, this decision solely focuses on the actions of Revolut. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr Y, and I can understand entirely why he feels so 
strongly that this money should be returned to him. But having thought very carefully about 
Revoluts actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfers to leave 
Mr Ys account. And, on balance, I also dont think it could have recovered the money from 
the receiving bank, even if it had acted quicker than it did. 
So having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Mr Ys complaint. I do appreciate 
how disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly say Revolut should 
reimburse him the £1,800 he has unfortunately lost to the fraudsters. Ill explain why. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what 
is fair and reasonable in this case. 
But that is not the end of the story and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Revolut should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Revolut acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr Y, when Mr Y made the transfers to the fraudsters and when he reported the fraud, or 
whether it should have done more than it did. 
Mr Y accepts he authorised the transfers, albeit under the instructions of the fraudsters. 
Because of this, Revolut had an obligation to follow his instruction. But there are some 
situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances 
surrounding the transfer - as Ive explained. I consider that as a matter of good practice 
Revolut shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions. In this particular case, our investigator recognised Mr Y had opened the Revolut account for 
the purpose of making the transfers in question  and so it was a new account. Because of 
this, there was no previous activity on the account. 
Having thought carefully about the transfers Mr Y made, I dont think the activity appeared 
particularly suspicious that they ought to have stood out enough for Revolut to have been 
concerned that Mr Y might have been at risk of financial harm from fraud. I also dont find the 
amount of the transfers to be particularly unusual or suspicious in appearance that Revolut 
ought to have stopped them for further investigation before allowing them to be processed. I 
have to keep in mind that customers opening accounts like this, will often do so for a 
particular purpose and so, it doesnt seem unusual that a couple of transactions would follow 
soon after the account was opened. 
Revolut has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual 
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. But on 
balance, I cant fairly say the transfers in this particular case were so unusual or suspicious 
that it ought to have alerted Revolut that Mr Y was at risk of financial harm.
Ive gone on to think about whether Revolut did what it shouldve done once Mr Y reported to 
it, that hed been the victim of a scam. Ive looked into the attempts Revolut made to recover 
the money, once Mr Y reported the scam. In order for me to be able to fairly ask Revolut to 
refund the money to Mr Y, I need to be satisfied that Revolut should have acted sooner in 
trying to recover the money. And if I dont think it acted soon enough, I need to decide 
whether it made any difference. 
Our investigator noted there appeared to be some confusion when Mr Y first asked for a 
refund, but said he was satisfied Revolut did what it could to recover Mr Ys funds once it 
was aware of the scam  which he thought was from 23 March 2021 when it came to light he 
didnt know the beneficiary. At this time, no funds remained in the beneficiarys account. 
When considering the contact between Mr Y and Revolut on 20 March 2021, even if I 
consider that contact with the beneficiary bank could have been made sooner than it was, 
Im satisfied this wouldnt have made a difference here. This is because, from the information 
provided I can see the money was very quickly moved on by the fraudsters and before Mr Y 
contacted Revolut on 20 March 2021. So I dont think there was anything more Revolut 
could have done to recover the money Mr Y lost as a result of the scam. 
I have considerable sympathy for what Mr Y has been through. There is no doubt that he 
has been the victim of a cruel scam. But I am only able to consider whether Revolut can 
fairly be held liable for his loss. After carefully considering everything, Im unable to fairly say 
Revolut should reimburse the money Mr Y has lost. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 Staci Rowland
Ombudsman