DRN-1852532
The complaint
Mrs P complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited unfairly refused her claim 
brought under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. She wants to reject the goods 
and obtain a refund. 
What happened
Mrs P says that in June 2017 she had a new cooker installed which was supplied by a local 
company Ill call T. She states that from the outset shes had problems with the oven not 
venting properly. And that this has caused large amounts of steam to emit when the oven 
door is opened. And that theres been an accumulation of water both within the oven and on 
the floor near to the oven due to the venting fault. Mrs P states that she purchased the oven 
using her JLFSL partnership card and a credit card provided by a separate business Ill refer 
to as N. She says the ovens been inspected several times. And that shes provided an 
independent report from an engineer, who Ill refer to as W, which shows it was not 
operating correctly due to inadequate vents not allowing the steam to escape.
JLFSL told us that the oven appeared to be working correctly. And that the manufacturers 
and suppliers inspectors hadnt identified a fault.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He said that Mrs P 
should be entitled to receive a full refund as the goods hadnt been of satisfactory quality 
when supplied.
JLFSL didnt agree and said it didnt accept that it had been shown that the item wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been 
asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that Mrs P would be disappointed when her new cooker didnt work out as shed 
expected. I understand shed had her kitchen renovated and no doubt was looking forward 
with a degree of pleasurable anticipation which new items usually bring.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Rather, Im deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mrs Ps complaint. I have to 
take account of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law. As is the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
In summary, in some limited circumstances, Section 75 gives a consumer an equal claim 
against the provider of finance as they would have against the supplier of the goods or 
services about which complaint is brought. It requires there to have been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
The CRA states that in order to conform to contract goods must be of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being what a reasonable person would 
consider to be satisfactory. They must also be fit for purpose.
The CRA contains a presumption that where goods dont conform to contract within six 
months of the date of supply that they didnt do so at that time. This presumption applies 
unless its shown that the goods did conform to contract at that time.
Ive seen various inspection reports relating to this cooker. And Ive also seen a video of the 
cooker in operation. Its fair to say that there is some divergence of opinion in what the 
reports find.
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Looking at the various inspection reports and the videos that were supplied Ive concluded 
than that this cooker didnt perform to the standard required to make it of satisfactory quality. 
Ill explain why.
From an early stage after being supplied with the cooker Mrs P made her dissatisfaction 
known. And it was always put in terms of the item not venting properly. This led to a large 
amount of steam being emitted when the oven door was opened as well as water gathering 
inside the cooker and on the floor adjacent to it.
The videos Ive viewed show that when the oven door was opened a significant amount of 
steam was emitted. Which would be a potential safety hazard. Condensation was seen to 
form within the cooker and a small pool of water had gathered on the floor next to the 
cooker.
Engineers appointed by the supplier and/or manufacturer visited and carried out several 
tests. But despite apparently finding no faults, the thermostat was replaced and other 
adjustments made. 
These findings led to Mrs P obtaining her own report from a business Ill refer to as W.
Although some doubt has been cast upon whether W can be considered an expert witness 
I dont think thats an issue here. W is a registered Gas Safe engineer and has provided a 
report in which certain factual statements and observations have been recorded. Hes also 
supplied evidence of attendance at a training course in respect of the relevant product 
range. So I think hes qualified to comment on these circumstances.
By and large his report concentrated on what he observed in terms of steam not emitting 
from the vent pipe  but a lot of steam escaping when the oven door was opened. He also 
provided measurements and identified that the gap in the door seal is 10mm width whereas 
the pipe for the steam to escape is 22mm. Ws report also highlighted the erratic 
temperature control. With temperatures rising once steam had been allowed to escape.
I find that Ws report was expressed in moderate and objective terms. And was plausible in 
the conclusions it reached that the steam was unable to escape from the oven due to the 
restrictions identified.
In considering the various reports of the suppliers engineers I draw the distinction between 
them not finding any faults with the cooker and there not being any to find.Given the totality of information including videos which show substantial amounts of steam 
emitting when the oven door was opened  and which was confirmed by Ws report - I dont 
think JLFSL acted fairly in concluding that the cooker conformed to contract and was of 
satisfactory quality at the time of supply.
On a balance of probabilities I find the cooker wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. 
And that Mrs P should be able to reject it. 
Ill deal briefly with other aspects of the complaint which have been raised by JLFSL in its 
replies to our investigator.
Its been suggested that as the item was subject to a guarantee this also means that Mrs P 
shouldnt be able to reject it as she hasnt suffered a loss. 
Im not aware that the existence of a guarantee has any relevance on whether or not goods 
are of satisfactory quality. The CRA permits the consumer to reject goods that dont conform 
to contract within the first six months after supply if the supplier has been given the 
opportunity to put things right. Here Mrs P complained, engineers visited and applied 
adjustments and a replacement thermostat. But as this seemingly didnt resolve the issues 
Mrs P tried to exercise her right to reject in October 2017. A guarantee or warranty can 
extend statutory rights such as contained in the CRA  but it cant restrict those rights.
JLFSL only financed part of the purchase price, but Section 75 doesnt limit the extent of 
liability on a pro rata basis. So where Section 75 applies, any business which supplied 
relevant credit is potentially liable for the whole amount of the cost of goods.
Ive also considered that as Mrs P was using the goods, whether this should mean she 
should be required to pay for any period of fair use. Mrs P tried to reject the goods as early 
as October 2017. As thats within six months of supply, the CRA wouldnt require any 
deduction to be made had they been collected at that time. Given the nature of the goods it 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect her to go without a cooker for the duration of the complaint. 
As it happens Mrs P decided for herself  after Ws report - to obtain a replacement cooker 
and stop using the disputed goods. Shes provided information that this was in September 
2018.
I shant make any direct deduction for what use she obtained as she sought to reject it within 
the requisite period. If T had agreed to accept this at that time (or JLFSL later)  as I find it 
should have done - then no deduction would have been applied.
Due to the delay between this complaint being made and the final decision, Im aware that 
interest would usually be added to any sum ordered to be refunded. Here that would result in 
Mrs P having had use of the cooker for a year or more and obtaining a full refund. Whilst 
thats largely due to T and JLFSL refusing her rejection, it would also mean she would 
probably end up in a better financial position than if the item hadnt been purchased. 
In these circumstances I think the fairest resolution is not to award additional interest. This 
will have the practical effect of offsetting any deduction which might have been made for fair 
use. 
In summary, I find that JLFSL should have accepted that the goods supplied to Mrs P 
werent of satisfactory quality. And that she was entitled to reject them and obtain a full 
refund. Accordingly, Im upholding her complaint.
Putting things rightJLFSL should now take the following action:
1. Refund the cost of Mrs Ps purchase of this cooker, £5,195;
2. Arrange for the item to be collected at no cost to Mrs P.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im upholding this complaint.
I require John Lewis Financial Services Limited to take the action Ive stipulated in the 
preceding paragraph.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman