DRN-3585960
The complaint
Mr H complains that Capquest Debt Recovery Limited incorrectly placed a default on his 
credit file. Mr H says this had a negative impact on his finances and ability to rent a property. 
What happened
In 2012, Capquest bought a debt in Mr Hs name from a business I will refer to as L. In 
2017, Capquest sent Mr H a notice of default.
Mr H complained to Capquest in 2021. He said that L had already defaulted his account 
several years before. 
Capquest contacted L and it confirmed that Mr Hs account had already been defaulted. 
Capquest didnt think it had done anything wrong as when it bought the debt, it had done so 
on the understanding the account was live. As no payments had been received since 2014, 
Capquest said it wasnt wrong to have sent a default notice to Mr H. 
Capquest sent Mr H £100 to apologise for not telling him it was progressing his 
representatives GDPR request. Capquest confirmed that it had removed the default from his 
credit file and closed his account due to the debt being statute barred.
Mr H thought Capquest should pay him more compensation as hed involved a solicitor and 
had trouble trying to re-mortgage.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Hs complaint be upheld. He didnt think 
Capquest knew about the original default when it bought the debt. And the investigator was 
satisfied that Capquest responded reasonably once Mr H made it aware of the situation.
Mr H replied to say that he didnt make any payments to Capquest up to 2014 so didnt 
understand why it had placed a default on his credit file in 2017. Mr H said the default was 
still registered with credit reference agencies. 
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H 
and Capquest on 21 June 2022. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me.
When I first started to look at this complaint, it appeared that Capquest had bought the debt 
and then sat on it for several years before applying a default in 2017. I didnt think this 
seemed fair so I asked Capquest what steps it had taken to pursue the debt. I also asked  
Mr H for evidence of the impact the second default had on him.
Im grateful to Mr H and Capquest for providing more information. Although the outcome of 
his complaint hasnt changed, I think its only fair to make it clear to Mr H why I dont intend 
upholding it. 
Capquests records indicate that in 2012 it was in contact with B, a business acting on 
behalf of Mr H. In October 2012, Capquest sent B details of the outstanding balance on     
Mr Hs account together with a copy of the loan agreement.
Between June 2012 and May 2014, Capquest received several small payments against the 
outstanding debt. And in June 2013, B made a nominal monthly repayment offer to 
Capquest on behalf of Mr H. So, I cant say, as I originally thought might be the case, that 
Capquest failed to take any action to recover the debt after buying it from L. 
Capquests records indicate that it sent Mr H an annual statement in May 2015. After 
Capquest stopped receiving any payments, it wrote to Mr H in August 2017, before sending 
him a notice of default in September 2017. I appreciate Mr H might not recall receiving the 
letters  possibly because hed moved address by this time. But I cant find that Capquest 
didnt send them.
When Mr H complained to this service, he was unhappy that Capquest had defaulted his 
account for a second time. I can understand Mr Hs frustration, particularly as the original 
default wouldve come off his credit file by the end of 2016. But to uphold Mr Hs complaint, 
Id have to find that Capquest knew or shouldve known about the original default.
Capquest says it bought the debt from L as part of a mixed live portfolio so didnt have any 
reason to think Mr Hs account had already been defaulted. It has given us an account 
summary with notes of the sale by L and here isnt any mention of the 2010 default. This 
makes it hard for me to find that Capquest had prior knowledge of the default. 
After it bought the debt, Mr H seemed to engage with Capquest  at least through B  so I 
cant say that Capquest was made aware of any problems that mightve prompted it to carry 
out additional checks. 
Mr H has sent us a copy of an email that he received from a credit reference agency (CRA) 
in response to his query about the default reported by Capquest. It looks like it might have 
been sent earlier in 2021. The CRA says that it raised a dispute with Capquest which replied 
to say that its records show Mr Hs account defaulted in October 2017. I know that Mr H 
thinks this query shouldve prompted Capquest to investigate further but without knowing 
exactly what the CRA told Capquest, its hard to say that Capquest shouldve acted sooner. 
Particularly as I dont have evidence to suggest that Mr H raised his concerns with Capquest 
at the same time as he raised the dispute with the CRA.
I fully understand Mr Hs concerns that the second default affected his creditworthiness but I 
dont find that Capquest made a mistake when it applied the default in 2017. Once Mr H 
made Capquest aware that L had already defaulted his account, Capquest raised a query 
with L. Im satisfied that Capquest acted reasonably and took the appropriate steps to 
resolve things for Mr H. 
Overall, I dont consider that Capquest acted unreasonably, so I wont be asking it to 
compensate Mr H. I appreciate this is likely to come as a disappointment.
I can see that since Mr H brought his original complaint to this service, his representative
has raised further concerns. These include an alleged data breach involving an email 
address. As these concerns didnt form part of Mr Hs original complaint to Capquest, I 
havent considered them as part of my decision.Mr H was also concerned that the 2017 default remained on his credit file some months after
Capquest asked for it to be removed. The evidence that Capquest provided indicates that it
raised the necessary requests to change Mr Hs credit file in May 2021. If Mr H can still see
the 2017 default on his credit file, I think Capquest should be given the opportunity to 
investigate this further. If after doing that, Mr H is unhappy with the outcome, he can always 
come back to this service.
Finally, Mr Hs representative referred to serious irregularities regarding the assignment of 
the debt from L to Capquest. I asked Capquest for copies of the notices of assignment. Its 
now given this service a copy of the notice of assignment that L sent to Mr H and a copy of 
the notice that Capquest sent to B. Im satisfied that the notices were enough to show Mr H 
that Capquest owned the debt and that it was reasonable to try and collect payment from 
him.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Capquest has treated Mr H unfairly so I wont be requiring it 
to take any action or pay compensation. Im sorry if this comes as a disappointment to Mr H.
Further submissions
Capquest said it had nothing further to add but Mr H made some comments for me to 
consider. Hes surprised that Capquest bought the debt without knowing whether it was live 
or had already been defaulted. 
Mr H doesnt know why Capquest waited until October 2017 to default the account after it 
hadnt received any payments since 2014. Mr H is also surprised that L continued to pay 
anything to Capquest as hed not had any dealings with L since 2012.
Mr H says that his complaint was less about money and more about Capquest and the 
incorrect information held on his credit file. Hes upset that his credit worthiness has been 
impacted by the second default. Mr H thinks the debt shouldve become statute barred in 
2018 but remained on his credit file due to the sale from L to Capquest. And because L 
didnt mention the default and Capquest didnt ask.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully appreciate the sense of unfairness that Mr H feels. I agree that as L had already 
defaulted the account in 2010, the default shouldnt have reappeared on his credit file years 
later. However, my decision looks at the actions of Capquest not L. For all the reasons Ive 
outlined in my provisional decision, I dont think it was unreasonable of Capquest not to 
know that the debt had already been defaulted by L. 
I accept that there was an extended period between the time that Capquest stopped 
receiving payments and then applying the default. But Capquest has given this service 
evidence that it wrote to Mr H in August 2017 before sending the default notice in September 
2017. So, I cant find that Capquest didnt give Mr H the opportunity to object to the default 
ahead of time.
Mr H says hes still waiting for Capquest to respond to his GDPR request. As I said in my 
provisional decision, if Mr H remains unhappy with Capquests failure to respond he would 
need to raise a new complaint.Im grateful to Mr H for the points that hes raised but my decision remains the same as I 
outlined in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman