DRN-4020034
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about a claim he made on his RAC Insurance Limited legal expenses 
insurance policy.
Mr B says his claim was declined unfairly and that he hasnt been able to get any help from 
the legal advice helpline to pursue the matter himself.
What happened
Mr B made a claim on his RAC legal expenses insurance policy for cover to pursue a claim 
for personal injury.
RAC appointed a panel firm of Solicitors to consider the claim. A representative from that 
firm told Mr B that his claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success and wasnt 
proportionate to pursue. Because of this, RAC declined to cover the claim. Mr B wants to 
litigate the claim himself but says he hasnt gotten any help from RACs legal advice helpline 
about how to draft the papers he needs to file at Court. 
Mr B also says he wasnt happy with the panel firm RAC instructed as hed had a negative 
experience with them in the past. In addition, he says he was told he could get cover for his 
own choice of Solicitors now that proceedings are necessary, but RAC have declined to 
cover this.
RAC says they got advice from a panel firm of Solicitors setting out Mr Bs claim had no 
reasonable prospects of success and wasnt proportionate to pursue. They say they were 
entitled to rely on this advice when turning down the claim. They also say their legal helpline 
wouldnt extend to providing advice on how to draft a claim because this would require 
detailed advice, which would take into account all the evidence in the claim- and thats not a 
service the helpline provides.
Our investigator considered Mr Bs complaint. She asked RAC for confirmation that the 
person who provided the advice was suitably qualified, or if not, that they worked under the 
supervision of a suitably qualified legal professional. The advice RAC initially provided was 
from a legal advisor- but it appeared that they were not suitably qualified. As such RAC 
agreed to obtain the advice of a Senior Solicitor who endorsed the advice of the legal 
advisor. Following this, the investigator agreed RAC had done what they needed to do. 
Mr B hasnt objected to the investigators view, but RAC has. They say that although they 
obtained the view of Senior Solicitor in this case, this wasnt necessary and that its up to 
their panel firm to decide who they wanted to appoint to deal with claims of this nature. They 
say that a trained representative of a law firm with adequate supervision provisions in place 
amounts to being suitable to advise on cases such as Mr Bs. They also say its up to the 
panel firm to decide who they consider to be suitably qualified and that this issue can only be 
challenged with reference to the Legal Ombudsman. Because of this they feel that it falls out 
of this Services remit. 
Overall RAC feel that they dont think its necessary for a qualified Solicitor to supervise or 
advise on every claim and that this isnt the standard they wish to set. Because of this the 
matter has been passed to me to determine.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The starting point is the policy terms. They say:
Section A - Uninsured Loss Recovery
What is covered
If you are involved in an accident or road traffic collision in the UK or Europe during the 
policy period for which you are not at fault, and you have uninsured losses, for example your 
motor insurance excess, that you need to recover, we will:
1. Provide you with help and advice (under the Telephone Legal Helpline, Section E). You 
must call our helpline straight away, as we will not be able to cover legal costs that have not 
been agreed by us first:
2. Put you in touch with our legal representative, who will assess your claim: and
3. If our legal representative, in their reasonable opinion, agrees your claim has a 51% or 
greater chance of succeeding, we will cover you for legal costs, up to a maximum of 
£100,000 per claim.
Legal representative is defined as the solicitors or other qualified experts appointed by us 
to act for you.
Like virtually all other before the event insurance policies, Mr Bs policy requires there to be 
reasonable prospects of success. That would extend to situations where the value of the 
claim outweighs the costs of pursuing it. We dont think this is unfair. Court action can be 
expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt want to bear the cost if advised it is unlikely 
to succeed or that the amount they might recover would be less than the cost of the action 
itself. We wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurance to fund claims in these circumstances 
either.
Where an insurer has declined funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate the merits of 
the underlying claim. Instead, and as the investigator explained, we look at whether the 
insurer has acted fairly. So long as they have got advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we 
wont generally question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong 
or based on factual mistakes. When this complaint was brought to us, it wasnt clear whether 
RAC did this and on closer examination it seems that the advice was provided by a 
representative of the firm but that the person in question was not suitably qualified or 
supervised by someone that was. RAC obtained advice from the panel firm on the issue who 
said:
it is unreasonable to expect that a solicitor would oversee the hundreds of enquiries we 
receive each day. Therefore we have acceptance criteria that fully qualified solicitors have 
composed and legal advisors are then trained to assess claims based on these parameters. 
They then do pre-assessments of enquiries and render a decision. If theyre ever unsure, 
they can escalate the decision to their senior(s) and sometimes particularly complicated or 
borderline cases will indeed have some input from an actual solicitor, but the majority of 
cases are accepted and/or rejected by trained legal advisors, working from the 
aforementioned criteria.Whilst I appreciate why a panel firm might make a commercial decision to do things in this 
way, that doesnt accord with either RACs policy terms or our general expectations of an 
insurer. The policy terms require Solicitors or other qualified experts to be appointed by 
them. Thats not at odds with our approach in that if an insurer intends to turn down cover, 
like it did in this case, we require them to obtain the opinion of a legal professional who is 
suitably qualified. By that we mean a Barrister, Solicitor or Legal Executive. If an insurer 
intends to rely on the opinion of someone other than this, such as a Trainee Solicitor, 
Paralegal, or legal representative, then wed need to be satisfied that that person is being 
supervised by someone who is suitably qualified. That doesnt mean that theyre using 
criteria composed by suitably qualified professionals- it means that the opinions theyre 
expressing are subject to supervision. This might not accord with the model RACs panel 
firm adopt, but it is an expectation we reasonably require of legal expenses insurers if they 
wish to rely on such opinions to turn down cover. 
RAC feel that this issue can only be challenged with reference to the Legal Ombudsman. 
They might be right if Mr B was challenging the business practices of the panel firm. But 
thats not what hes complaining about to this Service. Rather hes unhappy that RAC turned 
down cover for his claim. In that case, were entitled to look at the veracity of the evidence 
RAC relied on in doing that- to the extent that theyve obtained advice from suitably qualified 
professionals. And if thats not possible wed expect the advice given to be from someone 
who was supervised by a suitably qualified professional.
In this case RAC did obtain advice from a suitably qualified professional. A Solicitor who had 
relevant experience of personal injury law endorsed the opinion given by the previous 
representative. So, I agree theres nothing more for RAC to do. But to be clear, that wasnt 
the case when this complaint was brought to our Service- it was something RAC agreed to 
do after our investigators involvement.  I appreciate that RAC dont want to have to do this 
going forward which is why theyve asked for this complaint to be decided by an 
Ombudsman. I hope Ive set out clearly what this Services expectations are on an insurer 
such that RAC understand the onus on legal expenses insurers more generally when turning 
down cover. Its of note however that each complaint would need to be determined on its 
own individual merits.
I know Mr B hasnt challenged the investigators view but for the sake of completeness I 
agree with the investigator that the legal advice line RAC provides wouldnt extend to helping 
him complete papers to file at Court. Doing so would require specific and detailed knowledge 
of the evidence in Mr Bs case which isnt a service advice lines generally provide. 
Mr B also says he was unhappy about this specific panel firm being instructed. I havent 
seen anything to suggest he asked for another firm to be appointed or expressed his 
dissatisfaction to RAC before the panel firm provided their opinion on his complaint. Had he 
done so I wouldve considered the reasons for his request and RACs actions but as things 
stand, I dont think RAC could be viewed as doing something wrong if they werent aware of 
Mr Bs dissatisfaction in advance of the panel firms appointment. 
Finally, I know Mr B has asked to use his own Solicitor to pursue his claim. Generally, the 
policyholders freedom to choose their own Solicitor arises when proceedings become 
necessary, but its also subject to the remaining policy terms being met. In this case Mr B 
hasnt been able to demonstrate that his claim has reasonable prospects of success and is 
proportionate to pursue. If he can do so by providing an alternative Solicitors opinion, then 
Id expect RAC to reconsider his claim.   
My final decision
Now that RAC Insurance Limited have obtained a legal opinion from a suitably qualified legal professional, theres nothing further for them to do. So, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint 
against them. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman