DRN-3974056
The complaint
Mrs H complains about a life assurance policy she believes should have made a payment to 
her husbands estate. Responsibility for the policy in this case sits with Liverpool Victoria 
Financial Services Limited (LV). 
What happened
This complaint began with Mrs H sending LV the premium receipt book for this policy in early 
2022, following the death of her husband. LV sadly destroyed that book, but have referred to 
a copy of it in their response to this complaint. 
The book apparently showed this was a 15-year endowment policy, taken out by Mrs Hs 
husband in 1961. LV said that meant it would have paid out some time between 1961 and 
1976. That was a problem, as their records could only trace back to 1978. LV couldnt find 
any trace of this policy on their systems.
LV did however pay Mrs H £100 to apologise for not returning the premium receipt book.
Mrs H brought her complaint to us. But our investigator wasnt able to find any further details 
about this policy. He concluded we couldnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint as a result. 
Mrs H asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
The existence of the premium receipt book tells me this policy did exist at one time. But 
whats missing  crucially  is evidence that it continued to exist up to 2022. 
Without that evidence, I find it reasonable that LV havent paid the estate any money under 
the policy. 
I dont see anything unreasonable in LV having no records of the policy ending. It seems 
likely to me that happened in 1976 or earlier, given the 15-year term LV have said is shown 
in the copy of the receipt book. I wouldnt expect LV to have kept records for this long about 
a policy that had ended. 
I appreciate LV have paid Mrs H £100 for the upset caused by destroying the receipt book. 
But my jurisdiction only allows me to look at this as a complaint brought on behalf of the 
estate of Mrs Hs husband. As such, Im not going to give a view on what LV have done to 
put things right for Mrs H personally. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman