DRN-3135090
The complaint
Mr H complains that TSB Bank plc wont allow him to register for online banking and access 
his funds.
What happened
Mr H has two accounts with TSB  a current account and a savings account. On the 
19 April 2012 TSB placed a block on Mr Hs accounts.
In 2019 Mr H attempted to register for online banking to assess his funds  however this
wasnt possible as a result of the block. TSB advised Mr H that hed need to return to the
UK, visit a local branch and provide updated identification and then he may be able to 
access his funds.
Mr H wasnt happy with this recommendation so complained to TSB about them preventing 
him from registering for online banking and accessing his funds.
TSB didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. The bank explained that as Mr H was currently resident
in a country subject to financial sanctions, Sudan, the bank couldnt allow him to access his
funds. Or to register for online banking.
Mr H wasnt happy with TSBs response so complained to our service. Mr H explained that
hed been prevented from registering for online banking, and hed like to close his account
and access his funds.
Our investigator looked into Mr H's complaint but didn't uphold it. In summary they felt, due
to the sanctions imposed on Sudan, that the bank had acted fairly in restricting Mr Hs
access to his account. And Mr H would need to return to the UK to provide identification and
access his funds.
On picking up Mr Hs case I advised TSB that I was thinking of reaching a different outcome.
Overall, I thought that the bank hadnt evidenced how Mr H was covered by the sanctions
Sudan were subject to. And asked whether Mr H could provide identification through any
other means. 
TSB responded to say they needed to see updated Identification from Mr H and confirmation 
of his home address. TSB however explained that even if this identification was provided 
they still couldnt guarantee his funds would be available due to the financial sanctions 
Sudan is subject to.
As both parties were unable to reach an agreement I issued a Provisional Decision, and 
asked Mr H and TSB to respond within 2 weeks. In my Provisional Decision I recommended 
that if Mr H provided TSB with appropriate identification documents the bank should release 
his funds. And pay 8% interest from the date when Mr H requested the funds, plus £100 
compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Mr H accepted my Provisional Decision however he wanted to add that he opened his 
accounts with TSB in 1990 prior to any financial sanctions being imposed.  
TSB partially accepted my decision, advising that they were willing to release Mr Hs funds if 
he provided identification documents. However, they didnt accept theyd delayed the release 
of his funds, and therefore rejected my recommendation for 8% interest plus £100 
compensation. 
As both parties didnt fully accept my Provisional Decision, Ive reconsidered my conclusions 
below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive not changed the conclusion I reached in my Provisional Decision. Ill 
explain why below. 
In my Provisional Decision I said:
From what I've seen so far I don't think TSB have acted fairly here. I understand that TSB
won't allow Mr H access to his funds, including to register for online banking, or transfer
them to Sudan because of the UK Sanctions of Sudan.
However, I'm not convinced TSB have applied the Sanctions regulations fairly here.
The relevant section of the Sanctions guidance for the Sudan states:
1.2 Financial sanctions
Asset freeze and making available provisions
The Regulations impose financial sanctions through a targeted asset freeze on designated
persons and prohibitions on making funds or economic resources available. This involves
the freezing of funds and economic resources (non-monetary assets, such as property or
vehicles) of designated persons and ensuring that funds and economic resources are not
made available to or for the benefit of designated persons, either directly or indirectly.
The guidance is specific in referring to a 'targeted asset freeze on designated persons'.
I've looked at the designated persons list for the Sudan, in which TSB accept Mr H doesnt
feature, and I havent seen any evidence that Mr H is a designated person or is making
funds available for the benefit of designated persons.
I therefore dont think that TSB have acted fairly in placing a block on Mr Hs funds. TSB
have argued that Mr Hs complaint is solely about his lack of access to internet banking  but
Im afraid I dont agree here. I think its clear Mr H is mainly unhappy that he cant access
and withdraw his funds which remain in his two TSB accounts. And registering for online
banking is about Mr H gaining access to his funds.
Ive moved on to consider TSBs request for Mr H to provide up to date identification
documentation. Im satisfied that TSBs request for Mr H to provide up to date identification is
reasonable, to ensure they are dealing with the named account holder, however I do think
the bank could have done more to assist Mr H in helping him to provide the necessary
documents. TSB insisted that Mr H returned to the UK and provided his identification in
branch  and didnt provide him with any alternative options during the pandemic when travelfrom Sudan to the UK was challenging. I think the bank could have done more here to assist
Mr H to provide the necessary documents.
In conclusion, for the reasons Ive outlined, if Mr H is able to provide appropriate
identification documentation I think TSB should allow him access to his funds
I think that Mr H has been caused some inconvenience by TSBs actions, therefore Ill be
recommending a small amount of compensation.
TSB partially agreed with my Provisional Decision  however they responded with a number 
of additional points, Ill address these below. 
The bank accepted that Mr H shouldnt be subject to sanctions restrictions, and instead they 
needed to carry out Know Your Customer checks  including gaining identification 
documents from Mr H. And if Mr H provides identification documents theyll release his funds 
to a nominated account. 
However, the bank also responded with a number of other points. TSB argued that they 
advised Mr H he needed to return to the UK to provide identification documents prior to the 
pandemic in September 2019  and at that time their process was for a customer to visit the 
branch. TSB state that accounts are provided for UK customers  as per the terms and 
conditions of Mr Hs account. However, since the pandemic theyve reviewed their processes 
to allow for documents to be provided via different means. 
Ive considered TSBs position, however I dont agree that the banks done everything Id 
expect them to do in Mr Hs case. I accept that a final response letter was issued in 
September 2019, and at that time TSBs process for identification checks involved asking a 
customer to visit a branch in the UK. However, in the same final response letter TSB 
explained that even if Mr H returned to the UK and provided the relevant identification 
documents they cannot guarantee hell be allowed to access his funds. TSB advised this 
was because on the financial sanctions imposed on Sudan. 
I accept that Mr H hasnt contacted TSB directly to ask for alternative ways to provide 
identification documents, however TSB have been asked on more than one occasion during 
the pandemic whether Mr H can access his funds. And even though I understand TSBs 
process has changed, weve been advised Mr H will need to return to the UK to visit a TSB 
branch. I therefore think that TSB could have advised Mr H much sooner about the different 
options available to him. I also think TSB, as the holders of Mr Hs funds, have a 
responsibility to update him if and when a process changes which would allow him to access 
his funds by different means, in this case by providing his documents online. I think Mr H 
was left in a position where he thought hed need to return to the UK to provide the relevant 
documents, and because of the sanctions TSB were arguing he was subject to, even by 
doing this he may not be able to withdraw his money. 
In conclusion I dont think TSB have acted fairly here, and could have provided Mr H with the 
opportunity to access his funds sooner. And therefore hes been deprived of his funds, and 
been caused a small amount of inconvenience. However, as Ive explained before I think it is 
appropriate for Mr H to provide identification documents to TSB before his funds are 
released  I understand, due to TSBs new process, this can now be completed online.   
Putting things right
If Mr H provides appropriate identification documents to TSB within 8 weeks of the date of 
this decision I direct TSB Bank plc to:Transfer Mr Hs funds to an account of his choice.
Pay 8% interest from the date Mr H attempted to register for online banking to the
date Mr Hs funds are returned.
Pay Mr H £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Any tax lawfully due on the interest may be deducted if needs be, with the bank providing a  
tax deduction certificate to Mr H so he can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Hs complaint, and direct TSB Bank plc to carry out the 
actions listed above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman