DRN-4254297
The complaint
Mrs L and Mr L complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited. They 
arent happy about the way it dealt with a claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs L and Mr L made a claim under their home insurance policy. But LV failed to deal with 
the claim very well and Mrs and Mr L had to endure multiple attempts at repair by LVs 
agents as the repair of the floor was so poorly done.  
When they complained to LV about this it acknowledged its agents failures and appointed a 
new repairer to undertake the repairs to the expected standard which is ongoing. And LV 
offered £300 by way of compensation in acknowledgment of its very poor handling of the 
claim and repairs. But as Mrs L and Mr L werent happy with the level of compensation 
offered they complained to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for them and upheld their complaint. He accepted the 
ongoing claim and disruption had caused a fair degree of stress, annoyance and 
inconvenience to Mrs L and Mr L and thought the level of compensation should be increased 
to £800.
LV accepted the position outlined by the investigator, but Mrs L and Mr L didnt so the matter 
has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed that LVs agents attempts at repairing Mrs L and Mr Ls flooring has been 
inadequate to date. The repair is ongoing and hopefully will be completed to a high standard 
soon. So, the only thing left to focus on is the level of compensation LV should award in an 
attempt to ease the significant stress and inconvenience its poor repairs to date have caused 
Mrs L and Mr L.
I have a lot of sympathy for the position Mrs L and Mr L have found themselves in. The poor 
repair of the floor has left them extremely inconvenienced and it has impacted their own 
health problems and continues to do so. I dont think any amount of compensation would put 
right the difficulties they have faced with this repair over a significant period of time. 
I know Mrs L and Mr L would like a lot more in compensation than the £800 our investigator 
suggested LV increase its offer to, from £300. But this Services awards are relatively 
modest in nature and this is in line with the kind of award I would ordinarily make. I know Mr 
L has broken this down to a daily figure for the whole time he feels he has been 
inconvenienced for and outlined that when this is broken down to a daily rate that £800 is 
low. 
However, there is always a fair degree of inconvenience caused when dealing with 
insurance claims like this one, although the additional repairs and inconvenience shouldnt 
have had to be endured. And all this has affected Mrs L and Mr L during a period of poor 
health so obviously things have been made worse. 
While I accept all of this and have every sympathy with the stress all this has caused Mrs L 
and Mr L I think £800 is fair in the circumstances. Even if I was to increase this it would be 
by a relatively small margin and I know Mrs L and Mr L feel they should get thousands more 
by way of compensation, but I dont feel that would be fair on the business either. And I must 
highlight that we are not here to punish businesses but look to put things right. And an 
increase in compensation to £800, from £300, feels fair in the circumstances in 
acknowledgement of the upheaval caused, especially as Mrs L is vulnerable and faced 
serious medical difficulties. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im upholding this complaint. I require Liverpool 
Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay £800 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman