DRN-3909177
The complaint
Miss C complains that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) lent her an unaffordable loan. She also 
says it wasnt sympathetic to her when she got into financial difficulties.
What happened
L2G lent Miss C a loan in January 2021, the loan amount was £300, repayable in 18 monthly 
instalments of £68.57. The total repayable is £1,234.26. Miss C encountered financial 
difficulties repaying the loan and at the time the complaint came to this service, there was a 
balance outstanding.
When Miss C complained to L2G it didnt uphold her complaint, it said it carried out sufficient 
checks which showed Miss C could afford the loan repayments. It considered her point 
about how she was treated in financial difficulties and apologised for how the situation made 
Miss C feel and explained that it requested a completed income and expenditure form but as 
Miss C didnt complete and return the form, it wasnt able to agree a repayment plan.
While it didnt accept that it had done anything wrong, L2G offered to write off the 
outstanding balance on Miss Cs loan and close her account. Miss C didnt accept the offer 
and referred her complaint to this service where it was looked at by one of our adjudicators.
Our adjudicator thought L2G should have done more before lending to Miss C and had it 
done that then it would have seen she couldnt afford the loan and not lent. But she thought 
L2G was sympathetic to Miss C when she had financial difficulties.
L2G didnt agree it had lent when it shouldnt have, it says its checks showed Miss C was 
managing her credit well and there was no cause for it to take its checks further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The lending decision
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
L2G needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss C could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.  
L2G has shown that before lending, it asked Miss C about her monthly income and 
expenses, it also searched her credit file. L2G says it verified her income using a verification 
tool and found that Miss Cs income was around £1,379.70. It also says after extensively 
reviewing her application, worked out her living costs to be £1,166, it says based on those 
calculations Miss C could afford the monthly repayment of £68.57 for the loan.
However, looking at the credit search, the results showed Miss C was close to the limit on all 
her credit card accounts, was significantly using her overdraft facility and had at least one 
other loan she was repaying. So even though the search showed Miss C was up to date with 
her repayments, it also showed she was using a lot of credit.
Taking the results of the credit search along with the cost of this loan, Miss C was due to 
repay more than four times the loan amount, I think it would have been reasonable for L2G 
to take further steps to understand Miss Cs finances.
Miss C has provided copies of her bank statements from around the time of the loan. Ive 
used these to understand her circumstances when L2G lent to her. From what I can see, 
Miss C was reliant on credit. The statements showed she was in her overdraft for most of the 
three-month period and only when into credit for a few days after her salary had been paid 
and the back into her overdraft. The statement also shows she was paying debt collectors 
for at least five accounts.
Overall, Miss C wasnt in a position to sustainably repay this loan without the need to borrow 
further and had L2G carried out sufficient checks, it would have seen that, and as 
responsible lender wont have lent to Miss C in those circumstances.
Miss Cs financial difficulties
Ive looked at what happened with Miss C and I can see she told L2G about her health 
condition and it didnt respond for a little over a week. When it did respond, it asked 
Miss C to complete an income and expenses form so it could consider her circumstances. 
Miss C didnt provide this and asked for more time as she was hospitalised. L2G responded 
to say it would put her account on hold for seven days, giving her the opportunity to come 
back to it.
Miss C didnt complete the form and so she has continued to receive correspondence about 
her arrears, even though Miss C had requested to be emailed due to her health and 
treatment.
L2G could have communicated with Miss C by email as requested and possibly responded 
to her request sooner but Im also mindful that once L2G responded, Miss C didnt provide 
the information for it to consider reduced payments or a payment plan. Also, Miss C wanted 
an apology and I can see L2G offered an apology in its final response letter. So, while L2G 
could have done better, Im satisfied it took steps to put things right for Miss C and so I wont 
be asking it to do anymore on this issue.
Putting things right
L2G lent the loan Miss C when it shouldnt have, and it needs to put things right. To put 
things right, L2G should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges added to the loan
Treat all payments Miss C has made as payments towards the capital loan amount of 
£300.
If there are overpayments above the capital, add 8% simple interest on those 
overpayments from the date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement.
If theres still an outstanding balance, L2G should agree a suitable repayment plan 
with Miss C.remove any negative information about the loan from Miss Cs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give 
Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss Cs complaint in part and direct Loans 2 Go 
Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman