DRN-3619023
The complaint
Miss Os complaint is about her unemployment insurance policy with Ageas Insurance 
Limited.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I understand Miss O became unemployed in late March 2020 because the start date 
for her new job was delayed. So, she made a claim under her unemployment policy 
with Ageas on 11 May 2020. Miss O started working again on 8 June 2020.
Ageas didnt send Miss O the claim forms until August 2020. Miss O asked Ageas for 
help in filling out the forms in October 2020. She, and her family members, chased 
Ageas for an update on the claim in November and December 2020.
Miss Os family members continued to chase Ageas about the claim. In June 2021 
Ageas said that it would now review the information Miss O had sent about the claim 
in May 2021. But following this, Ageas incorrectly closed the claim in 
November 2021.
Its clear that there have been several instances where Ageas didnt take action to 
progress Miss Os claim until she or a family member chased this. I accept this 
wouldve been frustrating for Miss O. But Im also mindful that during most of the 
claim process, Miss O was working again. So, even if she has a valid claim, Miss O 
wasnt without an income due to delays caused by Ageas for any significant period of 
time.
For clarity, as this complaint is about Miss Os policy with Ageas, I can only consider 
any impact of Ageas mistakes had on Miss O  rather than on her family members.
Ageas has now offered £500 to compensate Miss O for the distress and 
inconvenience caused due to the delays and poor service during the claim process. It 
has also said it will consider the claim. I think this is a fair and reasonable resolution 
to this complaint.
Putting things right
Ageas should pay Miss O a total of £500 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. Ageas can deduct any amount it has already paid Miss O in relation to this 
complaint from this payment.
Ageas must pay this compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Miss O 
accepts this final decision, and if it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of this final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Ageas should also now consider Miss Os claim and get in touch with her if theres any 
information missing for it to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Os complaint, and I direct Ageas Insurance Limited to 
put things right in the way that Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman