DRN-3171157
The complaint
Mr C has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) unfairly declined a claim under his 
home insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr C contacted AXA when he found out there was a leak from the mains water pipe to his 
home. AXA declined to deal with the claim because it said Mr C didnt have accidental 
damage cover as part of his policy.
When Mr C complained, AXA said the policy didnt offer cover for accidental damage to 
underground services as standard and it hadnt been selected when Mr C took out the 
policy. It said Mr C didnt have the correct level of cover, so the claim was declined.
So, Mr C complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said it was 
unusual for a policy not to include accidental damage cover for underground pipes and 
drains as standard. Had this been appropriately highlighted to Mr C, she said it was likely he 
would have taken out a different policy. She said AXA should deal with the claim as if the 
cover was included in Mr Cs policy. She said AXA should pay the cost of any repairs Mr C 
had already carried out and add interest to that amount.
As AXA didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr Cs policy didnt include cover for accidental damage to underground services. Im aware 
that AXA has said it doesnt think this type of cover is normally included as standard. 
However, I agree with our investigator that this would be considered as standard in home 
insurance policies. 
AXA had provided information to show what Mr C would have seen when he took out the 
policy. This included information that showed that cover for accidental damage to the 
buildings and contents was an optional extra. Mr C was also asked a question about whether 
Mr C wanted reassurance about the structure of his home, including pipes, to which he had 
to answer yes or no.
But, in my view, what AXA didnt do enough to highlight was that accidental damage to 
underground services was normally included as standard cover in policies but was only an 
optional extra in the AXA policy. In other words, that Mr C was getting a lower level of cover 
than is standard in most policies. Based on what Mr C has said, had this been highlighted to 
him, I think it is likely he would have taken out a policy elsewhere that included this cover. As 
a result, UKIs failure to properly highlight this restriction has caused him to lose out.
So, I think AXA needs to put Mr C back into the position he would have been had this cover 
been included. This means that it should deal with the claim as if Mr C had cover for 
accidental damage to underground services under the policy. As Mr C has already had the 
repairs carried out, AXA should pay the cost of the repair and pay interest on that amount.
  
Putting things right
AXA must pay the cost of the repair and pay interest on that amount.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require 
AXA Insurance UK Plc:
To pay Mr C the cost of repair as if he had cover for accidental damage to underground 
services, subject to him providing suitable evidence of the repair carried out.
To pay 8% simple interest on that amount from the date of loss to the date of settlement.
If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers its required by HMRC to take off income tax from the 
interest it has paid, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if 
appropriate.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman