DRN-4273719
The complaint
Miss M complains about how Haven Insurance Company Limited settled her commercial 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss M had a commercial motor insurance policy for her vehicle. In October 2022 she made 
a claim following an accident.
Haven accepted her claim and declared the vehicle a total loss. After reviewing the market 
value of the vehicle it offered a settlement of £7,458.50, less the policy excess. 
Miss M wasnt happy with this amount as she said she hadnt long bought the vehicle for 
around £10,000 more than the offer. She initially asked for the vehicle to be returned but 
Haven said it had already sold it at auction. 
Miss M made a complaint. Haven didnt uphold the complaint so she brought it to this 
service. 
After the complaint came to this service Haven agreed to increase the settlement offered to 
£9,148.50, less the applicable policy dedications. Our investigator thought this was a fair 
offer but thought it should also pay VAT on top of the amount, as Miss M would have to pay 
that. He also didnt think Haven had acted fairly by selling the car before the settlement was 
agreed and recommend it pay £500 compensation to apologise for this. 
Haven accepted our investigators outcome, however Miss M didnt. She provided adverts to 
show similar vehicles at a much higher price. And she said Haven had sold the vehicle at 
auction for a similar price to the settlement and that was with the damage following the 
accident. So this shows the valuation wasnt correct. She asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt the role of this service to say what the market value of a vehicle is. But instead we 
look at the steps taken by a business to determine if theyve acted fairly and reasonably 
when determining the claim settlement.
In order to calculate the market value, Haven has considered valuations provided by trade 
guides. This service considers these to generally be the most reliable for these calculations 
as they are based on the amount vehicles have been sold for and take into account the 
specific car make and model, mileage and age. As well as the condition of the car before the 
accident. 
Here, I can see that the trade guides range from values of £6,624 up to £9,395. As Havens 
revised offer is at the top of that range, I think its offered a fair settlement in the 
circumstances. 
I have also considered the evidence Miss M has provided including the adverts and invoice 
from the sale. However this doesnt persuade me that the offer is unfair. It is of note that 
while the vehicle is registered as a certain model, it appears to have been modified to look 
like a different premium model. But these modifications havent been declared on the policy 
with Haven, so arent covered by the insurance. And as the vehicle insured on the policy is 
the model it is registered as, the value of that model (without the modifications) is what it is 
insured and what Haven is obliged to pay for. The policy says in the result of a total loss it 
will pay the market value of the vehicle. That means the vehicle registered on the policy 
without taking into account the modifications. And the trade guides Ive looked at are for 
prices of the model insured, therefore better reflecting Havens liability than the adverts.
Based on this, Im persuaded Havens valuation of £9,148.50 is a fair one to base the 
settlement on in the circumstances.
Further, Miss M has said that she isnt VAT registered. Therefore she will need to pay VAT 
on a new vehicle and wont be able to claim this back through HMRC. As Havens original 
settlement didnt include VAT, and Miss M will need to pay this on a new vehicle, I agree 
with our investigator it should increase the offer to include it. And as Miss M will have been 
without the additional funds, it should pay 8% interest on any amount paid in addition to the 
original settlement from the date of the first payment until the date the full payment is made.
Miss M has also complained that Haven sold her vehicle at auction before the settlement 
was agreed. I would have expected Haven to wait until the settlement had been accepted 
before taking action to sell the car. Further, Haven has been able to provide no evidence to 
show what it based its decision to write off the vehicle on. And as it sold at around the 
market value at auction, it seems likely that it could have been repaired. As it would be 
unlikely to fetch that amount if it wasnt. 
Based on this, I think Haven has caused Miss M some distress and inconvenience that could 
have been avoided by declaring her vehicle a total loss and selling it prematurely.  Therefore 
I agree with our investigator that it should pay her £500 compensation to apologise for this. 
I understand Miss M believes she could have secured a sale at a higher price if shed had 
the vehicle returned to her, so Haven should pay more money to make up for this loss. 
However, for the reasons Ive stated above, Haven is only required to pay the market value 
of the vehicle under the policy and its done enough to show its done this. So I think 
compensation is the fairest way to make up for the poor service here. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Miss Ms complaint and direct Haven Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay Miss M full settlement of £9,148.50 plus VAT, less an applicable deductions. 
Pay 8% simple interest on top of any additional amount paid since the first 
settlement, from the date of the first settlement until the final payment is made.
Pay £500 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman