DRN-2821604
complaint
Mr T and Ms T say that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr T and Ms T took out an MPPI policy alongside a mortgage in 1991. They paid a monthly 
amount for the policy. The policy only covered Mr T, but was linked to a joint mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr T and Ms T disagreed with this, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr T and Ms Ts case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr T and Ms Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr T and Ms T were sold their MPPI policy 30 years ago  so understandably there isnt any 
paperwork available from the time. But this isnt unusual  and businesses arent required to 
keep records indefinitely.
Because of this, I dont have enough to say that Nationwide didnt make it clear to Mr T and 
Ms T that the MPPI was an optional product. So, Im unable to say that they werent given a 
choice in taking out the MPPI policy.
Mr T has said that due to this, Nationwide cant show that they were given a choice  and 
that it also cant show that a full discussion of the policy took place. He also says that 
Nationwide cant show that they didnt use fear tactics in order to sell the policy to them. He 
says that the benefit of doubt should be given to the consumer  not the business.
But given that theres nothing to show that Mr T and Ms T werent given a choice, and Mr T 
hasnt suggested that Nationwide pressured them in to taking out the policy, I cant say that 
this is the case either. And the role of this service is impartial  so I cant favour one side 
over the other without a reason to do so. 
I understand that this is frustrating for Mr T and Ms T  but I cant uphold their complaint for 
this reason.
Nationwide didnt recommend the MPPI to Mr T and Ms T, so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for them  but it did have to provide them with information for them to decide if they 
thought it was right for them. 
Its possible that some of the information Nationwide gave Mr T and Ms T about the MPPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Mr T, as the one who was covered by the policy, 
doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover  and 
based on what I know about their circumstances it looks like the policy couldve been useful 
to them. So, I dont think better information wouldve stopped them buying it. 
Mr T and Ms T say that they were in secure employment, but that even if they were made 
redundant, they couldve found another job  so they didnt need the cover. And that they 
also had savings, and parents that couldve helped them if needed. And as the policy only 
paid out for 12 months, it was worthless to them.
But the policy is designed to pay out in the event of unforeseen circumstances, and while I 
dont doubt that Mr T and Ms T believe that they would have been able to secure 
employment, this isnt always guaranteed  and the MPPI couldve provided security over 
their home, while protecting savings for other expenses, while also preventing the need to 
rely on parents whose circumstances could also change.
I should also say that the MPPI provided longer cover than the adjudicator thought  up to 
24 months for both unemployment and sickness claims  although even if the cover had 
been for 12 months as Mr T has stated, I still feel it wouldve provided enough cover for them 
to potentially have found it useful.
Ive taken into account all of Mr T and Ms Ts comments, but these points dont change my 
conclusion. And I dont uphold this complaint.
other considerations
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved commission on PPI policies (Plevin v 
Paragon Personal Finance) and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) introduced new rules 
and guidelines for businesses to follow  which meant that sometimes a business would 
need to refund consumers some of the commission they paid on certain PPI policies.
But these rules only apply to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007  or that 
were still running on 6 April 2008. These dates dont apply to Mr T and Ms Ts credit 
agreement (their mortgage)  so these rules dont apply. And so Nationwide doesnt need to 
refund any commission it made on their MPPI policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 August 2021.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman