DRN-3054408
The complaint
A is a limited company. A complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) hasnt 
offered a fair amount to settle a claim on its commercial insurance policy.
A is represented by one if its directors, Mrs A.
What happened
The insured commercial unit was being let. Due to problems with the tenant, Mrs A made a 
claim under the legal expenses section of As commercial insurance policy. RSA declined 
the claim, and this service has previously considered a complaint about that matter.
Mrs A went on to make a claim under the property damage section of the policy. This 
covers buildings, landlord contents, and rent. 
Mrs A accepted £11,161 for the building damage and £133 for locksmith costs. However, 
she wanted the contents settlement and the loss of rent settlement to be increased; the 
excess to be waived; legal fees to be considered; and compensation for delays.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt think it should be upheld. 
Because Mrs A disagreed with some of our investigators conclusions, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill set out my findings under the following five headings: loss of rent; contents; legal fees; 
excess, recovery, and claims history; and compensation.
Loss of rent
The policy covers loss of rent as a result of damage caused by malicious persons which: 
hinders or prevents the use of the Buildings or access to them.
As I understand it, RSA has offered to cover loss of rent for a three-month period, from when 
it says the property damage claim was made in October 2020. The three-month period was 
up to the estimated repair completion date, i.e. when the unit could be re-let. However, 
Mrs A is of the view that the claim was notified to RSA in March 2020, when the legal 
expenses claim was made. She would like loss of rent to be paid from March 2020.
I can understand Mrs As view that the claim was notified to RSA in March 2020. But Im not 
persuaded that matters here. Ill explain why.
Mrs A says the tenant left in May 2020. But on the other hand, she says she couldnt legally 
enter the property until October 2020. Mrs A says the tenant still had keys, they werent 
allowing access, and A couldnt legally evict. Mrs A says she was only able to enter the 
building once it had been confirmed as abandoned. 
Based on what Mrs A says, I consider it reasonable to conclude the property was still in the 
tenants possession until October 2020. The policy doesnt cover non-payment of rent by 
an occupying tenant.
The policy covers malicious damage, and the lost rent whilst the property isnt in a condition 
to be let due to that damage. So, RSA is responsible for covering the malicious damage 
repairs, and the rent whilst the malicious damage prevents the property being let.
Even if I were to accept the claim was made in March 2020, and/or the tenant didnt return 
after May 2020; it wasnt the damage that prevented the use of, or access to the property, 
between March and October 2020. It was the non-paying tenant denying access. I cant 
reasonably hold RSA responsible for lost rent, during the time it took A to legally regain 
possession.
To be clear, even if RSA had registered the property damage claim in March 2020, Im not 
persuaded it could have assessed the claim until A had gained access. Once access was 
gained by A, the damage then prevented the property being re-let. So, its from this point 
that loss of rent is covered, for a period to allow the repairs to be completed.
I understand the repairs were to be completed in January 2021. So, I consider the loss of 
rent settlement offer, covering October 2020 to January 2021, to be in-line with the policy 
terms.
I note that Mrs A now says the works werent finished until March 2021. However, she made 
no mention of a later completion date in an email to RSA, in March 2021. She simply noted 
the loss of rent payment was due until the agreed date in January 2021, but she thought it 
should cover the quarterly period.
I havent seen anything that explains why the works took longer than previously agreed. Ive 
also not seen anything that leads me to believe RSA needs to cover the rent in three-month 
blocks. I accept the rent may have been paid quarterly under the rental agreement that was 
in place with the departed tenant, but RSA only needs to cover the rent whilst the property 
couldnt be re-let due to the malicious damage. 
So, for the above reasons, I cant reasonably direct RSA to increase its settlement offer for 
the loss of rent.
contents
The contents cover is limited to £5,000. Therefore, Im satisfied RSA doesnt need to pay 
above this amount. I acknowledge that Mrs A has already accepted this point.
During the claim, Mrs A queried whether blinds and carpets are contents. She thought the 
items should be considered under the buildings cover. RSA explained why it considered 
these items to be contents, and its explanation is in-line with our approach.Legal fees
Its my understanding that, after the legal expenses claim was declined by RSA, A incurred 
£623 legal fees in its efforts to gain access to the property. Theres no cover for such fees 
under the property damage section, which is the cover Im considering here. So, I cant 
reasonably direct RSA to pay these costs.
Excess, recovery, and claims history
Im satisfied the excess is payable in the event of a claim; it forms part of the terms that were 
agreed to when the policy was taken out. Mrs A has already accepted the excess is payable. 
However, she says RSA needs to recover costs from the tenant, and the claim shouldnt be 
reflected on her (or As) insurance record.
Whether RSA attempts to recover costs from the third party or not, is a commercial decision 
for RSA. Irrespective of the damage being caused by a third party or costs being recovered, 
a claim has been made. As such, RSA is entitled to record the claim on the relevant 
databases. 
Compensation
Mrs A is of the view that compensation should be paid for the delay in considering a claim 
under the property damage section. 
However, even if I were to accept that RSA ought reasonably to have registered a property 
damage claim when Mrs A tried to make a claim under the legal expenses section, Im not 
persuaded thats delayed the repairs or the property being re-let. As noted above, Mrs A 
didnt gain access to the property until October 2020, so the malicious damage couldnt 
have been considered until that time anyway.
I havent seen any unreasonable delays from October 2020 onwards. Although RSA offered 
Mrs A £200 compensation due to some oversights during the settlement discussions, in my 
view, A cant reasonably be said to have been inconvenienced by these issues, given they 
were put right quickly. I havent seen that RSA caused A inconvenience beyond what is 
reasonably to be expected for a claim of this nature.
I accept the settlement offer for the building repairs was increased after discussions, but the 
unit was underinsured, and I dont consider RSA treated A unfairly in the first instance. RSA 
remained open to changing its calculations and engaged with Mrs A about this. Ultimately, 
the discussions were a consequence of As declared value of the property.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs A, but for the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or reject my 
decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman