DRN-4402500
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy a claim made under his agricultural vehicle insurance has been declined by 
West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay).
What happened
Mr Ms tractor is insured under an agricultural vehicle insurance policy underwritten by 
West Bay.
The wheel came off Mr Ms tractor whilst being driven, which resulted in damage being 
caused to the tractor. Mr M made a claim for the cost of repairs to West Bay.
West Bay appointed an engineer to carry out an inspection and they subsequently declined 
the claim. They said the wheel had come off due to wear and tear, and there was no cover 
when the vehicle was being used in a unroadworthy condition.
Mr M brought a complaint about West Bays claim decision to this service. This service didnt 
uphold the complaint. The investigator was persuaded by West Bays engineers 
conclusions, and she also said there were no other expert reports which countered those 
conclusions.
Mr M subsequently obtained his own engineer report and sent this to West Bay for 
consideration. However, West Bays claim decision remained the same. So, Mr M referred a 
new complaint to this service to consider.
One of our investigators looked into things but she didnt uphold the complaint. She wasnt 
persuaded Mr Ms own expert report demonstrated that West Bays conclusions or claim 
decision were incorrect.
Mr M didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I appreciate itll come as a disappointment to Mr M, Ive reached the 
same outcome as our investigator.
West Bays engineer concluded that the wheel came loose and caused the tractor to 
collapse as a result of:
The most likely cause of the incident is the near side rear wheel studs have not been 
correctly tightened.
Only two studs were available, all others were lost at the time of the incident.
I noted evidence of the wheel centre confirming movement in the wheel due to the 
loose studs.
West Bay concluded that the wheel studs had become loose over time due to wear and tear, 
and that the tractor was being used in an unroadworthy condition when the damage 
occurred. As a result, West Bay relied on the following policy exclusions to decline the claim:
This section of your insurance does not cover the following.

3 Wear and Tear, mechanical, electrical, electronic, computer failures, breakdown or 
breakages.
And:
Your insurance does not cover the following.
1. Any liability, loss or damage arising while any vehicle covered by this insurance is 
being:

Being driven in an unsafe, unroadworthy or damaged condition or does not 
have a valid MOT certificate when needed
This service considered a previous complaint in which the investigator was persuaded by 
West Bays engineers conclusions, and on this basis said that the exclusions had been fairly 
applied. There were also no other expert reports provided to counter West Bays engineers 
opinion.
We arent technical motor engineers, so we need to rely on information and evidence 
provided by experts determining the cause of damage. And then we consider whether the 
insurer has reached a reasonable outcome based on that information.
Since that first complaint, which wasnt upheld, Mr M has obtained his own expert report. 
However, having considered this report, it isnt sufficient in persuading me that West Bays 
own engineers conclusions are incorrect, or that the exclusions have been unfairly applied. I 
say this because Mr Ms report says (Ive outlined the key points):
It would be very difficult to confirm that the wheel came off if the wheel nuts were 
loose or if it was a component failure i.e., wear and tear
And:
It would be difficult to counter argue against the Insurer stance that the wheel studs 
were loose
So, this doesnt actually provide any alternative opinion or conclusions on the cause. 
Instead, it says it would be difficult to show the insurer reached the incorrect conclusion.
Therefore, in the absence of anything which demonstrates West Bays engineers 
conclusions are incorrect, I dont think West Bay has acted unfairly by declining the claim 
based on the exclusions they have relied on.My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman