The complaint
Mr R says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) acted irresponsibly when 
it provided loans to him.
What happened 
Sunny gave Mr R 31 loans between September 2018 and September 2019. The loans have 
all been repaid. 
Heres a table showing loan details for the first nine loans:
Loan Date taken Date repaid Instalments Amount Highest* 
monthly 
repayment
1 18/09/2018 26/09/2018 6 £300.00 £83.18
2 28/09/2018 03/10/2018 6 £300.00 £85.01
3 03/10/2018 19/12/2018 6 £300.00 £91.27
4 06/10/2018 19/12/2018 6 £200.00 £150.86
5 13/10/2018 13/02/2019 6 £100.00 £184.19
6 26/10/2018 13/03/2019 6 £150.00 £234.19
7 30/12/2018 13/03/2019 6 £100.00 £112.91
8 08/01/2019 13/03/2019 6 £100.00 £146.26
9 21/02/2019 15/04/2019 6 £200.00
*approximate combined repayments where loans overlap
Mr R complained that Sunny provided him with loans that he couldnt afford to repay in a 
sustainable way. He told us that he became trapped in a debt spiral when he had to borrow 
DRN-1761340further loans to make the repayments on his existing loans, making his financial situation 
worse. 
Our adjudicator didnt feel that hed seen enough to say it was unfair that Sunny had 
provided loans 1 - 5 to Mr R. But he thought that loan 6 onwards shouldnt have been 
provided  and he explained how hed come to this view. 
Our adjudicator also gave some detailed instructions about the way he thought Sunny 
should settle the complaint. 
Sunny didnt agree with everything in our adjudicators view letter  but it said that after 
reviewing this complaint it now believed that by loan 22, it wouldve been prudent to have 
investigated further or at some point discussed Mr Rs financial circumstances as the way he 
was borrowing may have indicated that he was becoming reliant on these loans. So Sunny 
offered to partially uphold the complaint from loan 22-31. 
We passed this information on to Mr R. The offer falls short of our adjudicators 
recommended settlement and Mr R has rejected Sunnys settlement proposals and asked an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr R could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.Sunny was required to establish whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
Looking at the repayments that Mr R needed to make on loans 1-4, the amounts wouldve 
seemed relatively affordable compared with the disposable income hed declared. Given 
these repayment amounts (even where the loans overlapped), what was apparent about 
Mr Rs circumstances at the time, and his borrowing history with Sunny, I dont think it 
wouldve been proportionate for Sunny to ask Mr R for the amount of information that would 
be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first four loans. 
I do think Sunny should have done more to check Mr Rs circumstances by the time he took 
out loan 5  and when he asked for further loans after this. But I havent seen anything in the 
information available to me which shows that, had it done so, Sunny wouldve decided this 
loan (or the loans that followed) looked unaffordable. 
So I agree with our adjudicator about loans 1-5 and I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about 
these loans. As it seems Mr R hasnt objected to what our adjudicator has said, then I don't 
think I need say more about loans 1-5. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr R to see if there was 
a point at which Sunny reasonably shouldve seen that further lending was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. 
Like our adjudicator, I dont agree it was reasonable for Sunny to provide loan 6. At this 
point, I think Sunny shouldve realised that it was clear from looking at Mr Rs borrowing 
history that he was likely having money problems. 
I say this because by the time he asked for loan 6, Mr R already had three other outstanding 
short term loans with Sunny (loans 3, 4 and 5) which he was still paying for  and now he 
was asking for further borrowing. Loan 6 was Mr Rs fourth loan application that month.
So despite what Sunny says, to my mind this suggests that Mr R was finding it hard to 
manage his money and his financial difficulties were likely ongoing. 
I think that Sunny shouldve realised that Mr Rs borrowing record painted a picture of 
someone struggling with debt. And despite what hed told Sunny about his finances, it 
showed that Mr R was having serious money problems. So Sunny shouldve seen that the 
indications were that loan 6  and any further lending, wasnt likely to be sustainably 
affordable for Mr R. In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything Sunny has said  including 
comments made in response to our adjudicators opinion. But just because Sunny allowed 
customers to take out up to four loans at a time doesnt mean that loan 6 was sustainably 
affordable for Mr R. For the reasons set out above, I dont think Sunny shouldve provided 
loan 6 to Mr R.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr R, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Rs case, like the adjudicator, I think that this point 
was reached by loan 9. I say this because:
there were clear signs that Mr R wasnt managing to repay his loans sustainably  by
loan 9, he had been paying Sunny loans (without any significant break in lending) for
6 months in a row. And by now Sunny could see that hed established a clear pattern
of paying outstanding loans early and quickly borrowing again. So it looked like Mr R
probably wasnt using the loans for their intended purpose
the loan amounts were variable - but Mr Rs record of borrowing doesnt suggest that
he was asking to borrow because of a new need for a short term loan. Rather, I think
this indicated that overall his money problems were ongoing and the signs were that
he was increasingly struggling with debt.
I think that Mr R lost out when Sunny provided loan 9 because:
this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Rs indebtedness by allowing him to
take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time
the number of loans Mr R borrowed was likely to impact adversely on his ability to
access mainstream credit and so kept Mr R in the market for high-cost loans. By
loan 9 any further borrowing was likely to be detrimental to Mr Rs credit rating.
So overall, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint about loan 6 onwards.
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do  
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr R towards interest, fees and
charges on loans 6 - 31, not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr R which were
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr R originally made the
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay Mr R the total of A plus B
D. Remove all adverse entries from Mr Rs credit file for loans 6 - 8.E. The overall pattern of Mr Rs borrowing by loan 9 means any information recorded
about this loan and all the loans that followed is adverse, so Sunny should remove
these loans entirely from Mr Rs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint about loans 6 - 31. 
Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) should take the steps Ive set out 
above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman