DRN-3517461
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as C has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly turned 
down its business interruption insurance claim after it was impacted by the Covid-19 
pandemic.
Mr K, a director of C, has brought the complaint on Cs behalf.
What happened
C held a business interruption insurance policy with Ageas. It operates a repair shop.
Mr K said C closed its shop on 16 March 2020 because of the probability in his opinion that 
customers might have Covid-19 and bring an item carrying the virus into the shop. 
C claimed on the policy. Ageas declined the claim. It said the policy covered business 
interruption as a result of an occurrence of a notifiable infectious disease at the premises but 
it didnt think C had demonstrated that Covid-19 had occurred at the premises. 
Mr K brought Cs complaint to our service. Our Investigator looked into it but didnt 
recommend it be upheld. She thought Ageas had turned down the claim in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy. She said there was insufficient evidence to suggest that C 
had closed its business due to a case of Covid-19 at the premises. 
C asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Cs business. But I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether Ageas has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Cs claim.
The most relevant part of Cs policy is an extension to the policy that covers losses resulting 
from:
i  any occurrence of a Notifiable Disease (as defined below) at the Premises or 
attributable to food or drink supplied from the Premises
ii any discovery of an organism at the Premises likely to result in the occurrence of a 
Notifiable Disease (as defined below)
The policy defines Notifiable Disease as an illness sustained by any person resulting 
from:
i food or drink poisoning
ii any human infectious or human contagious disease (excluding Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or an AIDS related condition) an outbreak of which the 
competent Local Authority has stipulated shall be notified to them.
Its not in dispute that Covid-19 is a Notifiable Disease as defined in the policy. Mr K said 
that Covid-19 is an airborne invisible virus and it could have been on Cs premises without 
anyone knowing, for example before an infected person developed symptoms or because 
they were asymptomatic.
In my view a reasonable interpretation of this part of the policy is that there had to have been 
an occurrence of Covid-19 at Cs premises. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a positive 
test result, or conclusive diagnosis, from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to 
demonstrate a case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 
occurred at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the burden of 
proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its policy 
covers.
While its possible that some of Cs customers might have had Covid-19 before the shop 
closed, I havent seen anything apart from Mr Ks opinion to support this, such as evidence 
from customers that they were in fact suffering from Covid-19 at the time they visited the 
shop. Cs case seems to be founded on the fact that it was likely some of its customers were 
infected with the virus. Unfortunately for C this isnt enough to persuade me that, on the 
balance of probabilities, there was an occurrence of Covid-19 at its premises prior to the 
shops closure.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome C was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Ageas to pay Cs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman