DRN-3748607
The complaint
Miss T complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited accepted liability and settled 
a claim against her insurance policy when it shouldnt have. She also complains about the 
poor service through the claims process.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in 
detail. In summary, Miss T was involved in a road traffic accident at a roundabout in March 
2022. Miss T contacted Advantage to report the incident and make a claim. 
Advantage settled the claim. The claim was recorded as a fault claim, and it notified Miss T. 
She wasnt happy with the way Advantage had investigated the claim and wanted it to record 
it as a non-fault claim against her, so she complained to Advantage. She provided 
Advantage with further details of the incident. 
Advantage looked into the matter further but didnt uphold the complaint. It said it uses its 
experience and expertise to decide how best to deal with claims and on this occasion, it felt 
it couldnt defend Miss Ts position in relation to this incident so accepted liability on her 
behalf.    
Miss T remained unhappy with this and brought her complaint to this service. The 
investigator that looked into Miss Ts complaint didnt uphold it, in summary they said:
they didnt think Advantage acted unfairly in settling the claim
they agreed Advantage could have provided better service to Miss T but they didnt 
think this would have made a difference to the outcome of the claim.
Miss T didnt agree with the view, so the matter has been passed to me to decide. Miss T 
didnt think liability was fairly apportioned so felt she hadnt been treated fairly by the 
business. And she says Advantage just wanted her to accept what it said. Miss T was also 
unhappy about how her complaint to the business was handled. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful consideration 
to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. Having done so I have to tell 
Miss T that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome here, Ill explain why.
Its not my role here to decide liability for the claim, but to make sure that Advantage has 
acted fairly when doing so. Miss Ts policy like many others I have seen on the market 
contains terms similar to the one in the terms and conditions under General conditions:
Your Insurer has the right to:
Take over and conduct the defence or settlement of any claim
This means Advantage can settle a claim under the policy however it chooses, even if the 
decision is based on cost alone. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial decision about 
whether it is reasonable to contest a third-party claim. I do expect Advantage to look into 
things and consider if it is likely to be able to defend a claim before settling it.
Ive considered all the information provided by the parties and I can see Advantage 
considered the version of events from both Miss T and the third party. As well as looking at 
the damage caused to both vehicles. Advantage concluded Miss T had been changing lanes 
at the roundabout incorrectly, it based this decision on its knowledge and experience in 
claims. Having looked at the maps, images and testimonies provided by the parties I cant 
say Advantage came to this decision unfairly or unreasonably. 
So I think Advantage reasonably investigated the claim and considered the evidence before 
deciding to accept liability on Miss Ts behalf. I think its entitled to do this by the policy terms 
and conditions. So it follows I dont think Advantage needs to do anything further.
Ive also considered the service provided by Advantage during the claim. Whilst things could 
have been handled a little better, I dont think this impacted the overall decision on how to 
settle the claim so again I dont think Advantage need to do anything further here. 
Miss T said she wasnt happy with how Advantage had investigated her complaint. But the 
way that a business handles its customer complaints isnt a regulated activity which falls 
under our remit to decide, so I cant consider this point further.
I understand Miss T will be disappointed with my decision. But I dont think Advantage has 
done anything wrong. So I think Advantage has acted in a fair and reasonable way. This 
means Im not asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman