DRN-4080759
The complaint
Mrs A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) allowed an account to be opened and 
operated by a fraudster and that HSBC didnt do enough when it was notified the payments 
she sent to its customer were fraudulent.
What happened
Mrs A says she fell victim to a scam which involved paying money to improve her credit 
score and make money. She paid £10,001 to an account with HSBC as directed by the 
scammer. Mrs A thinks HSBC should not have allowed a scammer to open and operate this 
account. She also says that HSBC didnt do enough to return her funds.
HSBC said it isnt liable under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) and 
that relevant account opening checks were completed. HSBC also confirmed it had taken 
appropriate action in respect of the account Mrs As funds were sent to. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She felt 
there was insufficient evidence that Mrs A was the victim of a scam as she hadnt been 
provided with messages exchanged with the scammer. Mrs A asked for a final decision, so 
her complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator said that she didnt feel there was enough evidence that a scam had taken 
place. Whilst I appreciate why she reached this conclusion I think there is enough evidence 
to conclude Mrs A was the victim of a scam and I note the sending bank treated it as such. 
Given the nature of the messaging service used by the scammer I can understand why Mrs 
A no longer has these messages. And I note that Mrs A has provided screenshots of things 
the scammer posted about being able to improve credit scores and make money for people. 
I dont doubt that this scam had and continues to have a significant impact on Mrs A. But 
being the victim of a scam doesnt automatically entitle her to a refund from the bank that 
received her money.
HSBC has signed up to the Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code). The CRM Code sets out what is expected of 
the Sending Firm and Receiving Firm (in this case HSBC) when payments are made or 
received. 
In summary, the obligations for the receiving firm states firms should;
Take reasonable steps to prevent accounts from being used to launder the proceeds 
of APP scams. 
Have procedures to prevent, detect and respond to the receipt of funds from APP 
scam; and
Where the receiving Firm identifies funds where there are concerns that they may be 
the proceeds of an APP scam, it should freeze the funds and respond in a timely 
manner.
So Ive considered these points. 
HSBC has shared relevant information with our service in confidence to allow us to 
investigate Mrs As complaint. But Im limited as to how much information I can share with 
Mrs A because it relates to a third-party account. But Id like to assure her that Ive carefully 
reviewed everything before reaching my decision.
Complaints about receiving banks and any acts or omissions came into our jurisdiction from 
31 January 2019. Ive seen evidence from HSBC to show that the receiving bank account 
was opened prior to 31 January 2019. This means I cant comment on whether there were 
any failings by HSBC when the account was opened. 
Ive gone on to consider whether the activity on the receiving bank account ought reasonably 
to have caused HSBC any concern. Whilst data protection reasons mean I cant share any 
information with Mrs A, I dont think there was anything relating to the activity on the account 
that should have prompted HSBC to have any concerns.
Finally, Ive considered HSBCs actions on receipt of notification of the scam from Mrs As 
bank. I have seen evidence to show that by the time the sending bank reported the scam to 
HSBC all the funds she transferred to the scammer had been removed. So there was 
nothing HSBC could have done to protect Mrs As funds or prevent her loss. Im satisfied 
that once it was notified of the scam HSBC took appropriate action. 
Whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mrs A, I cant reasonably hold HSBC liable for her loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman