The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
May 2001. Mr M says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators 
findings so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Halifax has shown us a copy of the application form for the credit card. I can see its the type 
of application that would have been completed at a branch. So I think Mr M applied for the 
credit card and was sold the PPI during a meeting at a branch.
Halifax has shown us a copy of the credit card application signed by Mr M in 2001. I can see 
the application form contains a section about PPI. I note a box has been marked with a cross 
to add PPI to the account.
The cross was printed on the application form and Ive thought about this. The application 
form contains details of Mr Ms circumstances at the time. So I think the form was likely 
completed during a discussion, then printed and passed to Mr M to check and sign. I think 
its likely the PPI was discussed and accepted by Mr M during this conversation.
I also note the PPI remained on the account until 2003 and the premiums would have 
appeared on Mr Ms monthly statements. If Mr M had not agreed to the PPI, or didnt want it, 
Id expect him to have questioned it at an early stage. But Ive not see any evidence that he 
did so.
Overall I think Halifax made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this after so many years.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr M so it had to check that the PPI was right for him and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and he seems to have 
had a need for the cover.
DRN-1699922Mr M has told us hed receive full sick pay from him employer for up to three months 
followed by half pay for a further three months. But the PPI couldve paid a monthly benefit 
for up to 12 months if Mr M couldnt work. And the benefit would be paid in addition to any 
sick pay. So I still think Mr M would find the policy useful if he became unwell, particularly if 
he was unable to work for a prolonged period.
The PPI would also have paid a monthly benefit if Mr M had lost his job meaning he could 
have used any redundancy pay for other living costs. Mr M has said he could have used the 
equity in his home to pay the credit card if necessary. But the PPI would mean he would not 
have had to re-mortgage his home.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems 
like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr M off taking 
out the cover.
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund everything 
Mr M paid for it. But Halifax has already paid Mr M back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont 
think it needs to do anything more. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman