DRN-3067552
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) wont reimburse her the cost of 
payments that she made by bank transfer for a service that she received but wasnt happy 
with.
What happened
Miss W paid for the services of an expert to write a report and to possibly testify in court. 
Miss W received the report from the expert, but she wasnt happy with the quality of the 
report, and the expert didnt testify in court. As such, Miss W sought to recover the money 
that shed paid to the expert from the expert, but without success.
Miss W then approached BOS and asked them to recover the money on her behalf. BOS 
looked into Miss Ws request but explained that because Miss W had made the payments by 
bank transfer the payments werent covered by the same level of protection as they would 
have been if theyd have been made, for instance, by debit card, and that as such the 
transfers werent eligible for reimbursement. 
Miss W wasnt happy about this, and she felt that her disabilities hadnt been taken into 
account by BOS such that reasonable adjustments had been made  including that BOS had 
never told her that bank transfer payments werent protected. So, she raised a complaint.
BOS looked at Miss Ws complaint, but they confirmed that it wasnt their position that they 
would explain what types of payment were protected to a customer without that information 
being specifically requested by that customer. Because of this, they didnt uphold Miss Ws 
complaint.
Miss W wasnt satisfied with BOSs response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also didnt feel that BOS had done 
anything wrong by not presenting the information about payment security to Miss W without 
a specific request for it, and so they also didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint. 
Miss W remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must be frustrating for Miss W to have requested a reimbursement 
from BOS which she expected would be provided, only to then discover that because shed 
made the payments by bank transfer that the payments werent deemed eligible for 
reimbursement by BOS.
In her correspondence with this service, Miss W has made a number of detailed 
submissions. Id like to thank Miss W for making these submissions, and I hope that she 
doesnt consider it a discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, in 
line with this services role as a quick and informal dispute resolution service, Ill be 
focussing on what I feel are the key points that are most relevant in regard to my arriving at 
what I feel is a fair decision here.
As such, if Miss W notes that I havent directly addressed a specific point that shes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken by Miss W that I havent read and considered that point  I can confirm 
that Ive read and considered all submissions provided by both Miss W and BOS. Instead, it 
should be taken that I have read and considered that point, but that I dont feel that its 
necessary to address that point in this letter to arrive at what I feel is a fair outcome. 
Im aware that Miss W feels that BOS should have explained to her, prior to her making the 
payments in question, that payments made by bank transfer arent subject to the same level 
of protection as payments made by debit cards.
I can appreciate Miss Ws position here, but I wouldnt expect a bank to voluntarily present 
information about an aspect of an account beyond what is presented in the documents 
provided to its customers at the time of the account opening  such as the account terms 
and conditions and the account key features documents. Instead, I feel that it would 
incumbent on the account holder to contact the bank and request clarification on whatever 
aspects of the account they were uncertain about or wanted to know more about. 
And, while I note Miss Ws dissatisfaction that it wasnt explained to her at any point that 
bank transfer payments werent protected in the manner which she believed, it must also be 
noted that at no point was Miss W told that bank transfer payments were protected in such a 
way, meaning that its difficult not to conclude that Miss Ws belief that the payments would 
be eligible for reimbursement was founded on an assumption made by Miss W, rather than 
on any information provided to her by the bank.
Miss W has stated that she requested that information about how to manage her money and 
how to protect herself when making payments was requested by her, to be provided by BOS 
verbally, at the time that she opened that account. Miss W also confirm that information 
about bank transfer payments not being eligible for reimbursement wasnt provided to her at 
that time. 
Im uncertain as to what information was provided to Miss W at the time of her request, but 
given the complex nature of financial security I wouldnt consider it unreasonable that 
information regarding what levels of protection different methods of payment attract wasnt 
included in that information, and I say this because I would generally expect a bank to focus 
on matters of potential fraud and scam protection in relation to such a request. 
As such, it remains my position that it would have been incumbent on Miss W to have 
requested information about the level of protection provided on bank transfer payments 
before making those payments, if such information hadnt been provided to her.
Its also important to note here that, even had Miss W made the payments by debit card, the 
payments wouldnt have been eligible for reimbursement by a debit card chargeback claim at 
the time that Miss W contacted BOS about this issue. And this is because the time limit to 
make such claims is generally within 120 days of the payments being made  and in this 
instance Miss W first contacted BOS seeking reimbursement more than 120 days after the 
payments had been made.
All of which means that, while I do consider that it was Miss Ws responsibility to have 
requested information about the level of protection that the payments she was considering 
making attracted before she made the payments, even if I did consider the opposite  that BOS should have volunteered this information such that Miss W would have made the 
payments by debit card  it would still have been the case that the debit card payments 
wouldnt have been eligible for reimbursement, because Miss W didnt request such 
reimbursements from BOS within the time limits allowed for that method of payment.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss W was wanting here, and I can sympathise 
with her position, but it follows that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing BOS to 
take any further action. I hope that Miss W is able to find a satisfaction resolution to this 
issue via other channels, and I hope that she will understand, given all that Ive explained, 
why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman