DRN-4340385
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Assicurazioni Generali SpA (Generali) has turned down an incapacity 
claim she made on her employers group income protection insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties. So I havent set it out in  
detail here. Instead, Ive set out a summary of what I think are the key events.
Mrs H is insured under her employers group income protection policy. The policy provides 
cover in the event that Mrs H is unable to work in her own occupation, as a result of illness 
or injury. The deferred period is 52 weeks. 
In February 2022, Mrs H was signed-off from work by her GP, suffering from post-traumatic 
stress disorder (PTSD) and fibromyalgia. She was referred to occupational health (OH) by 
her employer and she underwent psychological therapy with a psychologist, but she 
remained unfit for work. So Mrs Hs employer made an incapacity claim on her behalf.
Generali requested medical evidence to assess Mrs Hs claim. It noted that shed been 
diagnosed with fibromyalgia in 2018 and subsequently, that shed been diagnosed with 
PTSD and prolonged duress stress disorder (PDSD) in 2020. It also noted that Mrs Hs 
conditions had remained stable for a few years, but that a relapse had been triggered by her 
employer directing her to return to the office one day each week. Generali noted too that in 
December 2022; a consultant OH physician had concluded that Mrs H would be fit to work 
from home. So it didnt think there was enough evidence to show she met the policy 
definition of incapacity throughout the entire deferred period and it turned down her claim.
Mrs H was unhappy with Generalis decision and she appealed. She provided evidence to 
show that shed been referred to neurology in January 2023 and also that shed been 
awarded personal independence payments (PIP) by the Department of Work and Pensions.
Generali appointed an independent medical examiner (IME) to assess Mrs H. The IME is a 
consultant psychiatrist. They concluded that Mrs H wasnt incapacitated on psychiatric 
grounds. They concluded too that Mrs Hs symptoms were non-specific and were, in many 
ways, a reaction to her circumstances, including her unresolved dispute with her employer. 
Based on the IMEs report and the other available evidence, Generali maintained its decision 
to turn down Mrs Hs claim.
Remaining unhappy with Generalis position, Mrs H asked us to look into her complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. He considered the 
available medical evidence and how Generali had assessed Mrs Hs claim. He thought it had 
been reasonable for Generali to rely on the IMEs findings. And based on the medical 
evidence as a whole, he didnt think it had been unfair for Generali to conclude that Mrs H 
hadnt shown she met the policy definition of incapacity.
Mrs H disagreed and Ive summarised her responses to our investigator. She didnt feel that 
consideration had been given to her symptoms of fibromyalgia and an assumption had been 
made that her symptoms now remained the same as they had been a year ago. She 
considered that she had provided evidence which showed she met the definition of 
incapacity, in the form of GP fit notes; her psychotherapists evidence and the OH reports. 
She explained how the symptoms of PTSD, PDSD and fibromyalgia could overlap and 
interact with one another. She stated that she was receiving the appropriate therapies for her 
conditions, but that her recovery had been hampered by both her employer and by Generali. 
And Mrs H told us that her condition has deteriorated since an OH report of December 2022. 
She said her absence in February 2022 was due to pressure being put on her to return to 
the office  which she knew she couldnt do because of her health and not being able to 
manage her symptoms from an office location. She questioned why Generali hadnt referred 
her for other available capability assessments and why it had used an IME who wasnt UK-
registered. She also questioned the accuracy of some of the IMEs findings. She said that 
her GP and psychotherapist would provide more evidence in support of her claim.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs H, and I know how upsetting my 
findings will be to her, I dont think it was unfair for Generali to turn down her claim. Ill 
explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mrs H that while Ive summarised the background to her complaint  
and her detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all thats been said and sent.  
Im very sorry to hear about the circumstances that led to Mrs H needing to make a claim  
and I dont doubt what a worrying and upsetting time this has been for her. I was also sorry 
to read about the impact of Mrs Hs poor health on her.
It's important that I make it clear that this decision will consider whether Generali handled 
Mrs Hs claim fairly, based on the evidence available to it when it initially assessed her claim 
and when it issued its final response to her complaint. I understand Mrs H has told us that 
her treating doctors intend to provide new evidence in support of her claim. However, Mrs H 
will need to first send any new evidence to Generali for its review and assessment before 
were able to comment on it. If Mrs H is unhappy with any further consideration of her claim 
following the provision of new medical evidence, she may potentially be able to make a new 
complaint about that issue alone.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And  
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So, Ive considered, amongst other things,  
the terms of this policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether Generali 
handled Mrs Hs claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of the policy, as these form the basis of Mrs 
Hs employers contract with Generali. Mrs Hs employer made a claim on her behalf for 
incapacity benefit, given she wasnt fit for work. So I think it was reasonable and appropriate 
for Generali to consider whether Mrs Hs claim met the policy definition of incapacity. This is:
As a result of illness or injury, the Member is incapable of performing the Material and 
Substantial duties of their occupation, and they are not carrying out any other Work or occupation.
Material and Substantial duties means duties that are normally required for the performance 
of a Members occupation and cannot reasonably be omitted or modified by their employer.
This means that in order for Generali to pay Mrs H incapacity benefit, it must be satisfied that  
she had an illness or injury which prevented her from carrying out the material and  
substantial duties of her occupation. 
The policy says that Generali will begin to pay incapacity benefit after the end of the deferred 
period. This means that in order for benefit to be paid, Mrs H needed to have been  
incapacitated in line with the policy terms for the entire deferred period and afterwards.  
Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim  
on their policy. This means it was Mrs Hs responsibility to provide Generali with enough  
medical evidence to demonstrate that an illness or injury had led to her being unable to carry 
out the duties of her occupation for the full 52-week deferred period between February 2022 
and the end of January 2023  not only for her current employer, but any employer.
Generali assessed the evidence Mrs H provided in support of her claim. While it 
sympathised with Mrs Hs position, it concluded that there hadnt been any notable 
deterioration in her symptoms during the deferred period which had led to her being unable 
to carry out her role. Instead, it felt that Mrs H  was suffering with a reaction to being asked 
to return to her employers office. So Ive next looked at the available medical and other 
evidence to assess whether I think this was a fair conclusion for Generali to draw.
It's clear from the GP records and other evidence, that Mrs H had been diagnosed with 
fibromyalgia in 2018 and with PTSD and PDSD in 2020. I understand Mrs H was signed-off 
from work during 2020, although at that time, no claim was made on the policy. However, it 
seems Mrs H had returned to work more than 12 months before this particular period of 
absence  and indeed, that shed been working full-time hours at home prior to February 
2022.
Mrs Hs GP records show that on 4 February 2022, she spoke with a GP who recorded that 
Mrs H was having a flare-up of her symptoms of fibromyalgia and PTSD. The GP noted:
Essentially triggered as boss asking her to go into work one day per week  can work from 
home remainderPt (patient) states can do job from home and doesnt need to be in the 
office. Chat re compromise and liaising with work for some agreementTime out okay for 
flare-up but not long-term solution and could be detrimental in the long run.Advised needs 
to speak to HR and OH whilst off for future planning.
Following this entry, Mrs Hs GP continued to issue fit notes which stated that she wasnt fit 
for work due to fibromyalgia and PTSD. The notes show that during the deferred period, Mrs 
H continued to take pain-relief and anti-depressant medication and undergo psychotherapy 
which had begun prior to her absence in February 2022. I do note that some medications 
were changed during this time.
Mrs Hs psychotherapist provided evidence in support of Mrs Hs claim and Ive set out what 
I think are their key comments below:
On 22 February 2022, the psychologist said: 
(Mrs H) presents symptoms of PDSD which is a manifestation of a psychiatric injury that is 
directly due and as a result of a prolonged exposure to duressAs to the current pressure for her to return to work in the physical sense, when client has 
been working from home quite capably, and when client is beginning to manage her 
conditions, the duress this has caused has massively impacted on the therapeutic alliance 
and progress
Client will not recover fully from the diagnoses as above until she has the opportunity to fully 
engage in her treatment without feeling under duress
As for time scales, if client feels less pressure to physically return to her workplaceI am 
confident client will sufficiently recover enough to begin making some plans to phase back 
into her role in the near future, with, of course, reasonable adjustment of allowing (Mrs H) to 
continue working from home being put back into place.
The psychologist wrote a further letter to Generali, which is undated. They said:
Clients symptoms have recently been magnified due to the pressure to return to her post 
and to be expected to be in an office environmentPDSD is defined as a psychiatric injury 
due to traumatic and/or prolonged exposure to duress. It is to be noted that any exposure to 
stressors (in this case the workplace environment, and I humbly ask it is to be noted this is 
not in any way about (Mrs Hs) capability of the work she is asked to do, but purely from the 
workplace stressors) she may relapse
I had humbly and repeatedly asked (Mrs Hs) employers for reasonable adjustment to be 
implementedThe reasonable adjustment being allowing (Mrs H) to work from home. Her 
employers felt this was not something they could offer and therefore, because of this further 
duress, there has been a flare-up of her fibromyalgia which has had an unfortunate domino 
effect on her mental healthTaking all these factors into account, I cannot envisage (Mrs 
Hs) return to work in the near future.
Ive carefully considered too the OH reports which were provided by two OH physicians in 
May and December 2022. In May 2022, the OH physician considered that Mrs H wouldnt be 
fit for work for up to three months (mid-August 2022).
In December 2022, the OH physician made the following findings, which I think are key. 
They said:
From history, Mrs H tells me that her main problems are fatigue and pain from the 
Fibromyalgia and this is preventing her from attending work. She does need to do exercises 
during the day, and she does not wish to do these at work where she may be observed. She 
does not find an office environment comfortableAll of these problems are barriers 
preventing her in returning to the office.
Unfortunately, fibromyalgia and PTSD are chronic conditions, and from the history she has 
supplied to me, there has been little change in the physical condition over the last three 
years. Similarly, the psychological problems remain ongoing
(Mrs H) tells me that she is able to perform her role from home, but I am not in a position to 
comment on whether that is appropriate for the businessI would suggest that if the 
business is unable to support the adjustment of working from home on a long-term basis, 
then you may wish to consider redeployment to a role that would enable her to work from 
home.
Based on the medical evidence provided to Generali when it assessed the claim, I dont 
think it was unfair for it to conclude that Mrs H hadnt shown she met the policy definition of 
incapacity. The evidence indicated that Mrs H had suffered from fibromyalgia for around three/four years before she made the claim  and that thered been little change in her 
condition over the previous three years. Mrs H had previously been able to work during that 
period, on a full-time basis. And it seems that Mrs H had been undergoing psychotherapy 
and taking medication for both conditions for some months prior to becoming absent in 
February 2022. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Generali to conclude that the reason 
for Mrs Hs absence was a reaction to being directed to return to the office one day per 
week. Indeed, the medical evidence clearly suggests that Mrs H and the treating 
professionals felt that she would be able to work if she could work from home full-time. I 
dont think Generali acted unfairly by concluding then that it wasnt Mrs Hs illnesses which 
prevented her from carrying out the material and substantial duties of her role. Instead, I 
think it was reasonably entitled to conclude that Mrs Hs absence was caused by a reaction 
to the proposed change in her working location by her employer.
Mrs H appealed Generalis decision and Ive looked carefully at her appeal letter. Amongst 
other things, Mrs H stated:
I feel this is a mental injury that I sustained that caused physical symptoms that prevented 
me from being unable to continue to work from home.
As Mrs H had indicated she believed psychiatric symptoms were causing physical illness, I 
think it was appropriate for Generali to appoint an IME  a consultant psychiatrist - to assess 
whether Mrs H was psychologically fit for work  especially given it had already concluded 
that she wasnt physically incapacitated from carrying out her role. While I appreciate Mrs H 
has concerns that the IME wasnt UK-registered, Im satisfied that as a consultant 
psychiatrist, the IME is an expert in their field and well-placed to comment on incapacity due 
to mental illness. So I dont think it was unfair for Generali to rely on the IMEs conclusions. 
Again, Ive set out their key findings:
(Mrs Hs) sick leave came about as she was not afforded the opportunity to continue 
working from home once Covid-19 restrictions were lifted
Her symptoms are non-specific and in many ways are a reaction to her current 
circumstances, including her unresolved dispute with (sic) employer and no clear return to 
work pathway
(Mrs H) has said she does not want to return to an office environment due to physical health 
issues. Aside from her relationship problems with her manager, there is no psychiatric 
reason why she cannot work
(Mrs H) is not disabled from working on psychiatric grounds.
Ive thought very carefully about all of the evidence thats been provided and which was 
available to Generali when it made its final decision on Mrs Hs complaint. Its important I  
make it clear that Im not a medical expert. In reaching a decision, I must consider the  
evidence provided by both medical professionals and other experts to decide what evidence 
I find most persuasive. 
Its clear that Mrs H was suffering from symptoms of fibromyalgia and PDSD/PTSD, which 
had been diagnosed some time before she was signed-off in February 2022. And shes told 
us that her symptoms have since deteriorated.
But, I have to bear in mind the contemporaneous medical evidence which was available to 
Generali when it assessed the claim and when it issued its final response to Mrs Hs 
complaint. For the majority of the full deferred period, the evidence indicates that Mrs H 
would have been fit to work, if she could work from home full-time. The medical evidence suggests that her fibromyalgia had changed little over the three years prior to December 
2022 and shed been undergoing psychotherapy for PTSD/PDSD since 2020. And the IME 
specifically stated that Mrs G wasnt incapacitated on psychiatric grounds. Instead, I find it 
was fair for Generali to take the view that the evidence suggested Mrs Hs absence was due 
to a dispute with her employer, rather than a deterioration of her illnesses.
As such, taking into account the totality of the medical and other evidence available to 
Generali when it assessed this claim, I think it was reasonable for it to conclude that the 
evidence showed that during the deferred period, Mrs H was suffering from an  
understandable reaction to the very difficult situation in which she found herself due to 
workplace stressors  And that the main reason for Mrs Hs absence during the deferred 
period was likely a reaction to the stress she was experiencing as opposed to an 
incapacitating deterioration of her existing illnesses. 
On this basis then, I dont think it was unfair for Generali to conclude that Mrs Hs absence  
wasnt due to an incapacity in line with the policy definition. Instead, I think it fairly concluded  
that Mrs Hs absence was more likely due to workplace stressors and a reaction to her 
circumstances. And while I appreciate Mrs H has been awarded PIP, the terms on which 
benefit claims are assessed differ from the way in which Generali assesses incapacity 
claims. I note too that the award seems to have been made some months into the deferred 
period. So I dont think I could reasonably direct Generali to accept Mrs Hs claim on this 
basis either.
Id like to reassure Mrs W that Im not suggesting that she was fit for work. I appreciate she  
was medically signed-off. And I understand shes been through a very difficult time. But I 
need to decide whether I thinks shes shown she met the policy definition of incapacity for 
the whole of the 52-week deferred period. As Ive explained, I dont think she has. 
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mrs Hs position, I find it was fair and reasonable 
for Generali to turn down her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman