DRN-3376512
The complaint
Mr M complains about Sanderson Drake Limited (SDL) and their refusal to agree a 
repayment plan.
What happened
In May 2020, Mr M instructed SDL to pursue a claim for irresponsible lending against lender 
J. To authorise SDL to act on his behalf, Mr M signed a letter of authority (LOA) which 
agreed to the terms of the Conditional Fee Agreement (CFA) he was entering into.
SDL pursued the claim, which resulted in Mr M receiving a total cash award of £1,087.60. 
So, on 10 August 2021, SDL invoiced Mr M for their fee of £391.54, in line with the terms of 
the CFA.
SDL didnt receive payment from Mr M within 7 days of their invoice. So, they sent invoice 
reminders asking Mr M to arrange payment. Mr M e-mailed SDL on 26 August, explaining 
the refund had been received but the full amount had been used to pay for his fathers 
funeral, who had passed away recently. So, Mr M requested that a repayment plan be set up 
for no more than £38 a month.
SDL recognised this request. But before agreeing to a repayment plan, they asked Mr M to 
send them supporting evidence of the funeral costs and for Mr Ms last 30 days bank 
statements, so they were able to calculate an affordable repayment plan. Mr M didnt want to 
provide this information as he didnt think it was necessary. And in reply, SDL explained 
without this information, they would continue with the collection activity set out in their CFA, 
which included additional costs. Mr M was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr M didnt think SDLs refusal to set up a repayment plan without him providing further 
information was fair. He thought SDL should accept his word that the £38 was all he could 
afford. And he explained the additional fees added to the invoice were impacting his mental 
health as he didnt have the funds to clear the debt. So, he wanted to be compensated for 
this upset and for SDL to agree the original repayment plan of £38 a month that he 
proposed.
SDL responded and didnt agree. They thought the terms of the CFA set out clearly their 
invoice for a cash refund award needed to be paid within seven days. So, they didnt think 
they were unreasonable when requesting for further information before agreeing to a 
repayment plan, as Mr M was asking for them to agree to act outside of the terms he agreed 
to initially. And while they recognised it wouldve been a difficult time for Mr M, they didnt 
think theyd acted unfairly in their communication with him. So, they didnt think they needed 
to do anything more. Mr M remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They recognised why Mr M 
spent the refund he received and appreciated the difficulty he wouldve faced at the time. But 
they thought SDL entering into a discussion with Mr M about the possibility of a repayment 
plan showed them acting fairly, as this was outside of the terms of the CFA. And they 
thought SDLs request for information that allowed them to calculate what a repayment plan 
should look like was reasonable. So, they didnt think SDL needed to do anything more.
Mr M didnt agree. He didnt think our investigators outcome was empathetic to his situation 
and the impact on his mental health at the time, which included suicidal thoughts. And he 
maintained his belief SDL acted unfairly. As Mr M didnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr M. I recognise that SDLs 
invoice came around the same time as the passing of his father, which I have no doubt 
wouldve been extremely upsetting. And I understand the funeral costs associated with this 
wouldve brought an unexpected expense. So, I can understand why Mr M took the decision 
to use the refund he received from lender J to cover this. And in this situation, as the refund 
had been spent, I can understand why Mr M would ask SDL to consider a repayment plan 
for their fee, to protect his short-term finances. Because of this, I can understand why Mr M 
was left unhappy when this repayment couldnt be agreed.
I think its important for me to make clear that SDL had no obligation to agree to a repayment 
plan. But, our service expects businesses such as SDL to act positively and sympathetically 
to customers who are in financial difficulty or who are struggling to pay an outstanding debt. 
So, even thought SDL had no obligation to agree to a repayment plan, Id expect them to 
consider Mr Ms request in a fair manner. And when doing this, Id expect any requests for 
information to be reasonable and justified. Unfortunately for Mr M, in this situation I think 
SDL have. And Ill explain why.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the CFA Mr M entered into. And within these, its made 
clear that when a customer receives a total cash award, they agree to pay SDLs invoice 
within seven days.
Ive seen SDL invoiced Mr M on 10 August 2021. And I cant see that Mr M responded to 
SDL until 26 August, some 16 days later. So, by this point, I think Mr M had already broken 
the terms of the CFA and I think SDL had acted fairly by not continuing with their collections 
process, which included additional charges, by this point.
I can see on 26 August, Mr M made SDL aware hed spent the funds to pay for this fathers 
funeral. And so, he suggested a repayment of no more than £38 a month. SDL didnt refuse 
this. But they did request that Mr M provide them with supporting evidence that shows the 
funds were spent towards the funeral costs before agreeing it.
Mr M doesnt think this was fair, or necessary. But I dont agree. Mr M was asking SDL to 
agree to deviate away from the legally binding CFA he entered into. And because of this, I 
dont think SDLs request for further information to support this was unreasonable. I think 
SDL were entitled to ensure they had evidence to show the funds had been spent, and to 
ask for bank statements so they could gain an accurate picture of Mr Ms finances and what 
he could afford. Thats not to say I dont believe Mr Ms testimony was accurate, or that the £38 he proposed 
was the most he could afford. But its standard industry practice for this kind of information to 
be requested and analysed before a repayment plan is agreed. And I dont think SDLs 
request was an accusation of Mr M being untruthful, or evidence that SDL failed to act 
empathetically. I think they acted both positively and sympathetically to Mr Ms situation by 
agreeing to consider a repayment plan. And I think it was Mr Ms own decision at this point 
not to provide the information they requested.
And as Mr M didnt provide this information, SDL were unable to agree to a repayment plan. 
So, they continued with their collection activity, in line with the terms of the CFA. I can see 
before SDL did this, they made Mr M aware in an e-mail of what these terms were and what 
the financial implications may be. So, I cant say SDL have acted unfairly when adding 
further costs to the invoice, as their fee was payable, and no acceptable repayment plan had 
been agreed.
I recognise after SDLs final response to Mr Ms complaint, they did put forward a repayment 
plan for £40, with an initial £60 payment. So, I can appreciate why Mr M would be unhappy 
this wasnt done sooner. But this offer was made following further information provided by Mr 
M regarding his living status and suicidal thoughts hed been experiencing. So, I dont think it 
would be fair for me to say SDL had acted unreasonably when doing this, as I think they 
were responding in a positive and sympathetic manner to Mr Ms situation change. 
And even so, had Mr M provided SDL with the information they requested initially, I think a 
repayment plan wouldve been agreed sooner before these situation changes took place.
So, while I do appreciate the struggles Mr M has faced and the additional impact the 
outstanding invoice wouldve added to these, I dont think I can say SDL have acted unfairly 
or unreasonably. And so, I dont think they need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Sanderson Drake 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman