DRN-3312830
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) did not provide him with the correct 
support when he approached Halifax in 2010.
Mr J says that, rather than sell him a fee-paying Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) 
in March 2010, Halifax shouldve instead changed his account to one that did not incur a 
monthly fee and would also not allow him to go overdrawn. 
Mr J says that such an account wouldve been more appropriate for his circumstances. He 
says this because the reason why he approached Halifax in the first place was because the 
overdraft charges were adding to his indebtedness and he was not managing his money 
well.
Mr J also complained that Halifax didnt remove the overdraft from the account once Halifax 
had accepted that the URCA had been mis-sold.
What happened
Mr J originally complained that Halifax had mis-sold him a fee-paying Ultimate Reward 
Current Account (URCA) on 4 March 2010. 
Halifax upheld the complaint and arranged for all of the URCA account fees to be refunded 
to Mr J, alongside any overdraft charges incurred as a direct result of the monthly account 
fee. Halifax also paid Mr J 8% simple compensatory interest on the URCA account fees, less 
tax. 
As the URCA included an interest and charge free portion of £300 on the overdraft facility - 
which was not available on fee-free accounts - Halifax deducted the savings that Mr J 
received as a result of this benefit from the redress. The purpose of this redress was to put 
Mr J back into the position he wouldve been in had the URCA not been sold to him i.e. had 
he continued with a fee-free account, but with the same overdraft limit in place.
However, Mr J felt that, in addition to the offer made by Halifax regarding the sale of the 
URCA, Halifax should also refund all overdraft interest and charges that itd applied to the 
account since March 2010. Mr J said such a refund is warranted because Halifax shouldve 
changed his account to one where he had no overdraft whatsoever.
Our adjudicators assessed the complaint and ultimately concluded that:
Our service could not consider whether Halifax shouldve removed the overdraft in 
2010  so the adjudicator was unable to address Mr Js main concern i.e. that all 
overdraft interest and charges incurred since 2010 should be refunded;
Our service could consider the overdraft charges and interest applied to the account 
since 29 May 2014, but the adjudicator didnt think that a refund of those overdraft 
charges was warranted.
Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators assessments, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
Ive already issued a decision explaining why our service is unable to look into whether 
Halifax shouldve removed Mr Js overdraft in 2010. Therefore this decision will only address 
the remaining parts of Mr Js complaint that our service is able to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on everything that I have seen, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Should Halifax refund any overdraft charges applied since 2014?
Because of how the time limits work, our service is able to consider whether the overdraft 
charges applied to Mr Js account within six years of the complaint being made, were done 
so in circumstances where it was fair and reasonable to apply them to the account. And one 
of our adjudicators did review this and initially recommended that Halifax refund the overdraft 
charges that were applied to Mr Js account since January 2019. 
However, the adjudicator changed her mind after Halifax responded and said that it would 
not have been apparent to Halifax, just from looking at the transactions on the account, that 
Mr J was in financial difficulties. In summary, Halifax said this because the amounts being 
credited to the account were often substantial enough to have cleared the overdrawn 
balance (or at least reduced it) and return the account to a credit balance. 
Overall, I think that what Halifax said was not unreasonable. Furthermore, Mr and Mrs J 
appear to have agreed with Halifaxs conclusions on this point by saying that this is the 
correct analysis. Mr and Mrs J have also repeatedly said that this is not what Mr Js 
complaint is about and insist that the complaint is not about financial hardship. Therefore I 
wont comment any further on that point.
Should Halifax have removed the overdraft once itd accepted the URCA had been mis-
sold?   
Mr J says that, in a letter sent to him in 2019, Halifax agreed itd mis-sold the URCA, and 
said that the overdraft was being removed from the account. Therefore, Mr J says that all 
overdraft charges applied since 2019 should be refunded. Mr J says he had not agreed to 
have an overdraft facility on this new account and therefore the charges are unlawful. 
Ive considered this point, but I dont agree with what Mr J says. Firstly, the letters in which 
Halifax upheld the complaint concerning the mis-selling of the URCA were sent in 2020, not 
2019. And having reviewed those letters, Halifax did not say that the overdraft would be 
removed. In a letter dated 14 July 2020, in which Halifax accepted the packaged account had been 
mis-sold, Halifax did say that the account would be switched to one without a monthly fee. 
But it did not say that the overdraft would be removed. I should also add that Mr Js point 
about him not agreeing to an overdraft on the new account does not apply. This is because it 
was not a new account. It was the same account that Mr J had held since at least March 
2010, but with the package of benefits hed had since 2010 removed. 
Its also worth noting that even if Halifax had removed the overdraft on the new account, 
each transaction Mr J attempted when he had insufficient funds in his account would, quite 
rightly, have been treated as a request for credit. And it is only the regulators new rules 
which came into force in April 2020, which would have prevented Mr J from being in a worse 
position as a result of incurring further unarranged overdraft charges leaving him in a worse 
position. 
In a letter sent to Mr J dated 14 May 2020, Halifax did agree to refund all of the daily 
overdraft charges that Mr J had incurred since the start of 2020 (amounting to £261.41) as 
well as £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. This letter also explained that a 
temporary stop on daily overdraft charges would be applied to the account up until 1 July 
2020. This was to allow Mr J some time to contact Halifax to discuss his finances i.e. his 
overdrawn balance, further. The letter invited Mr J to contact the money management team 
to discuss his options. But again there was no mention that the overdraft facility would be 
removed  this was essentially because Mr J would have to repay the overdrawn balance 
first, before it could be removed.
In a later letter, dated 28 July 2020, Halifax addressed Mr Js point about the refund of all 
overdraft interest and charges. In this letter Halifax said: In regards to an arrangement to 
pay off your arranged overdraft. Please contact our Money Management team on 0808 145 
0379 to discuss further. So again, Halifax had not said that the overdraft would be removed, 
but it did explain that Mr J would need to contact the Money Management team to arrange a 
repayment plan of his overdrawn balance. 
So taking everything into account, I think that Halifax took reasonable steps to support Mr J 
and to explain to him how he could arrange to repay the outstanding overdrawn balance on 
his account. I also havent seen anything that suggests Halifax said it would remove the 
overdraft, but then failed to do so.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman