DRN-4295002
The complaint
Mr I has complained that Pension Insurance Corporation plc (PIC) provided him with
misleading valuations on the annual pension he would receive if he deferred his retirement
date.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision, which I issued last month. 
My provisional decision said:
What happened
Mr I was a member of a defined benefit pension scheme provided by his employer. He left 
pensionable service with the employer in 2000. In 2018 PIC bought out the pension scheme, 
so they were then responsible for providing Mr I with his pension income when he reached 
the scheme retirement age. Mr I would receive his pension through a deferred annuity held 
with PIC.
Mr I was sent a policy schedule which set out details of the deferred annuity held with PIC. 
This schedule said that Mr Is normal retirement age under the scheme was 60 and that he 
could expect to receive a pension of approximately £40,000 a year at that age.
Mr I reached his 60th birthday in March 2019. By then Mr I was living in Germany. Mr I said 
that as the state pension age in Germany is age 63, he decided to delay taking his PIC 
pension until he was 63, to tie in with when he would start to receive his German state 
pension.
In December 2019 Mr I asked for details of what pension he could expect to receive if he 
started to draw his pension in either March 2020 or March 2022.
PIC sent two covering letters with enclosures to Mr I in December 2019. One letter enclosed 
an estimate of pension benefits at March 2020, the other at March 2022. Aside from these 
different years, all other wording in the covering letters was identical.
The covering letters stated that: The figures we quote are estimates based on current 
factors and we will need to recalculate your final benefits at your actual retirement date.
Together with each covering letter was a document headed Estimated Retirement 
Quotation. One quotation set out details of the estimated pension benefits that Mr I could 
receive if he retired in March 2020. This quoted a total pension of approximately £42,000 a 
year.
The other quotation set out details of the estimated pension benefits that Mr I could receive 
in March 2022. This quoted a total pension of approximately £48,000.
In June 2021 Mr I obtained a further quotation from PIC. This was also prepared on the 
basis that Mr I retired in March 2022 and again quoted an estimated total pension of 
approximately £48,000 a year.
In October 2021 Mr I did retire and started to receive his pension from PIC. He received 
confirmation from PIC that he would receive a yearly pension of approximately £42,900.
This figure was less than Mr I had been expecting. He wrote to PIC to ask why his pension 
was so much less than the March 2022 estimated pension shown in the quotation that PIC 
had sent to him.
PIC replied to Mr I explaining how they had calculated his pension in October 2021. PIC said 
that they calculated what the yearly increase wouldve been in Mr Is pension had he retired 
at age 60. Mr Is pension at age 60 was approximately £40,000 a year. This pension 
wouldve increased in line with the Retail Prices Index (RPI) each year. This annual increase 
was not capped.
 Mr Is pension would increase in January each year following his retirement. Therefore, if Mr 
I had retired in March 2019, then the first increase in his pension would have been in 
January 2020.
The annual RPI rate used to calculate the increase in Mr Is pension every January is the 
rate published in November from the previous year. This would mean that the pension 
increase calculated in January 2020 would be based on the published RPI rate from 
November 2019, and so on.
The first increase applied to Mr Is pension would be prorated as he would not have been 
retired for a whole year at that point. It would be based on the number of whole months 
between when Mr I retired and the first January following his retirement.
Information provided by PIC show that Mr Is pension increased by 1.7% for 2019 and by 
0.9% for 2020. These increases added approximately an extra £1,000 a year to the pension 
that Mr I wouldve received at age 60. PIC therefore added approximately £1,000 to Mr Is 
pension in October 2021, to increase his pension from £40,000 to approximately £41,000.
PIC went on to explain that as Mr I had delayed his retirement by approximately 2 and a half 
years, they recognised that he had not received any pension income over this period. To 
reflect this they apply a late retirement re-spread factor (LRRF) to Mr Is pension.
PIC have said that the purpose of the LRRF is to re-spread the missed pension that would 
have been paid to Mr I if he had retired at age 60 over the remainder of Mr Is lifetime. They 
have further explained that Mr Is missed pension payments were rolled up to October 2021 
together with interest to increase Mr Is pension at October 2021. A re-spread factor is then 
applied by PIC to calculate the additional pension payable.PIC have further explained that The factor is calculated with a view to provide fair value 
taking into account future pension escalations, along with any contingent spouse benefit 
payable. Life expectancy is one of the factors taken into account, but not the only factor. The 
factor is updated monthly to reflect the current market conditions at the point the benefits are 
put into payment.
The application of the LRRF by PIC, based on their calculations, added approximately a 
further £1,900 a year to Mr Is pension in October 2021.
Therefore, as Mr Is pension at age 60 was approximately £40,000 a year, by delaying taking 
his pension to October 2021, his pension increased by approximately £1,000 a year due to 
RPI and approximately £1,900 a year due to the LRRF. This gave Mr I his pension of 
approximately £42,900 a year in October 2021.
PIC further explained that the RPI increase applied to Mr Is pension in January 2022 was 
also prorated. PIC have said that this was because Mr I started to receive his pension in 
October 2021, the increase applied to his pension in January 2022 would be based on the 
number of whole months that Mr I had been receiving his pension in 2021, and not the whole 
year.
Mr I did not accept PICs explanation and he complained to PIC. Mr I maintains that the 
increase in his pension of £2,900 a year whilst it was deferred between March 2019 and 
October 2021 is lower than the increase he had expected based on the retirement 
quotations hed received from PIC. Mr I has also asked PIC for details of the calculations 
used in the LRRF.
PIC rejected Mr Is complaint. PIC have said that the increases to Mr Is pension whilst in 
deferment have been calculated and applied correctly. They also said that the additional 
pension of approximately £2,900 a year that Mr I now receives will increase in line with RPI 
each year, along with the rest of his yearly pension.
PIC declined to disclose full details of the LRRF calculations to Mr I. They say that their 
calculations are commercially sensitive information. Whilst PIC didnt uphold Mr Is 
complaint, they did offer Mr I a good will payment of £50 in consideration of any confusion 
caused by their retirement quotations.
Mr I brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators 
considered Mr Is complaint and concluded that the complaint should be upheld. This was 
because they thought the retirement quotations didnt include all the relevant information that 
they should have and that this gave Mr I a false expectation. The Investigator concluded that 
PIC should pay Mr I £150 for the confusion and disappointment this has caused him.
Mr I has not accepted the Investigators view. Mr I thinks that he should receive a greater 
increase in his deferred pension and that PIC should disclose full details of their LRRF 
calculations to him. Mr I asked for his complaint to be referred to an Ombudsman. The 
matter has therefore been brought to me to consider.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mr I has said that although he could have started to receive his PIC pension in March 2019, 
when he reached age 60, he had planned instead to retire at age 63, which was in March 
2022. Mr I said this was because he had moved to live in Germany, and age 63 was the 
earliest state retirement age in Germany.
Mr I received late retirement quotations from PIC in December 2019, and again in June 
2021. These quotations were all produced by PIC after Mr Is 60th birthday. He received 
quotations for retirement in March 2022, in line with Mr Is plan to retire at age 63. I have not 
seen any evidence to show if Mr I received or requested any late retirement quotations 
before his 60th birthday.
Based on the documents that I have seen it seems reasonable to me that Mr I had decided 
ahead of reaching age 60 that he would defer taking his pension from PIC until age 63.
I therefore do not think that the retirement quotations produced by PIC had an influence 
upon Mr Is decision not to start receiving his pension at age 60.
I do however think it likely that on reading the retirement quotations produced in December 
2019 and June 2021 they would have had an influence on Mr Is decision to continue with 
deferring taking his PIC pension.
Mr I had asked for retirement quotations to be produced assuming a retirement age of 63, 
that is in March 2022. These quotations showed a pension of approximately £48,000 a year.
Mr I decided to take his pension in October 2021, so approximately 5 months before his 63rd 
birthday. Mr I has questioned the basis on which his yearly pension of approximately 
£42,900 was calculated when he retired in October 2021.
Following PICs buyout of the defined benefit scheme, Mr I received a new policy schedule 
from PIC setting out the terms for his deferred annuity. Paragraph 2.4.2 of this policy 
schedule, in section 2.4 headed Adjustment on retirement after Normal Retirement Age 
explains the rules on late retirement. This rule states the following:
The amount of the Member's Scheme Annuity will be adjusted by a late retirement factor. If 
the Annuity starts after the date on which the Member reaches Normal Retirement Age, that 
part of the Annuity (if any) will be increased for late payment in respect of the period 
between the date on which the Member reached Normal Retirement Age and the date the 
Annuity started being paid. The late retirement adjustment shall be determined as follows:
(a) in respect of the period on and from Normal Retirement Age, the Member's Scheme 
Annuity shall be adjusted by PIC using its Standard Terms.
No further explanation of what these Standard Terms is given. Essentially the policy 
schedule only says that by deferring taking his pension, Mr Is pension would be increased. 
But its not clear in what way exactly. And the retirement illustrations that PIC sent also 
informed Mr I that he would be receiving more annual pension by deferring taking his 
pension.
PIC would not disclose their LFFR calculation to Mr I or to this service. In response to my 
request PIC have said In terms of revaluation up to Normal Retirement Date we use a future 
assumption of 2.5%pa for RPI and 1.5%pa for CPI, from Normal Retirement to Late 
retirement, we assume future increases of 4%/5%/7% per annum depending on the tranche. 
This is the approach that was agreed with the Trustee during transition for any projected 
retirement quotations. We use best estimate assumptions re economic and demographic 
assumptions.With such limited information Im unable to say that the LRRF was calculated correctly. In 
any event Im not currently persuaded that Mr I has been treated fairly.
PIC have said that Mr I is currently receiving a pension of £49,905 a year. PIC have also 
said that if Mr I had decided to start taking his pension in December 2019 then he would now 
be receiving an annual pension of £50,023.
This means that by continuing to defer taking his pension until October 2021, Mr I is now 
receiving a lower annual pension than if he had started to receive his pension in December 
2019, when he first received late retirement illustrations from PIC. In addition, Mr I has 
missed out on pension income that he could have received between December 2019 and 
October 2021. I dont think this is fair or reasonable.
I think that Mr I had been lead to believe through the retirement illustrations that he received 
from PIC in December 2019 that he would be receiving more annual pension by deferring 
taking his pension (as would be common), but this has not been the case.
In PICs final response to Mr Is complaint they said: As advised in our response sent 24 
September 2021, we are unable to provide an explanation as to why the late retirement 
process is disadvantageous as we do not believe this is the case. If you were to defer your 
pension you would receive a top up of benefits to account for the years your pension has 
been deferred.
However, I think that the late retirement process has been disadvantageous to Mr I, as he is 
now receiving a slightly lower annual pension than would be the case if he had not continued 
to defer, and he has missed out on annual income whilst he deferred.
I also think that the retirement illustrations that Mr I received in December 2019 did mislead 
him into thinking that he would receive a much higher annual pension if he continued to 
defer his retirement age.
I am therefore upholding Mr Is complaint and think that PIC now need to put things right for 
him.
Putting things right
I think had Mr I understood that by deferring taking his pension after December 2019 he 
would be receiving a lower annual pension, in addition to having missed pension income 
whilst he was deferring, then he would not have continued to defer his pension. Instead, I 
think that Mr I would have taken his pension in December 2019, when he first received late 
retirement illustrations from PIC.
I therefore think that its fair and reasonable that PIC now put Mr I back in the position that 
he wouldve been had he started to receive his PIC pension in December 2019.
PIC need to calculate how much net pension income Mr I would have received to date of 
settlement, if he had started to receive his PIC pension in December 2019.
PIC will then need to calculate how much net pension income Mr I has actually received 
from PIC since he started to receive his pension in October 2021 to date of settlement. The 
difference is Mr Is past loss and should be paid to Mr I.In addition, PIC should also pay interest to Mr I on this loss, calculated from December 2019 
to the date of settlement at 8% simple. Where interest is being added at 8% simple per 
annum, this is likely to be subject to tax. If PIC deducts tax, it should tell Mr I how much it 
has taken off. It should also give Mr I a certificate showing this, if requested by Mr I, so he 
may reclaim the tax, if appropriate.
PIC have said that the annual pension that Mr I would be receiving now if he had retired in 
December 2019 is more than the annual pension that he is currently receiving. PIC therefore 
also need compensate Mr I for this.
PIC should therefore either:
Purchase an additional annuity for Mr I, in the same format as the original, sufficient 
to make up for the difference in future income caused by their error, or:
Pay Mr I a lump sum equal to the purchase price of an annuity (again in the same 
format as the original) sufficient to make up the difference in future income caused by 
their error.
PIC should provide Mr I will full details of their calculations in completing the above. Finally, 
PIC have offered Mr I £50 in compensation for the confusion caused to Mr I. I believe that a 
figure of £350 is a more appropriate sum to compensate Mr I for the distress and 
inconvenience that I believe he has suffered.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold Mr Is complaint against Pension Insurance 
Corporation plc and Pension Insurance Corporation plc should compensate Mr I as detailed 
above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr I and PIC have responded to my provisional decision. Mr I has said that hes in 
agreement with the provisional decision. PIC have said that they accept the outcome of my 
provisional decision. 
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision, and no new information or evidence 
has been presented to me, my decision remains the same.
Putting things right
PIC now need to compensate Mr I as detailed in my provisional decision above.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Is complaint against Pension Insurance Corporation plc 
and Pension Insurance Corporation plc should compensate Mr I as detailed in my 
provisional decision above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Ian Barton
Ombudsman