DRN-4020344
The complaint
C complains that it was caused a loss on a currency payment made by HSBC UK Bank Plc 
(HSBC).
What happened
On 31 May 2022, C made a payment of EUR 32,000 to a beneficiary in Europe. The GBP
equivalent was £27,875.17. On 6 June 2022, the payment was returned and Cs account
was credited with £26,873.43  a loss of £1,001.74.
C complained. It said that to stand the loss wasnt fair. The payment had apparently been
returned due to a glitch in the banking system  and C didnt see why it should have to
carry the loss. C said HSBC shouldve contacted it when the payment was returned and
taken instructions as to what to do with it. If that had happened, the exchange loss wouldnt
have occurred. Cs director said she called HSBC when the payment was returned  and
had to wait for three hours to get through to HSBC. Because of that, Cs director said C
suffered a loss of income of £400.
HSBC sent two final responses. The first said that a payment had been made to C from the
overseas beneficiary, and it wasnt a return of Cs original payment. C then questioned that
and HSBC sent another final response. This said the payment was returned as a direct
payment from the receiving bank. The only other detail they had was that it was returned for
regulatory reasons. HSBC said the return was of no fault of their own, or error, and
therefore didnt agree to pay the exchange loss. HSBC apologised for the issues C had in
contacting them and said they paid compensation of £50 by credit to Cs account.
C didnt agree and brought its complaint to us. Our investigator said HSBC acted in line with
their processes for returned payments. The payment had been sent back for regulatory
reasons by the beneficiary bank. HSBC had no control over that. Due to the volumes of
payment returns, HSBC couldnt be expected to contact customers about them. And they
acted in line with their terms and conditions  which said the cost of any return had to be
paid by customers. During our investigation, HSBC offered increased compensation of £100.
C didnt agree an asked that an ombudsman look at its complaint.
I then reached a provisional decision which said:
Let me say here that this service exists to resolve individual disputes between customers
and financial businesses. We arent the regulator of HSBC  thats the Financial Conduct
Authority (FCA). So  we dont tell businesses to change their policies or practices. So 
here, its for HSBC to make its own commercial decisions as to how it runs its payments
business. But we do say if a customer has, or hasnt, been dealt with fairly and reasonably 
based on the individual circumstances of their complaint.
Looking at the crux of Cs complaint  that it shouldnt have to bear the exchange loss  I
looked at HSBCs business banking terms and conditions. And these do say  where a
payment is returned  for any reason  the cost must be borne by customers. They say: If
the payment is returned to us or we cant make it for any reason, well reverse it using the
HSBC Exchange Rate at that time. If the rate has changed, the amount we pay back when
we reverse the payment will be different to the amount we originally took from your account.
C has argued that its unfair that these terms and conditions are used in this way  and
HSBC should exercise some judgment. And in Cs case, HSBC shouldve contacted it to ask
how to deal with the returned amount  for example, by sending it back again or putting it
into a euro account.
We asked HSBC about both aspects  as they are linked. And they told us that it simply isnt
part of HSBCs processes to do that, nor is it practical to contact customers as C suggests 
because of the volumes involved. And I think that is a reasonable thing for HSBC to say in
this case. And in making a provisional decision here, I also dont think I can override HSBCs
terms and conditions. Therefore, C must stand the exchange loss.
But  I do think HSBC should do more to settle Cs complaint. I say that on several counts:
Confusion over final response: I looked at HSBCs first response. This said the payment
hadnt been returned but was a separate payment made by the beneficiary and not a
rejection or return of your initial payment. In fact, this was wrong. And HSBC corrected that
in their second final response. But  C had to contact HSBC after the first erroneous
response to find out what had happened. And in HSBCs second response, it wouldve been
helpful if they had explained the reason for the return  E.g. that it was returned by the
beneficiary bank for regulatory reasons. But they didnt.
Confusion over the reason for the return: HSBC told us - and I have seen evidence  that the
payment was returned for regulatory reasons and it was returned by the beneficiary bank.
But C then showed us that another member of HSBCs management advised her that it was
returned by an intermediary bank. HSBC looked into this and reconfirmed it was returned by
the beneficiary bank. HSBC couldnt explain why C had been so informed. But  this caused
confusion on the part of C.
Wait times on the phone: C said it took three hours to get through to HSBC to ask what had
happened. We havent asked for evidence of this but I dont doubt what C has said here.
Payment of compensation: In HSBCs final response, they said theyd credited Cs account
with compensation of £50  for the wait times on the call. But due to an error, this wasnt
done. HSBC therefore increased the offer to £100 in recognition of that. But  there was an
error here which Im taking into account when deciding on the outcome.
In summary, HSBC were entitled to charge the return to Cs account in the way they did. And
it is reasonable for the exchange loss to be borne by C. But there were some service issues
in the way HSBC dealt with Cs complaint - there were errors in HSBCs final response;
confusion over the reason for the returned payment; an error in the payment of
compensation and a long wait time on the phone.
For these aspects, I think its reasonable that HSBC pay a higher amount of compensation -
£200. This to include the £100 offered and not paid. I know that this is less than C was
hoping for - but Im confident that it is the right outcome in the circumstances of this
complaint.Responses to the provisional decision:
 
HSBC broadly accepted the provisional decision. But C didnt. It said (in summary):
C was blameless for what happened. It wasnt fair that C should stand the loss, 
despite what HSBCs terms and conditions say.
HSBC should have a process to contact customers when such a payment is 
returned, rather than converting the euros back to sterling and debiting the bank 
account.
The euros should have been converted back to sterling at the same rate they were 
sold at  so no loss to C.
C suffered a loss of income of £400  because of the time spent on the phone 
contacting HSBC.
I now need to consider these points and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the passionate responses from C  which Ive considered.
Cs main point is about fairness, which I understand. But - I must make a balanced decision 
based on all the evidence Ive seen. Id like to make the point that we are not a
consumer body  we are an independent body and we dont take sides. We listen to both 
sides of a complaint, take evidence from both parties, and then decide on a fair and 
reasonable outcome  for both parties. And thats what Ive done here.
HSBCs terms and conditions and processes are important aspects here. The terms and 
conditions are clear. And  our service doesnt have the power to tell HSBC to change its 
processes  which, as the provisional decision said, were to re-debit Cs account with the 
sterling equivalent and at the current rate of exchange. And  its also not in HSBCs 
processes to contact every customer where a payment is returned  for the reasons I set 
out.
I thought about the loss of income suffered by C. As a principle, our service doesnt meet 
loss of earnings  whether for personal customers or businesses. So  Im afraid thats not 
something we can consider.
I know C will ultimately be disappointed by my final decision, but I also hope it appreciates 
my reasoning here.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc must:
Pay compensation of £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman