DRN-4227110
The complaint
Mrs B complains National Westminster Bank Plc agreed to a payment arrangement and has 
been incorrectly requested higher payments towards her credit card. Shes said these events 
and the correspondence shes received have affected her health.
What happened
Mrs B holds a credit card account with NatWest. In 2022 she raised a number of complaints 
about its handling of her account. 
This complaint I am deciding came about from one of these complaints and relates to 
NatWests handling of a payment arrangement and correspondence sent in relation to 
payments due to the account. 
I note that my Ombudsman colleagues have made a number of findings within recent final 
decisions, some details of which Mrs B has looked to raise again within this complaint. And I 
note Mrs B has referred to NatWest reinvestigating this complaint; and that it has offered 
further compensation. However, Ive seen the details of the more recent complaint Mrs B 
made to NatWest, which has also been referred to our service for review, and is being dealt 
with under a separate reference with both NatWest and our service. Ive noted that this more 
recent complaint does consist of new issues and some previously raised complaint points. 
However, NatWests additional payment of compensation doesnt relate to the complaint 
points Im consider under this complaint. 
So, Im satisfied I can go on to fairly decide this case, and for clarity my decision here solely 
covers the actions of NatWest in its management of the payment arrangement and 
subsequent correspondence requesting payment to Mrs Bs credit card. 
Mrs B made this complaint about a payment arrangement and ongoing collection activities in 
May 2023. NatWest didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint in relation to the payment arrangement 
and collection of the outstanding balance. It did however acknowledge the length of time it 
had taken to investigate and issue its final response; and confirmed it would make a 
payment of £50 to Mrs B to reflect this. Unhappy with NatWests response Mrs B brought her 
complaint to our service for review.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. She considered NatWest had 
made it reasonably clear to Mrs B how the payment arrangement would work; and that she 
would continue to receive requests for higher payments towards the outstanding debt while 
in the arrangement. She also asked NatWest to reissue the payment of £50 it had offered 
within its final response which Mrs B had said she hadnt received. 
Mrs B didnt accept our investigators outcome as she felt her complaint hadnt been 
answered. Mrs B wanted further consideration of complaint points shed not already referred 
to NatWest; and wanted our investigator to acknowledge certain points that she considered 
key to her complaint. Our investigator explained why her outcome had considered the 
original complaint brought to us and considered by NatWest. Mrs B continued to raise further 
points and make further arguments, but our investigator explained why her outcome 
remained unchanged. 
Mrs B asked for an ombudsman review, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing to Mrs B. It appears shes had long running disputes 
with NatWest about various issues relating to the management of her credit card and 
repayment of the outstanding debt; and its clear shes heavily invested in this complaint. 
While Mrs B has asked for specific questions to be answered, much like my Ombudsman 
colleagues before me who have issued decisions on her other cases, Ive focused my 
investigation and decision on what I consider to be the main crux and key points to this 
complaint originally brought to us and considered by NatWest.
The main crux of Mrs Bs complaint is that NatWest continued to set out via her monthly 
credit card statements the minimum contractual monthly repayments due; and that these 
minimum payments were at a higher level than the agreed arrangement entered into 
between February and May 2023. Mrs B also feels NatWests correspondence was 
threatening as it also issued Notice of Sums In Arrears letters demanding repayment of the 
overdue balance. 
As part of my review Ive listened to the call between Mrs B and NatWest from February 
2023 when the payment arrangement was agreed. The call discussed details relating to the 
level of payment for the arrangement, an estimate of the total arrears that will accrue by the 
end of the three-month arrangement period, and that the situation will be reviewed at the end 
of the three-month period and could be extended at that time. 
Towards the end of the call the NatWest representative confirms to Mrs B that she will 
continue to receive monthly statements setting out the contractual minimum payment due, 
which will be higher than the payment arrangement that has been agreed. The 
representative confirms Mrs B can ignore these minimum payment requests for the following 
three months while the agreed payment arrangement is in place as this replaces it. 
The NatWest representative also confirms Mrs B may receive letters stating her account is in 
arrears during this period. The representative confirms its a regulatory responsibility for 
NatWest to send these, but Mrs B can ignore these while in the arrangement; and that while 
within the payment arrangement all interest and charges are stopped, and this arrangement 
wont be reported to credit reference agencies. 
Ive also seen a copy of the letter template Mrs B was sent following this call. And Ive seen 
a copy of the letter sent to Mrs B on 27 May 2023 when a payment arrangement was agreed 
for a further three months. The letters confirm the details that were provided by NatWests 
representative on the phone. So, I cant agree that NatWest made an error when sending 
Mrs B her monthly statements setting out the contractual minimum payment due; or Notices 
of Sums in Arrears letters. 
Im sorry to hear Mrs B has said her health has suffered as a result of receiving these letters. 
As Ive found above, I consider NatWest reasonably made Mrs B aware she would receive these letters and that she could disregard any request for payment while her account was in 
the agreed payment arrangement period. So, it follows I dont consider NatWest need to 
compensate Mrs B for the distress she says these letters caused.
Within its final response NatWest offered Mrs B a payment of £50 to reflect the timescales 
taken to investigate her complaint. I consider this offer fairly reflects the timescales involved 
and the inconvenience caused by the delay. 
It therefore follows, for the reasons set out above, that I dont consider NatWest need to take 
any further action in resolution of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc doesnt need to take any further 
action than it already has in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman