DRN-3490604
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) approved an overdraft 
facility that was unaffordable and acted unfairly by continuing to apply charges to their 
account when they were in financial difficulty.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P complained to Santander about charges applied to their overdraft and that 
they were told by an advisor the only option available to help was a loan which Santander 
refused. Santander says all charges were applied correctly in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account and wouldve been shown on statements sent out and declined to 
give Mr and Mrs P their behavioural scoring information as it was business sensitive. 
Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to this service where an adjudicator thought we could 
only look at the charges applied to their account from May 2015. The adjudicator was of the 
view that Santander acted unfairly when it continued charging overdraft fees from 1 February 
2020 because by this point Mr and Mrs P hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance for an 
extended period of time and there was no longer enough savings in their accounts to clear 
the overdraft balance. 
Following this Santander agreed to settle the complaint in line with our adjudicators view by:
Refunding fees and interest between 1 February 2020 and October 2021 and apply 
8% interest to that amount;
It will apply the above amount to the balance currently held in Financial Support. As 
the refund will not clear the balance owed Mr and Mrs P will need to contact its 
Financial Support Team to set an arrangement;
It will amend the credit file as appropriate.
Mr and Mrs P didnt wish to accept this offer  they say the funds in the savings account 
were for business purposes and cant see why we cant go back the full six years and have 
asked for an ombudsman decision.
Why I cant look back before May 2015
The rules applying to this service say that, I cant look at a complaint made more than six 
years after the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the 
complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. 
This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Mr and Mrs P raised their complaint in May 2021. Six years before they raised their 
complaint is May 2015. And as Mr and Mrs P had an overdraft facility and the charges 
applied to this wouldve been notified to them at the time they were being applied, I think 
they ought to have known enough to decide whether they were unfair or causing financial 
difficulty. So, I dont think that three years from when Mr and Mrs P ought to be reasonably 
aware they had reason to complain provides them with a longer period than the six year rule. 
So, I will only be looking at the affordability of their overdraft and charges applied from May 
2015.
I can still look into Mr and Mrs Ps complaint outside this time if Im satisfied the failure to 
complain earlier was due to exceptional circumstances, but as they havent made me aware 
of any exceptional circumstances I will only be looking at their account activity from May 
2015.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, to be clear my decision only addresses the fairness of the charges applied to Mr and 
Mrs Ps account and the affordability of it after May 2015. 
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Santander has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr and Mrs P is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been charged the fees and given the 
credit they shouldnt have.
So where a business continues to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should 
have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This 
means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit 
from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. 
And in this case after a detailed review of Mr and Mrs Ps statements, Im in agreement with 
our adjudicator that by February 2020 it was clear Mr and Mrs Ps overdraft was 
unsustainable as their account hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance over a number of 
months. 
I understand that when deciding on the point in time that Santander shouldve stepped in to 
help our adjudicator took into consideration funds held in a savings account in the name of 
Mr P. Mr and Mrs P have explained that the funds in that account werent savings but were 
in fact business loans and the money wasnt available for them to pay down their overdraft.
I accept this might well have been the case but even dismissing this account  and the funds 
held within it - Im still in agreement with our adjudicator about the date Santander shouldve 
stepped in. I say this as having a long and detailed look at the account statements in 
question they present a somewhat chaotic picture with numerous cash transfers in and out. I 
dont think it can be said from the statements alone that it was clear Mr and Mrs P were in 
financial difficulty, rather than a mismanagement of their financial affairs. 
Although Mr and Mrs Ps account was overdrawn the majority of the time this in itself doesnt 
necessarily mean they were in financial difficulty or that the overdraft was unaffordable. The 
statements show in 2016 there were payments in the thousands to a travel agency, auction 
and jewellery purchases and large cash withdrawals. While from 2017 to 2019 there were also large cash withdrawals, payments by cheque and transfers out  some of which were 
clearly to pay bills and credit cards, while others - and Im not seeking to make retrospective 
value judgements over their expenditure - are significant and at times large amounts of non-
committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions. All of which couldve bought the 
overdraft right down and eventually paid it off. 
So besides utilising their overdraft between 2015 and 2019 there isnt anything else on the 
statements such as returned payments, which ought to have alerted Santander to any 
potential financial difficulty. However, from early January 2020 there were less discretionary 
transactions out of the account and the balance wasnt reducing and so this is why Im in 
agreement with our adjudicator that Santander shouldve stepped in from 1 February 2020.
Santander have told us that Mr and Mrs P are left with an outstanding debt, once all 
adjustments have been made, and theyve been refunded all of the interest, fees and 
charges caused by their overdraft from February 2020. So while Mr and Mrs P have been 
left with a balance and they might be unhappy with this, Santander has offered to do what Id 
normally expect it to do here.
I understand Mr and Mrs P are unhappy about having negative information recorded on their 
credit files. But Santander are under a duty to report factually accurate information to the 
credit reference agencies it subscribes to on the way Mr and Mrs P manage their accounts  
so amending their file to show the corrective action Santander takes is necessary.
So Im satisfied that what Santander has already agreed to do to put things right for Mr and 
Mrs P is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not requiring it to 
do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mr and Mrs P to decide whether they wish to 
accept Santanders offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Santander UK Plc has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Mr and Mrs P is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
case. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman