DRN-2456506
The complaint
Mr E complains that Ulster Bank Ltd wont refund payments he says he didnt make from his 
account.
What happened
Mr E told Ulster Bank that he didnt make 172 payment using his card online between 24 
February 2019 and 19 March 2019. These came to a total of £756.43 and seemed to relate 
to app and gaming purchases. 
Ulster Bank said it wouldnt be refunding this money. This had been the fifth claim of fraud 
that Mr E had made since September 2018. And the pattern of transactions wasnt 
consistent with that of a fraudster. Either Mr E had made the payments, or he had allowed 
someone else to.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr E had been working 
abroad and travelling to a number of countries in South East Asia. His replacement cards 
had been sent to his mothers address in this country. And she had sent a copy of the card 
and the security details using a messaging service. Mr E was certain that there was no 
possibility his mother had used or allowed the card details to be used by anyone else. His 
card was kept in a wallet that no one else had access to. And Mr E had his phone secured 
with a password and his girlfriend didnt have access to this and nor did he suspect her of 
using the details either.
Mr E explained that he had been on a trip to a different country to where he worked abroad 
between 1 and 8 February 2019. And he believed his card details may have been 
discovered then. But our investigator said that the records from Ulster Bank showed that the 
payments disputed here had been made with a new card number issued on 20 February 
2019. And it wouldnt have been possible for those details to have been found out or 
guessed by someone who had only had his previous card details.
Ulster Bank had shown that the payments were authenticated with the correct details. There 
was no link between the card details used here and any of the trips and use of Mr Es card 
that hed mentioned. And his phone hadnt been lost until June 2019 and was secured. It 
wasnt possible to see how an unknown third party had discovered the card details. There 
was a significantly greater balance available on his account at the time compared to the level 
of the disputed payments. And some of those payments were refunded which didnt make 
sense. It was concerning that Mr E had made five fraud claims. And as Mr E was clear that 
the card itself was secure and no one known to him could have used it our investigator 
concluded it was most likely Mr E had authorised the payments.
Mr E didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that he found it 
extremely insulting when it was said that he made the payments himself. He said it wasnt 
likely that hed have pursued this complaint in this way if he had done so. Mr E thought that 
because Ulster Bank wouldnt refund the payments the easiest thing to do had been to 
blame him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, with the card details. And if they werent authorised   
Mr E wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of how these payments were made?
- Did Mr E either authorise the payments on the account, or allow someone else to use 
the card as Ulster Bank says?
Im satisfied that these payments were authenticated with the correct card details. And I note 
that the card number used ending in four digits 8056 was one that had been posted to       
Mr Es mothers address on 20 February 2019 after he had reported fraud on his previous 
card ending 0691. 
The first payment using this card was made on 24 February 2019 online. It is one that Mr E 
disputes and I cant see any record of use of the card details before this time. As our 
investigator has mentioned some payments were refunded on 19 March 2019 which appears 
odd. Ulster Bank records that the card was cancelled on 21 March 2019 after Mr E had 
made some genuine payments on 18 and 20 March 2019.
The disputed payments as has been said all seemed to relate to gaming apps and related 
purchases. Notably Mr E had made a similar claim for five transactions of that type on his 
previous card between 10 and 16 February 2019. That time Ulster Bank refunded him with 
£115.23.
Mr E had described the unusual way that he obtained his new card details. And that was by 
his mother sending him the details of the card. From what he says an encrypted messaging 
service was used. And I will rely on Mr Es clear assurances about the security of his card 
details when handled by his mother. An obvious route for a fraudster would have been if 
somehow the actual card had been seen by someone else. But that is something he said 
didnt happen. And as Mr E explains that his mother received a PIN too  this might have led 
to physical use of the card with the PIN being possible. In addition, Mr E had already been 
subject to four frauds and I accept what he says about the likely care now being taken. 
There is no evidence his phone was accessed, or his messaging service compromised here. 
Mr E is just as emphatic about the trustworthiness of his girlfriend.
I do consider that the pattern of payments is unusual for a third-party fraudster to carry out. 
The value of the payments ranged from £1.60 to £79.91. As our investigator has said Mr E 
had a significant balance  which Ive noted was of over £5,000 in his account. The 
payments are consistent with someone likely accessing these games online over an 
extended period. And clearly not with a fraudster trying to get as much money as quickly as 
possible and trying to avoid the risk of detection.
Ive noted from the online banking logs that Mr E didnt log on to his account from 20 
February 2019 to 14 March 2019 and thats consistent with him not seeing the transactions. 
But he did access his statement on that date and the payments continued.I wont be able to say exactly what happened here and Im thinking about what is most likely. 
I dont see how an unknown third party could have obtained Mr Es new card details before 
he started using them. The pattern of payments seemed similar to a previous fraud claim 
and not consistent with the most likely actions of a fraudster  although I appreciate the 
transactions did build up to a significant sum at stake here for Mr E over time.
Mr E is also adamant that no one known to him could have made the payments without his 
knowledge. And so, Im afraid to me that leaves either Mr E making them himself or him 
allowing someone else to do so as the most likely explanation. As a result, I think that Ulster 
Bank could reasonably conclude that Mr E had authorised the payments and was 
responsible for them. I fully appreciate in light of his comments about what our investigator 
said how disappointed he will be with my conclusions here too.
I dont have a reasonable basis to require Ulster Bank to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman