DRN-3989345
The complaint
Mr F complains about the professionalism and the quality of the advice provided to him by 
Pension Advice Specialists Limited (PAS) in regard to his preserved defined benefit 
pension scheme benefits.
What happened
In around April 2021 Mr F was considering transferring two deferred defined benefit (DB) 
schemes he had. He considered the pensions both schemes were forecast to provide him at 
the schemes normal retirement dates (NRD) to be poor in comparison to their cash 
equivalent transfer values (CETV) of £264,401.38 and £54,882.17. 
Mr F approached his financial adviser to discuss transferring his two schemes but it didnt 
possess the necessary regulatory permissions to advise on DB scheme transfers so it 
referred him to PAS. 
PAS completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Fs circumstances and objectives. 
It noted the following: 
Mr F was aged 59 and his wife was aged 70.
Mr F was employed earning an annual salary of £55,000 and he was currently also in 
receipt of a small DB pension of £120 per month. In all, Mr F had a monthly income 
of £3,164. Mrs F received a state pension.
Mr and Mrs F owned their own home which was valued at £260,000 with an 
outstanding mortgage of £56,009.
Mr and Mrs Fs current monthly outgoings were noted as being £2,188. In retirement 
they expected this figure to fall to £1,020 per month. Their desired monthly income in 
retirement was noted as being £1,500 per month. 
Mr F had three DB schemes. The one paying him £120 per month and the two he 
wished to transfer. 
Mr F also belonged to his current employers defined contribution (DC) pension 
where he contributed 5% of his salary per month and his employer contributed 4%. It 
had a current fund value of £58,000. 
Mr F had minimal investment experience, a low-medium attitude to risk and a low 
capacity for loss. 
PAS also undertook two Transfer Value Comparator Analysis (TVC) reports which showed 
the cost of obtaining a comparable level of income from a personal pension provider to that 
provided by the DB schemes. To buy the same level of income to match the benefits from 
DB scheme 1 it would cost £413,523.19 at age 62 (the schemes NRD) or £388,722.78 at 
age 59. To buy the same level of income to match the benefits provided by DB scheme 2 it 
would cost £103,766.87 at age 65 (the schemes NRD) and £95,690.95 at age 59. The 
report also showed that the first scheme he wished to transfer was forecast to provide him 
with an income at the schemes NRD of 62 of £8,245.77, reducing to £6,683.41 if taken at 
age 59. The second scheme was forecast to provide a pension at NRD (age 65) of 
£2,459.79 per year reducing to £1,788.11 if taken at age 59. Both schemes had the option to 
commute some of the pension to take a tax-free lump sum and a reduced pension.
On 3 June 2021, PAS issued Mr F with its suitability report and advised him to retain his DB 
pension schemes, not to transfer them. In summary, PAS reasons for its recommendation 
were:-
That the TVCs showed that the capital value of the benefits in the two DB schemes 
were significantly higher than the CETV offered. 
If Mr F transferred out he was unlikely to match the DB scheme benefits he would be 
giving up.
That the cash flow forecasts showed the transferred schemes would potentially run 
out before Mr F died.
The two schemes offered him a guaranteed income for life and given he had a 
shortfall in income in retirement, both schemes would help him bridge the shortfall 
without exposing him to investment risk. 
Death benefits were of an overall higher value in both schemes than they would be if 
they were transferred. 
Mr F had minimal investment experience and a low capacity for loss and his capital 
requirement was a want rather than a need.
By retaining his two schemes he could still achieve his objectives.
PAS charged Mr F £5,040 for the advice. 
Disappointed with the outcome of the advice he received from PAS, Mr F challenged it. Mr F 
said initially that the level of income offered by the two schemes was minimal and that he 
was unlikely to still be around into his nineties to benefit from it. And he said he and Mrs F 
needed capital to live an active and fulfilling life now whilst they still could. 
PAS responded to explain that the starting position was that DB scheme transfers were 
unsuitable and would only be recommended if it could be shown to be in a consumers best 
interests. PAS explained there was a shortfall in income both up to, and beyond, state 
retirement age, given Mr Fs desired retirement income of £1,500 per month. PAS said that, 
unfortunately, it wasnt possible for it to recommend a transfer where it would be 
recommending he give up his only source of guaranteed retirement income (other than his 
state pension). 
Unhappy with PASs response, Mr F raised a complaint. Mr F said the advice he received 
was of poor quality and lacked professionalism. He also said that the recommendation, 
advice and documents provided were standard and designed to placate the regulator  the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  rather than representing a piece of proper independent 
advice which took account of his needs. He said too that he was concerned that the 
documents and emails PAS sent him had repeatedly used the incorrect names of his two DB 
schemes. Finally, Mr F said he had paid a very large fee for a cut and paste exercise which 
ensured the FCAs default position  namely that DB scheme transfers were unsuitable  
was adhered to. 
PAS looked into Mr Fs complaint but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it had 
previously apologised for any documentation errors and had issued revised corrected 
reports to him but it apologised for these mistakes again. PAS said that any mistakes in the 
documents didnt impact the outcome of the advice or the content of the reports. PAS 
accepted that its documentation contained an element of repetition but pointed out that it 
was specific to his circumstances and based on the information hed provided. PAS said that 
whilst the outcome of the advice wasnt what Mr F had hoped, it had been unable to identify 
any unprofessionalism by its team. PAS said too that its fee was fixed and non-contingent and was highlighted to Mr F at the 
outset of the process. It went on to say that despite being required by the FCA to start any 
DB transfer advice from the position that it was unsuitable, it had still considered all the 
information it had about Mr F and based its advice on his circumstances. PAS refuted that its 
reports were cut and paste and said they too were specific to Mr F. 
Mr F then complained to this service. He explained clearly that his complaint was about the 
quality of the advice and lack of professionalism on the part of PAS and not about the 
outcome of the advice he received (despite him being unhappy about that). 
Our Investigator looked into Mr Fs complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. Our 
Investigator also explained that whilst considering Mr Fs complaint about the quality of the 
advice he received, he would also consider whether he agreed with the advice PAS gave 
him not to transfer his two DB schemes. Overall our Investigator said he thought PAS had 
provided Mr F with advice that was in his best interests. He thought too that PAS hadnt 
stopped Mr F from transferring  just that it wouldnt be able to go against its own 
recommendation and arrange that for him. Our Investigator thought that whilst the outcome 
wasnt what Mr F wanted, PAS had fulfilled its responsibility to him by providing advice and 
explaining why it couldnt recommend a transfer. Finally he said PASs fee, and its terms, 
were made clear at the outset of the process and that he advice he received hadnt fallen 
below the standard he would expect to see. 
Mr F disagreed with our Investigators findings. He said transferring was now almost 
impossible to achieve given he had a certificate of advice that stated the advice hed been 
given was not to transfer. Mr F thought it was disingenuous of our Investigator to suggest 
therefore that PAS hadnt stopped him from transferring his DB schemes. Mr F went on to 
say that PAS ensured the FCAs position on transfers was supported so he thought our 
Investigator had been wrong to state that PAS wasnt an order taker. Mr F repeated that he 
wasnt complaining about the advice, just the lack of professionalism. So he said any review 
of PAS advice by our Investigator had somewhat diluted the point he was trying to make. 
Finally, Mr F said that if hed received a professional service  such as he had recently from 
another adviser - he would not have disputed the outcome. 
Our Investigator thought about what Mr F had said but wasnt persuaded to change his mind. 
He said it was hard to transfer a DB scheme without a positive recommendation but this was 
no fault of PASs. And he agreed that PAS had to abide by the rules laid down by the FCA, 
not dismiss them in favour of what the consumer preferred to do. He said too that hed had 
to consider what had caused Mr F to complaint and that was the advice Mr F received. 
Finally our Investigator said that the service Mr F received elsewhere had no bearing on his 
complaint against PAS. 
The complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this is a complaint that should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
I appreciate that Mr F is complaining about the quality of the advice he received from PAS 
and that he is also unhappy about a perceived lack of its professionalism. So Im not going to 
look into detail here about the actual advice Mr F was given by PAS. But I cant ignore either 
the fact that the advice Mr F received was what caused him to complain. If PAS had recommended Mr F transfer his DB schemes, concluding that doing so was in his best 
interests, this complaint, in its current form, would unlikely be before me now. 
The regulator, the FCA, states in COBS 19.1.6G that the starting assumption for a transfer 
from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, it was from this point that PAS had to begin to 
consider the two transfers; and it could only consider recommending them if it could clearly 
demonstrate that they were in Mr Fs best interests. 
In essence, this means that PAS is required by the regulator to only recommend a transfer if 
it could clearly demonstrate that it was in Mr Fs best interests. And part of that process 
involves not just transacting what Mr F might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr F needed and recommend what was in his best interests. 
And I think that PAS was able to demonstrate in its suitability report and TVCs that by 
transferring, Mr F was very likely to obtain lower overall retirement benefits  something 
which wasnt outweighed by any specific reason that could justify the transfer. 
Thats not to say that I dont appreciate Mr Fs frustration; the pensions are his and so he 
feels that he has the right to do with them as he pleases. However, a pension is primarily 
designed to provide an income in retirement and the FCA requires advisers to give 
consumers advice that is in their best interests in order to protect them from making choices 
that could have a detrimental effect on their long-term retirement income needs. And whilst I 
accept that PASs recommendation will have come as a disappointment to Mr F, I cant 
reasonably conclude that it treated him unfairly in the way it advised him or the conclusions it 
reached. PAS provided Mr F with advice and explained why it couldnt recommend the 
transfers  it was under no obligation to carry out Mr Fs instructions and go against its own 
advice. So whilst I appreciate Mr Fs disappointment, I cant say the advice of itself was 
unsuitable.
As stated above however, I understand that the recommendation of itself is what led Mr F to 
complain. 
Mr F says the advice from PAS was of poor quality, lacked professionalism and that the 
recommendation, advice and documents he received were standard and designed to 
placate the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  rather than representing a 
piece of proper independent advice which took account of his needs. The reports he 
received  the two TVCs and the suitability report  are required by the FCA to include 
certain information and detail. So to that extent these reports can, and often do, follow a 
certain format in order to comply with the FCAs regulations. But I can see that the 
information in all of them is personal to Mr F and his circumstances, has been based on the 
information he provided and which was recorded in the fact-find. 
Ive seen no evidence that the advice Mr F received was of a poor quality or lacked 
professionalism. As Ive already said, I accept the advice didnt facilitate the outcome Mr F 
wanted, but I cant say the advice PAS gave lacked thoroughness, was unprofessional or 
was just a tick box exercise. The suitability report ran to 67 pages and was personal to 
Mr Fs circumstances, needs and objectives. PAS also completed two TVCs along with cash 
flow analysis and other illustrations. The reports and analysis are of the type I expect to see 
when a firm is giving DB transfer advice
Mr F has also said that he was concerned that the documents and emails PAS sent him had 
repeatedly used the incorrect names of his two DB schemes. Whilst there were some 
grammatical errors in some of the documentation PAS sent Mr F, I can see that PAS has 
apologised for its mistakes, corrected the errors and reissued the documents affected. I think 
that was a reasonable response by PAS to this aspect of Mr Fs complaint and I dont 
propose to make it do anything further. Mr F complains too that he has paid a very large fee for a cut and paste service which 
ensured the FCAs default position  namely that DB scheme transfers are unsuitable  was 
adhered to. My comments about the nature of the advice, and PASs compliance with the 
FCAs regulations, have already been set out above, so there is nothing further for me to add 
here about that. It is worth mentioning however, that from 1 October 2020 the FCA stated 
that all new DB transfer advice had to be charged for on a non-contingent basis. In reality 
this means that consumers pay the same price for the advice they receive whether that 
advice is to remain in, or transfer from, their DB scheme.
I can see that PAS provided Mr F with a copy of its Terms of Business at the start of the 
advice process. I can see too that this included a section on Fees and Payment where it is 
stated: In consideration for the provision of the Service, the Client shall pay PASL the fees 
in accordance with Schedule 1The Client accepts that they are ultimately responsible for 
the payment of fees to PASL In Schedule 1 of the Terms of Business it states that before 
the start of the service being provided PAS requires the client to sign a copy of those Terms 
and it requires payment of the fee (as detailed in Schedule 2).
I can see that Mr F signed the Terms of Business on 28 April 2021. 
The fees are cited in Schedule 2, where it also states: Please note that the fee payable is 
non-contingent on the advice being provided. The advice given may be toretain benefits 
within the scheme. 
So I am satisfied that there was transparency by PAS around the timing, circumstances, 
requirement for, and amount of, the fee due and that Mr F understood it would need to be 
paid. I accept that paying over £5,000 for advice without obtaining what he wanted was 
disappointing to Mr F. But I think PAS made it clear from the outset that Mr F would be liable 
for the fee regardless, even if it ended up advising him against transferring his pension 
schemes. And Ive explained above why I dont agree that PAS provided Mr F with a cut and 
paste service. Producing TVCs, cashflow analysis and a suitability report are not without 
cost  and actuarial input is required in their production  so I cant say it was unreasonable 
of PAS to charge for the service it provided either. 
Finally, I note Mr Fs point that transferring is now almost impossible to achieve given he has 
a certificate of advice that states the advice hed been given was not to transfer. I agree with 
Mr F that transferring his schemes will now be very difficult to achieve; but I cant say that 
thats the fault of PAS. I understand that PAS doesnt undertake an insistent client service 
however, its up to PAS, and other financial advisers, to decide which services they are 
prepared to offer. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman