DRN-3686240
The complaint
Mr J complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) have failed to 
provide him with one of the stated benefits of his credit card.
What happened
Mr J holds a Preferred Rewards Gold Card with AESEL. This is a credit card account for 
which an annual fee is paid, and which comes with additional benefits. One of these benefits 
is an account with another company, which provides free access to certain airport lounges 
on two occasions per year.
Mr J says that, on 10 February 2022, he attempted to use his card from that other company 
to gain access to an airport lounge which was part of this scheme. He says that he was 
refused access, and told that the problem was with AESEL.
On 11 February 2022, Mr J contacted AESEL through its online chat service to complain. He 
was given a contact number for the team who dealt directly with the other business, but said 
that they had already been contacted by the airport lounge and that it had been confirmed 
that the issue was with AESEL. The AESEL staff member said that the team was a sun 
division of Amex itself, and that contacting them directly was the quickest way of dealing 
with this problem.
AESEL says that its relevant team contacted the other company, and that it confirmed that 
Mr Js account with them was active and that there was no record of his attempting to 
access the lounge. The other business suggested that, as it is not the lounge owner, other 
customers might have been given priority over Mr J during a busy period.
Mr J considers that AESEL has not provided a benefit for which he has paid. He says that he 
was misled during the online chat into believing that the other company was a subdivision of 
AESEL. The bank agreed that their online chat could have been clearer, and paid him £25 to 
reflect this. But it says that the account with the other company has been provided in line 
with the stated benefits of the account, and access to a specific lounge on a specific day is a 
matter between Mr J and the other company. It says that the account with the other 
company is still active, and can still be used in line with the benefit for which Mr J has paid.
Our investigator did not think that AESEL had acted unreasonably. They agreed that the 
access to the lounge was a matter between Mr J and the other company, rather than 
AESEL.
Mr J did not agree and so this has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at the information which AESELs website provides customers about this 
specific benefit. It makes clear that a membership with another company is being provided, 
and that customer details will have to be shared with that other company in order to allow 
this. Having read notes of contact with that other company in relation to this complaint, I am 
satisfied that this membership has been properly set up and that AESEL has done 
everything that it needs to in order to allow Mr J to use that membership.
In relation to the attempt to use the account on 10 February 2022, I am unable to say why Mr 
J was not granted access to the lounge. He says, and I accept, that he was told by the 
airport lounge and the other company that the issue was with AESEL. But that other 
company has confirmed to AESEL that there is no such issue. The fact that his account does 
not show any attempted access to the lounge on the relevant day suggests that there was 
likely no effort by the airport lounge to check his access rights. I cannot say why this was, 
but, given what the other company have said to AESEL about this, I am satisfied that such 
checks would have shown his membership to be valid and active.
I am satisfied that his membership with the other company has been set up by AESEL as it 
ought to have been. How the other company provides services under that membership is a 
matter between Mr J and that other company. While I can understand Mr Js complaint that 
he is a direct customer of AESEL, this does not mean that it is able to control what the other 
company do. 
I have considered the full online chat between AESEL and Mr J on 11 February 2022. I think 
it is clear that they were speaking at cross purposes. Mr J makes reference to having 
contacted the other companys team already, while the AESEL staff member intended to say 
that the team was a subdivision of AESEL. This was the heart of the confusion. Mr J was 
talking about a team at the other company, while the staff member was talking about an 
AESEL team which deals with that other company. The confusion prevented meaningful 
progress, but I do not think it was in any way unfair or unreasonable that such a mistake was 
made. In any event, having considered the distress and inconvenience which this confusion 
caused, I am satisfied that the £25 already paid properly reflects it.
For some reason, Mr J was denied access to the lounge. There has been speculation about 
possible reasons, but I cannot say that any of them is more likely than not the case. But I 
can say that from the evidence provided, the other company still intends to grant Mr J free 
access to airport lounges under the terms of his membership. Unless and until it becomes 
clear that the other company does not intend to honour the agreed two free visits to an 
airport lounge, I do not think that AESEL can step in.
I can certainly understand Mr Js frustration at having been denied access to the airport 
lounge on 10 February 2022  it would have been very disappointing for him. But as Ive said 
that access was not in AESELs control, nor did it hold itself out as being in control of that 
access. In line with the stated benefits of the credit card, AESEL has provided a membership 
with another company. 
I am satisfied that the benefit has been made available and that Mr J remains free to make 
use of it in line with the terms of the other company. I am not going to ask AESEL to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023. 
Marc Kelly
Ombudsman