DRN-1153085
The complaint
Mr M complains about delays by Santander UK Plc after he raised a Subject Access 
Request (SAR). Mr M also complains that Santander gave him incorrect information. 
What happened
On July 2019 Mr M got in touch with Santander via its online messaging facility to raise a 
SAR. On 27 July 2019 Mr M contacted Santander again to complain as he hadnt been 
called to arrange the SAR. Santander responded to say it would call Mr M within 48 hours. 
But Mr M didnt receive Santanders call.
Mr M contacted Santander and updated his telephone number. Santander responded to Mr 
Ms complaint on 31 July 2019 but didnt agree it had made an error. It said that to complete 
the SAR process it had to talk with Mr M on a verified telephone number. Because Mr M had 
recently updated his number Santander couldnt complete the SAR.
Mr M referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. During our 
investigation Santander was able to complete the SAR and send it to Mr M. The investigator 
agreed there had been some delays but said Santander needed to talk to Mr M and had to 
do that via a telephone number it could verify. The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. Mr M asked to appeal and said hed been given incorrect information by 
Santander and that he had updated his telephone number. As Mr M asked to appeal, his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that the SAR wasnt carried out within the normal time limits. But Santander says it 
needed to speak with Mr M before completing the SAR. Santander has explained that it 
needs to verify who has requested the SAR which means it has to speak with the person 
making the request. 
In response to the investigator, Mr M says Santander should have been able to proceed 
without talking to him and that its broken the rules. But we arent the regulator and we cant 
tell businesses how to operate. Santander says its process is to verify the person making the 
SAR and I'm satisfied it's entitled to check the recipient's identity. 
Mr M has pointed out that he updated his telephone number with Santander and has asked 
why it still refused to use that number to verify him. But Santander has additional security 
processes in place that mean it cant use a recently updated number for that purpose. Ive 
looked at Santanders policy and Im satisfied that in July 2019 it could only proceed by using 
the number that was recorded on its systems. As Mr M had recently updated his telephone 
number Santander wasnt able to complete the SAR. Im sorry to disappoint Mr M as I can see how strongly he feels in this matter. Whilst I agree 
that some of the information Mr M received could have been clearer, I havent been 
persuaded to uphold this complaint. As Ive said above, Santander needed to verify Mr Ms 
identity to complete the SAR and it uses the phone number recorded on its systems to do 
that. Santander has explained it cant use recently updated telephone numbers for 
verification purposes which is why it wasnt able to use Mr Ms updated details at the end of 
July 2019. Ive considered everything that Mr M has told us about his complaint but I havent 
found that Santander treated him unfairly. As a result, Im not telling Santander to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman