DRN-3514321
The complaint
Miss U complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) is refusing to refund her the amount she lost 
as the result of a scam.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary Miss U started communicating with an individual (X) via Instagram having seen 
X being endorsed on a friends Instagram account stating Miss U could see a return of 
£15,000 following a £2,000 investment. X confirmed Miss U could make a profit if she 
invested with it in Bitcoin.
Convinced by her friends endorsement Miss U decided to make an investment and 
transferred funds to X via cryptocurrency exchanges as directed by X. Miss U was able to 
see her investment growing online. 
Miss U made/attempted to make the following payments into the scam:
Date Merchant Amount
3 March 2022 Simplex £1,000
3 March 2022 Simplex £1,000 returned
3 March 2022 Moonpay £1,000
3 March 2022 Moonpay £1,500
4 March 2022 Moonpay £1,000
4 March 2022 Moonpay £1,000 returned
4 March 2022 Moonpay £1,000
4 March 2022 Moonpay £1,000 returned
4 March 2022 Money Swap £1,000
4 March 2022 Money Swap £1,250
4 March 2022 Money Swap £1,050
It turned out Miss Us friends Instagram account had been hacked as part of the scam so the 
endorsement on her friends account was fake. When Miss U attempted to make a 
withdrawal from the investment and refused to pay any further funds into it, X stopped all 
communication with her, and she was unable to recover any of the payments she had made.
Our Investigator considered Miss Us complaint and thought it should be upheld in part. He 
said that by the time Miss U attempted to make a third payment into the scam, Monzos 
fraud prevention systems should have been triggered and it should have stepped in to have 
a meaningful conversation with Miss U around the purpose of the payments she was 
making. He said that if Monzo had this conversation it was likely it would have uncovered the 
scam and prevented any further payments being made. 
Our Investigator also thought Miss U had contributed to her loss so it would be fair for her to 
share some responsibility. He suggested Monzo pay back the loss Miss U incurred from the 
third payment she attempted less 50%.
Miss U accepted our Investigators view. Monzo disagreed and said it was not responsible for 
any of Miss Us loss. As Monzo disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Methods of recovery
Miss U made payments into the scam via her debit card. For payments that are made by 
debit card Monzos only method of recovery would be via chargeback. But Monzo was 
unable to process a chargeback for the payments Miss U made in relation to this scam.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Miss U was dealing with X, which was the business/person that instigated the scam. But 
Miss U didnt make the debit card payments to X directly, she paid separate cryptocurrency 
exchanges. This is important because Monzo was only able to process chargeback claims 
against the merchant she paid, not another party (such as X).
The service provided by the cryptocurrency exchanges would have been to convert or 
facilitate conversion of Miss Us payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, they provided the 
service that was requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchants Miss U paid. 
Should Monzo have reasonably stepped in to prevent any or all the payments?
Miss U has accepted she authorised the payments that were made from her account with 
Monzo, albeit on Xs instruction. So, the starting point here is that Miss U is responsible. 
However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Monzo should have been aware of the scam and stepped in to 
prevent the payments from being made.
Monzo has told us it has sophisticated fraud prevention systems in place to monitor and 
prevent potentially fraudulent activity on its customers accounts.
I have looked at the payments Miss U made into the scam. On 3 March 2022 Miss U 
attempted to make three payments of £1,000 to new payees she had not previously paid 
using her debit card. Having looked at Miss Us previous account usage I think this activity 
was unusual. Miss U rarely made payments of this size using her debit card from her 
account, or multiple payments in the same day.Considering the uncharacteristic activity on Miss Us account, and that Monzo should have 
been aware at the time of Miss Us payments the FCA and Action Fraud published warnings 
about cryptocurrency scams in mid-2018. I think it would have been reasonable to expect 
Monzo to step in and have a meaningful conversation with Miss U about what these 
payments were in relation to.
Had Monzo had this conversation with Miss U I think its likely she would have explained she 
was making investments in cryptocurrency after seeing information on Instagram promising 
high unrealistic returns, and that she was being led by X into making payments via 
cryptocurrency exchanges. Monzo would likely have considered this type of activity 
commonly associated with scams and would have been able to prevent Miss U from making 
any further payments.
So, I agree with our Investigator that Monzo has missed an opportunity to step in and 
prevent Miss M incurring any further loss from the third payment she attempted.
Contributory negligence
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000).
In the circumstances, I do think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that 
Miss U should share responsibility for what happened. Miss U was an inexperienced
investor and had not previously made investments of this type before. But I think the promise 
of returns of £15,000 after investing just £2,000 should have caused her some concern. I 
also dont think it was reasonable to make such an investment after only seeing an 
endorsement from a friend on social media. I would have expected Miss U to have carried 
out more research on X before parting with her money.
So, I think it would be fair to reduce the compensation due by 50% on the basis that Miss U 
should share responsibility for her loss.
Putting things right
To put things right I require Monzo Bank Ltd to:
Refund all the payments Miss U made made into the scam from the third payment 
attempt of £1,500 on 3 March 2022, less 50% and any refunds received. (a total of 
£2,400) 
Add 8% simple interest per year to the amount it pays Miss U from the time Miss U 
made the payments to the time Monzo Bank Ltd provides the refund (less any 
lawfully deductible tax).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Monzo Bank Ltd to put things right as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss U to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 Terry Woodham
Ombudsman