DRN-2947367
The complaint
Ms M, on behalf of Mrs M, complains about Barclays Bank UK PLCs decision to limit access 
to Mrs Ms account. Ms M says this caused her and Mrs M severe distress and 
embarrassment due to not being able to pay invoices. To put things right, they would like 
compensation.
Mrs Ms complaint is brought by her daughter, Ms M, who has Power of Attorney (PoA).
What happened
Mrs M held an account with Barclays. In March 2019, Ms M provided Barclays with 
documentation to show that she held PoA over Mrs Ms financial affairs. Ms M was added to 
the account.
In August 2019, Barclays received notification from the local council that social services 
were carrying out an investigation linked to Mrs Ms finances. Because of this, Barclays 
limited access to Mrs Ms account  including Ms Ms access as PoA.
Barclays allowed £100 to be withdrawn from Mrs Ms account every week in branch. Ms M 
was caring for her mother, so she went to the branch every week which she said caused her 
inconvenience due to the time it took and the cost for parking. 
Ms M had arranged for renovations to be carried out on Mrs Ms garden to make it more 
comfortable for her when Mrs M returned home after being in care. Ms M had already paid a 
deposit for the works but needed access to Mrs Ms account to pay the final bill. But due to 
the block, she couldnt pay it.  Ms M spoke to Barclays and it took around two weeks for the 
final bill to be paid. Ms M said this caused severe embarrassment for herself and Mrs M 
because she wasnt aware of the block before this. 
Barclays received notification in January 2020 that the review had been completed, and they 
removed the restriction.
Ms M is unhappy because she said Barclays confirmed they would pay for all bills and 
invoices despite the account block. And she thinks the way her mother was treated was 
unreasonable. Ms M explained that Mrs M couldnt get her hair done for Christmas, or buy 
Christmas presents like shed wanted to because of the block so this was an upsetting time. 
Ms M also wants compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to her as an 
individual.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think Barclays had acted unfairly. She 
said Barclays took the appropriate steps to restrict Mrs Ms account when they received the 
notification about the social services investigation and lifted the restriction once the review 
was complete. She also found that Barclays had said theyd pay for welfare costs for Mrs M, 
so she didnt think it was unreasonable that it took some time to pay the bill for the 
renovations on Mrs Ms garden. And our investigator didnt think it was appropriate to 
consider the distress to Ms M, because she wasnt Barclays customer in relation to this 
complaint.
Ms M, on behalf of Mrs M, disagreed. She said Barclays said theyd pay for all invoices and 
jobs on Mrs Ms house, but because they didnt, Mrs M had to stay in a care home for longer. 
Ms M said the garden work was carried out to give Mrs M more privacy when living in her 
front room downstairs. Ms M also disagreed that her financial burden and inconvenience 
couldnt be considered as she was looking after Mrs M at the time and had spent over 100 
hours dealing with things.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mrs Ms complaint. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs M and Ms M, so Ive explained my reasons below.
I appreciate this situation would have been difficult for Mrs M  and Ms M who was caring for 
her and looking after her finances at the time. Especially as Ms M has referred to the 
renovation costs to make life more comfortable for Mrs M when she was able to return 
home. But to uphold Mrs Ms complaint, Id need to be satisfied Barclays acted unfairly when 
suspending the access to Mrs Ms account. And based on the arguments and evidence, I 
dont think they did.
Barclays, like all banks, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet 
their legal and regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Barclays were 
acting in line with these obligations when restricting Mrs Ms account. Barclays were made 
aware that the social services were carrying out an investigation into Mrs Ms finances. 
Because of this, Barclays were under a duty of care to keep Mrs Ms money safe  which 
meant it was necessary to restrict the activity on her account. I recognise how inconvenient 
and troublesome this would have been, but I cant hold Barclays solely responsible for that. 
And thats because other investigations were taking place. 
Once the social services investigation had finished, Barclays removed the blocks from Mrs 
Ms account and Ms M regained access as PoA. Im satisfied Barclays didnt cause any 
undue delays.
Ive carefully considered Ms Ms comments regarding the payments needing to be made 
from Mrs Ms account. Ms M said Barclays confirmed they would pay all bills and invoices  
so Ms M was expecting the house renovations bill to be paid with ease. Ive no reason to 
disbelieve Ms M, but I havent seen any compelling evidence to satisfy me that Barclays did 
say this. Barclays have also provided me with an email sent to Ms M which clearly states;
we would look to pay urgent and essential bills only such as care home fees.
I recognise how important the work was to Ms M  she wanted to ensure her mother had the 
privacy she needed when she returned home, and I can fully understand that. But I can also 
understand why Barclays didnt make the payment straight away. Barclays have confirmed 
the type of bills theyd pay would be similar to those of care home fees. Im aware Barclays 
did honour the payment for the garden renovations, and albeit it took a couple of weeks, I 
think they considered the overall circumstances and made the right decision.
Ms M has explained that the people carrying out the work told the local residents about the 
non-payment which was embarrassing for her and her mother. Im really sorry to hear this, 
and I dont doubt it would have been difficult to deal with. But I cant fairly hold Barclays 
responsible for that. They were under an obligation to protect their customers money, so it was essential they reviewed things before paying out any money from Mrs Ms account. 
Once theyd satisfied themselves that the bill could be paid, they made the transfer as Ms M 
had requested. 
Im also pleased to see that Barclays considered the costs of Mrs Ms daily living and 
allowed a weekly withdrawal of £100 to cover daily expenses. I recognise Ms M had to travel 
to a particular branch to withdraw this money  and that resulted in time, and costs to her as 
an individual which shed like to be compensated for. But as our investigator has explained, I 
cant award compensation to Ms M as the complaint is in the name of Mrs M  and therefore, 
I can only consider the upset caused to her. 
Ive thought carefully about the upset caused to Mrs M. Ms M has explained Mrs M couldnt 
buy Christmas presents or get her hair done as she would have liked. I dont doubt this was 
a really upsetting time for Mrs M  especially as she was dealing with her own health issues 
at the time. But it would only be appropriate to ask Barclays to pay compensation if I think 
theyd acted unfairly. And based on everything Ive seen, as explained above, I dont think 
they did.
Overall, I know how upset Mrs M, and Ms M on her behalf will be with my decision. But I 
want to assure them both Ive looked at everything on file, and Im satisfied Barclays have 
acted appropriately. 
I appreciate Ms M said there was nothing untoward with Mrs Ms account, and she shouldnt 
have been treated in the way she was. But Barclays were concerned about Mrs Ms financial 
affairs due to an ongoing investigation with the social services, so they put restrictions in 
place to protect her. They couldnt be fully satisfied that Mrs Ms finances were being 
managed in the way they should have been until the social services finalised their 
investigations. And I think that was appropriate in this situation.
To conclude, I cant fairly say Barclays acted inappropriately in the circumstances of this 
complaint. So I wont be asking them to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman