DRN-2688299
The complaint
Mr F complains that Aviva Insurance Limited declined his private health insurance claim and 
about its service. 
Mr F will see that my decision is about a business with a slightly difference name to the 
business our investigator referred to in correspondence. Aviva Insurance Limited is the 
insurer of the policy and the right business for the decision to be about. My references to it 
includes its agents. The change in business name hasnt made any difference to the 
outcome of my decision.
What happened
Mr F has private health insurance through his employers, insured by Aviva.
The policy is fully medically underwritten. So when Mr F joined the policy he completed an 
application and health declaration for Aviva to assess what, if any, exclusions should apply 
to the policy. Mr F had told Aviva about his existing familial hypertension and 
hypercholesterolemia and Aviva added the following specific exclusion to his policy:
Diseases and disorders of the cardiovascular system including their complications.
Mr F has six monthly blood tests as he takes medication for his hypertension and 
cholesterol. In February 2020 Mr F claimed to see a cardiologist. He told Aviva his GP had 
referred him to a cardiologist as a recent blood test showed raised triglyceride levels.  
Aviva declined to cover the referral as it said the above specific exclusion applied. Mr F 
disputed the decline saying the issue may be with his liver. Aviva asked to see the GPs 
referral letter which Avivas clinical team assessed and maintained the claim decline. Mr F  
paid privately to see the cardiologist and have associated cardiac diagnostic tests. 
In March 2020 Mr F called Aviva for cover for an ultrasound scan of his liver. Aviva agreed to 
cover that procedure. Mr F mentioned again his claim for the cardiologist and then sent the 
cardiologists report to Aviva who continued to decline that claim.
Mr F complained to us. In summary he says:
his GP told him triglycerides are produced by the liver as a function of the digestive 
system. The ultrasound of his liver was to look at a possible cause of the high levels
Aviva unfairly applied the exclusion as he was referred to the cardiologist only to 
investigate possible effects on his heart caused by the increased triglycerides. His 
actual claim was for unexplained disorders of his digestive system 
Avivas communication was poor 
he wants Aviva to pay the private fees he paid for the cardiologist referral and 
compensation for time hes spent on the claim and complaint. He also wants Aviva to 
reassure him it will cover future associated claims to avoid delays in being referred
his GP proposed a further referral to a liver specialist and as he no longer has 
confidence Aviva will provide cover hes used public hospital appointments so further 
investigations will be delayed which may affect his health.
Our investigator said Aviva fairly declined the claim.
Mr F disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He adds:
theres no evidence that high triglyceride levels are caused by a disease or disorder 
of the cardiovascular system. The referral to a cardiologist wasnt for treatment of a 
cardiovascular disease or disorder and the cardiologist didnt recommend any 
treatment of his cardiovascular system
Avivas refusal of the claim effectively left him uninsured. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the relevant rules and industry guidelines an insurer has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably decline a claim.
I have to decide whether Aviva reasonably relied on the specific policy exclusion to decline 
the claim for the cardiologist referral and whether it gave fair service, and I think it did. Im 
sorry to disappoint Mr F but I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr F says his claim was for unexplained disorders of his digestive system. But theres no 
mention of that in his GPs referral letter or the cardiologists report. 
The GPs referral letter says:
Mr F has a significant history of hypertension for which hes taken medication for 
many years 
hes been on statin therapy for several years as hes dyslipidemic (has high 
cholesterol or lipid level which can include too high levels of triglyceride) 
Mr Fs hypertension appears well-controlled on his medication but lately his 
tendency to hypertriglyceridemia (elevated triglyceride) isnt being controlled on a 
maximum dose of a named medication thats used to lower cholesterol and prevent 
cardiovascular disease.
The GPs referral letter concludes that I wonder whether (Mr F) warrants further 
investigation  given his significant risk factors?
The cardiologists report states Mr F attended for a cardiac investigation, test results were 
normal and there was no need for further investigation.
Mr F says his GP told him triglycerides are produced by the liver. Information Ive seen says 
the liver does produce its own supply of triglycerides, as well as coming from food. But I dont think that means Mr Fs claim was for unexplained disorders of his digestive system.
From the GP and cardiologists evidence, I think Aviva reasonably understood Mr F was 
referred to a cardiologist for cardiac assessment as he has hypertension and dyslipidemia 
and the failure of his medication (given to prevent cardiovascular disease) to control the high 
triglyceride meant he was at significant risk of cardiovascular disease.
I dont think there has to be evidence that high triglyceride levels are caused by a disease or 
disorder of the cardiovascular system for the exclusion to be fairly applied. Mr Fs 
combination of medical conditions meant he was being referred to a cardiologist, for cardiac 
assessment about cardiovascular disease or disorders. In those circumstances I think Aviva 
fairly applied the exclusion to decline the claim for the cardiologist referral.
Im pleased the cardiac investigations had normal results and Mr F required no further 
cardiac assessment or treatment, but that doesnt mean Aviva has to cover the claim.
Mr F says Avivas declining to cover the claim for cardiac investigation effectively leaves him 
uninsured but I dont think thats correct. Aviva covered his later claim for an ultrasound to 
his liver as it didnt think the exclusion applied.  
Mr Fs queried when he would be covered. I make a decision on the circumstances that 
happened, not hypothetical situations. If Mr F wants Aviva to cover a claim in the future he 
should contact Aviva to assess if there is cover in line with the policy terms, exclusions and 
limits.
Mr F also says Avivas communication was poor. Hes not given any details about those 
concerns. Ive seen no evidence that Aviva unreasonably delayed in responding to Mr F and 
I think it gave reasonable service. 
As I think Aviva acted fairly and reasonably in its decline of the claim and service theres no 
basis for me to say Aviva must pay the claim or compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience Mr F suffered. I dont generally award compensation for a consumers time 
spent in making a claim or complaint and theres no reason for me to do so in this case.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman