DRN-3475473
Complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to block his account after he 
says he reported his mobile phone was stolen. He says this led to it registering a fraud 
prevention marker against him.
Background
In March 2020, Mr O received a number of payments from third parties into his account. 
These funds were immediately withdrawn from Mr Os account using in branch cash 
machines and account transfers. Barclays subsequently received a notification from a third-
party bank responsible for sending more than one of the payments to Mr Os account stating 
its customers had reported being victims of fraud. Barclays reviewed Mr Os account and as 
a result of its investigation, it decided to close Mr Os account and record a fraud prevention 
marker.
After learning of the fraud prevention marker, Mr O complained that it had been applied 
unfairly and that Barclays had failed to prevent him from being a victim of fraudulent activity. 
Barclays didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. As Mr O remained dissatisfied, Mr O referred the 
matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Os concerns. She didnt think that Barclays had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr O unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr O disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Barclays has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr O is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Barclays must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Os account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Barclays also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr O was deliberately dishonest 
in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. 
This can include Mr O allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Os complaint, I need to decide whether I think Barclays had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Os account and that his actions 
suggest he was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Barclays did 
have enough to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more 
detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr Os 
account in October 2020, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr O was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
On his completed complaint form to us, Mr O said that he contacted Barclays to let to it know 
that hed lost his phone and he asked for his account and card to be frozen at this stage. He 
said that he didnt know that this hadnt been done because he didnt have access to his 
mobile banking and he wasnt bothered about the account because he had no money on it. It 
was only a few weeks later that he realised that his account was blocked and he thought that 
this was a good thing because he requested this a few weeks previously. It was only when 
he called in response to this letter that he realised transactions and withdrawals had been 
made on his account. He says he told Barclays he didnt carry out this activity and that he 
never deliberately passed on his account details.  
Upon being questioned by our adjudicator, Mr O then said that hed given his account details 
and personal identification number as well as his card to someone he knew. He says he did 
this because he was told hed receive some money for doing so. He also provided messages 
evidencing him being asked for this information. 
Ive thought about what Mr O has said. But Im satisfied that the available evidence 
demonstrates that Barclays was reasonably entitled to conclude that Mr O was complicit in 
the fraudulent activity which took place on his account. I think this is the case for a number of 
reasons.
To start with, Ive looked through the contact Mr O had with Barclays. And theres no record 
of him having notified Barclays that his phone was lost or making a request for his card or 
account to be blocked. Furthermore, at the very least, I would have expected a replacement 
card to have been requested if Mr O wanted his existing card blocked  after all if he had no 
intention of using the account again because it wasnt needed he surely would have closed it 
rather than opening savings accounts a few days later. So Im not persuaded that Mr O took 
any steps to restrict access to his account, prior to Barclays doing this as a result of the 
activity it considered to be suspicious, in mid-March 2020.
Its also worth noting that even Mr Os latest version of events, which appears to be more 
accurate as it is at least backed up by the messages provided, has seen him say that he 
provided someone with his bank details for a financial gain. Given Mr O was providing his 
details to someone who presumably wasnt prepared to use their own account in order to 
make this money, I think that Mr O ought to have realised that there was a significant risk his 
account would be used for illegitimate purposes. This is especially as Mr O hasnt provided any explanation for how he thought this financial gain would materialise through legitimate 
means.
Mr O says he didnt end up making a financial gain as the person he gave his details to 
didnt pass on any funds and ended up blocking him on the messaging app he used to 
communicate with them. But Mr Os unreliability as a witness throughout the investigation 
process means that I cant place much weight on what hes said  especially as the vast 
majority of the funds were withdrawn as cash, possibly by him, or at the very least someone 
who could have passed some of them to him. In any event, even if Mr O didnt actually make 
a financial gain, this doesnt alter the fact that when he provided his details he did so 
intending to make a financial gain in circumstances where he ought to have realised there as 
a significant risk his account would be used for illegitimate purposes. 
In these circumstances, I cant reasonably conclude Mr O was an unwitting participant here. 
Instead, I think its more likely than not he was complicit in his account receiving fraudulent 
funds  albeit he may not have benefitted from this in the way that he had hoped to. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Barclays did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr Os account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Mr O was complicit in this. As this is 
the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Barclays to record a fraud prevention marker in 
the circumstances that it did and Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr O. But I hope hell understand the reasons 
for my decision and that hell appreciate why a fraud marker has been recorded against him. 
Furthermore, Mr O might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as 
he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman