DRN-1913261
 
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with how he was treated by HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) during a visit to his 
local branch.
What happened
Mr M had been a customer of HSBC for a number of years when they gave him notice they 
were closing his account. The account was closed on 10 May 2020, and the account 
balance was sent to Mr M by cheque on 12 May 2020
Mr M has complained that, during a visit to a HSBC branch on 10 March 2020, he was 
discriminated against, shouted at by a staff member and called a racist. Hes also unhappy 
that, because his account has now been closed, he now cant receive any money.
Our investigator said HSBCs records showed several incidents over a period of 18 months 
where Mr M had been abusive to HSBC staff, both in branch and on the phone. Because of 
this, HSBC decided to end their relationship with Mr M and closed his accounts. He thought 
HSBC were entitled to make this decision, and theyd acted reasonably by giving Mr M 60 
days notice of the closure. 
The investigator also though HSBC had acted reasonably during Mr Ms visit to the branch 
on 10 March 2020. He said a staff member was visibly upset by Mr Ms actions, and the 
Branch Manager intervened. And Mr M was allowed to use a telephone in the branch to 
access his account through HSBCs telephone banking service. He also thought it was right 
for branch staff to challenge racist behaviour and comments. So he didnt think HSBC 
needed to do anything more.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator and strongly expressed his opinions over several 
emails. Hes said that, as a Premier client for 20 years, he made a complaint about HSBC, 
not the other way around. Hes unhappy that the investigator refused to defend his complaint 
and sided with HSBC instead. So hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Id like to explain the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service. We are an 
independent complaint handling body. Were not here to defend the financial services 
industry. But were also not here to act as a consumer champion. We investigate complaints 
brought to us and decide what is a fair and reasonable outcome based on the evidence 
weve seen. Having reviewed the evidence, I agree with the investigators findings on this 
complaint for broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its 
because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Ive seen a copy of HSBCs case notes relating to Mr Ms branch visit on 10 March 2020, 
and his subsequent telephone conversations and complaint. These record the comments Mr 
M made, and I can see why they could be considered as being racist in nature. HSBC have 
also referred to a previous complaint Mr M made to the Financial Ombudsman Service. This 
complaint related to a branch visit in February 2019 and refers to Mr M being asked to leave 
the branch because hed become abusive to staff members. 
I appreciate Mr Ms comments that we should be investigating his complaint about HSBC, 
and not HSBCs complaint about him. I would like to reassure Mr M that HSBC have not 
complained about him, and its his complaint thats being investigated. 
But HSBC have said their decision to close the account was because of Mr M persistently 
being abusive to their staff members, and this abuse taking place over a period of time. So 
their comments on what happened previously are relevant to this complaint.
As I wasnt there when Mr M visited HSBC, and because theres no CCTV or other similar 
evidence for me to view, I have to make my decision based on whats been said happened. 
And when people dont agree on what happened, I need to decide whats most likely to have 
happened in the circumstances.
Mr M said he was made to wait when his visited the branch, and staff members were talking 
to each other instead of serving customers. Hes also said he was on crutches at the time 
and wasnt offered a seat  he had to drag a heavy chair himself. I appreciate he wouldve 
found this frustrating. 
But HSBC said Mr M became abusive and made racist comments. Given HSBCs system 
notes of the visit, the of similar behaviour from Mr M in the past, and the frustration hes said 
he was feeling; I think its more likely than not that he made comments HSBC considered to 
be abusive and racist, and to which the staff member he spoke to found to be upsetting.
Because of the this, HSBC made a commercial decision to close Mr Ms accounts. Theyre 
entitled to do this based on the terms and conditions of their accounts, so I cant say they 
were wrong in doing so. And this decision isnt affected by the length of time Mr M was a 
customer, or dependent upon the number or type of accounts he had.
HSBC wrote to Mr M on 10 March 2020, giving him 60 days notice of the closure of his 
accounts. I think that this was sufficient time for Mr M to open a new account and to arrange 
for payments in and out to be moved to the new account. So I dont think the length of notice 
period given was unreasonable in the circumstances. And I wont be asking HSBC to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman