DRN-3359055
The complaint
Mr As complaint is about a claim he made on his AXA Insurance UK Plc commercial and 
residential landlords insurance policy. Mr A says AXAs response to his claim was unfair.
All references to AXA include their claims handlers.
What happened
Mr A made a claim on the legal expenses section of his AXA commercial and residential 
landlords insurance policy for cover to deal with a dispute between his tenants and the 
County Council concerning an interference with a right of way. 
AXA responded confirming the policy only provided cover for pursuing claims for property 
infringement rather than defending them but that if Mr A wanted to bring a claim against his 
tenants for breach of their tenancy agreement they could consider that. 
Mr A responded saying he felt his claim should be covered under the property infringement 
section of the policy, so AXA considered things further. They asked him for further 
information, including the title deeds to his property, photographs of the disputed area, all 
correspondence between the parties in dispute, a copy of a land surveyors report and any 
other information in support of the claim. They also pointed out again that policy coverage 
extended to pursing claims in relation to property infringement, but not defending them.
Mr A provided the title deeds to his property and an aerial photograph from 2006 showing 
the access way in dispute. He also asked for his solicitor to be appointed to deal with the 
dispute immediately.
AXA confirmed they would need expert evidence to help support Mr As position as well as a 
supportive legal opinion from his own solicitor if he wanted AXA to appoint them. They also 
pointed out that they wouldnt cover his solicitors costs in assessing the merits of his claim, 
but they could appoint their own panel firm once they received expert evidence from Mr A. In 
response Mr A forwarded an email hed received from the County Council about the dispute 
with his tenants and said the matter was becoming more serious and complicated and that 
he urgently needed to discuss this with his solicitor and act without delay. AXA replied 
reiterating its previous position.
Further correspondence ensued. Essentially Mr A continued to request cover and AXA 
continued to maintain their position. AXA remain willing to appoint a panel firm of solicitors to 
consider Mr As claim if hes able to furnish them with the information theyve requested. 
Overall Mr A is unhappy with this. He feels AXA have treated him unfairly and taken too long 
to deal with his claim. Mr A also says his tenants are in breach of their lease and that hes 
owed rent by them. He wants AXA to help him remedy the breach and collect the rent.
Our investigator considered Mr As complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. He 
thought AXA had acted reasonably and in line with the policy terms and didnt delay things 
unnecessarily. He also said the issue of a breach of the lease and unpaid rent was 
mentioned briefly when Mr A initially made his claim to AXA but not pursued and it didnt 
form part of his complaint to AXA, so he should address this separately with them. Mr A 
doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
The starting point is the policy terms. For property infringement claims, they cover costs for 
policyholders to bring proceedings for nuisance or trespass against the person or 
organisation infringing his/hers legal rights. 
When Mr A brought this claim hed provided a letter from his County Council confirming his 
tenants had encroached on a right of way and threatening to refer things to their legal team. 
So, it looked like Mr A was seeking to defend a claim being made against him in respect of a 
property infringement caused by his tenants. Because of this I dont think AXA were wrong to 
point out that defending claims like this werent covered under the policy. 
When Mr A contacted them again however they were prepared to investigate pursuing a 
claim against the County Council if Mr A was able to substantiate his claim with evidence. 
Thats because the policy requires Mr A to have reasonable prospects of success in 
pursuing his claim. And the onus of providing the information to support this is on Mr A. From 
what hed provided AXA with, there didnt appear to be enough evidence to show he has a 
valid claim against the County Council so I think it was reasonable for AXA to ask for expert 
evidence in the form of a land surveyors report to establish whether this was the case. I note 
that Mr A hasnt provided a report as yet. If he does, AXA has said they will proceed to 
investigating his claim. By this they mean theyll appoint a panel firm of solicitors to consider 
the merits of it, in line with the policy terms.
I know AXA didnt initially make this offer. But thats because Mr A expressed that he wanted 
to appoint his own solicitors. AXA was amenable to considering an opinion on the merits of 
the claim from Mr As own solicitor but made clear that the cost of this was something Mr A 
would be responsible for. Again, I agree that this was a reasonable stance to take. Cover 
doesnt engage on the policy until and unless it can be established by way of a legal opinion 
that a policyholder has, amongst other things, reasonable prospects of success. So, if Mr A 
wanted to use his own solicitor to advise on this issue, hed have to fund this himself. 
Alternatively, and as is usual in legal expenses insurance policies, AXA said they would 
appoint their own panel firm to consider this at their own cost. But not without some form of 
evidence to help establish Mr As claim. In this case I agree that expert evidence is 
necessary so unless Mr A can provide that to AXA, I dont think AXA needs to do anything 
further.
I know Mr A feels AXA have caused unreasonable delays in this matter. Having considered 
the timeline in this complaint and in particular the responses to AXAs requests for 
information, Im not persuaded that AXA did cause any unnecessary delays. There was 
nothing unusual about their response times. What I think Mr A is unhappy with is less these 
and more AXAs unwillingness to appoint solicitors to deal with his claim until he provides the 
evidence requested. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think their stance in relation 
to this is unreasonable so I dont think theyve done anything wrong by continuing to bring 
matters back to the information they require to progress things.
Finally, Mr A feels AXA havent dealt with a claim about breach of the tenancy agreement 
and rent arrears by his tenants. As the investigator said, this was something Mr A briefly mentioned when he made his claim but didnt pursue. AXA did offer to explore breach of the 
tenancy agreement but nothing more was said about this in response by Mr A. And AXA 
havent had the opportunity to explore a complaint about this issue so Im not able to 
consider it. If Mr A wants to bring these claims against his tenants, he should refer this to 
AXA to consider in the first instance.
I appreciate Mr A will find my decision disappointing, but I hope Ive provided him with a 
thorough explanation of why I wont be upholding his complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr As complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman