DRN-3702779
The complaint
Mr M has complained about a mortgage he has with Bank of Scotland plc. Mr M says:
the broker who arranged the mortgage committed fraud by overstating Mr Ms income on 
the application form, and that BoS was complicit in the fraud;
when the mortgage reached the end of its term, BoS failed to provide him with any 
assistance or follow guidance laid down by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). As a result, Mr M had to arrange a new Retirement Interest Only (RIO) mortgage 
with another lender, which he thinks BoS should pay off for him.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 11 August 2020. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. 
In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Mr M being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my summary of what 
happened quite brief.
After taking advice from his own independent mortgage broker in 2002, Mr M took out an 
interest-only mortgage with BoS. He borrowed £153,940 over an 18-year term. The 
mortgage was taken out before mortgages became regulated on 31 October 2004, and so 
was subject to the Mortgage Code, a voluntary code of practice for lenders and brokers.
The broker, Mr L, submitted the application via a mortgage packaging firm, FFPS and it was 
FFPS which dealt directly with the bank in relation to the application. 
The historic documents show that Mr M had originally intended to purchase a property I will 
call 94W, and that is the property detailed on the handwritten mortgage application. 
However, due to mistakes made by the surveyors instructed to carry out the valuation, Mr M 
lost this property. In a letter dated 18 October 2002 from the mortgage packagers to BoS, it 
was clarified that Mr M had found another property in the same road as the original one, this 
time 109W. It was that property which Mr M went ahead and purchased, with the transaction 
completing in early January 2003.
Mr M initially arranged an endowment policy which was the intended repayment vehicle, but 
has told us the FCA advised customers to get out of these because of the wholly unrealistic 
growth projections made by the policy providers and that the endowments would have a very 
severe shortfall at term end.  
As a consequence, Mr M did not have an adequate repayment vehicle for his mortgage. I am 
sorry to note that Mr M has had health difficulties over the years and had to give up work. 
The Department of Work & Pensions has contributed to the mortgage interest for some 
years.
Mr M complained to BoS several times over the years that he thought the mortgage had 
been mis-sold by the broker and that he had been the victim of fraud. He said that his 
income had been overstated on the application, leading him to take out a mortgage that was 
unaffordable. 
Mr M explained that several years after hed taken out his mortgage, the broker had been 
convicted of mortgage fraud and imprisoned. BoS repeatedly explained to Mr M that it hadnt 
been responsible for the sale of the mortgage.
The mortgage term reached its end in December 2020. Mr M had been discussing his 
repayment proposals with BoS for some time before the term expired. However, it wasnt 
possible to extend the mortgage on an interest-only basis, as this didnt meet BoSs current 
lending criteria. BoS considered a lump sum reduction in the mortgage, and a term 
extension to run to Mr Ms 80th birthday on a repayment basis. However, on 12 January 2021 
Mr M repaid the mortgage in full, by taking out an RIO with another lender.
Mr M complained to BoS about fraud by the broker and about the lack of support once the 
mortgage term reached its end. Mr M said that BoS had been complicit in the fraud carried 
out by the mortgage broker, which had resulted in him having a mortgage which was 
unaffordable. Mr M also said that BoS had failed to take account of FCA requirements 
published in 2013 for dealing with vulnerable customers at the end of their mortgage terms.
BoS explained that Mr M had raised the complaint about the brokers in the past, and that the 
bank had explained to him that it wasnt responsible for the sale. BoS said that it wasnt 
possible to extend the mortgage term on an interest-only basis. BoS said that reducing the 
mortgage by £40,000 and transferring it to repayment with an extended term would be an 
option which it was prepared to consider.
The bank also explained that details of Mr Ms mortgage were held on a legacy system, 
which meant that it wasnt always easy for staff to route Mr Ms calls to the correct area of 
the business. BoS acknowledged that Mr M had been inconvenienced by this, and BoS paid 
compensation of £100 to cover this.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with this and brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Initially BoS didnt agree to us looking at any issues relating to the sale of the 
mortgage, due to the time that had elapsed. However, the bank ultimately gave us consent 
to look at these historic issues.
The investigator explained to Mr M that the mortgage had been arranged by Mr L, who 
worked for FFPS, and that it was reasonable for BoS to rely on the information provided by 
the broker at the time. The investigator also thought that the bank had given fair 
consideration to Mr Ms proposals and had engaged with him to try to find a suitable 
repayment strategy. As a result, he didnt think the bank had done anything wrong.
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Hes made some 
further points, which I summarise below.
Mr L was the broker, not FFPS;
we have failed to investigator the actions of the known fraudster, Mr L;
Mr M wants to know what evidence the Financial Ombudsman Service has concerning 
BoSs compliance with the FCAs 2013 guidance on dealing with consumers at the end 
of their interest-only mortgage terms;Mr M has never seen a copy of an application for the house he bought;
if BoS had carried out due diligence this would have revealed that the information on the 
application form was fabricated;
we have failed to answer Mr Ms questions to his satisfaction, or to investigate the 
complaint in the way he would like us to.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I am glad that BoS has given consent to us to consider the allegations of mis-sale and 
fraud that were covered in previous final response letters where those matters would 
otherwise be out of time under our rules. It is clear from what hes told us that these matters 
have weighed heavily on Mr M for a number of years, because hes raised them with the 
bank numerous times. It is in the best interests of all parties that there is finality in relation to 
the mis-sale complaint against BoS.
Having read the file, I note the evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred 
pages of documents. Ive read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence 
are less relevant to the underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated 
documents and repetition of arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised 
events in rather less detail than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
I must also explain that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent of both 
consumers and the businesses they are complaining about. This means that we dont act for 
consumers, nor do we take instructions either from consumers or businesses, or allow either 
party to direct the course of our investigations; were we to do so, it would compromise our 
independence and impartiality. Its up to us to determine what evidence we need in order to 
investigate a complaint. So although Ive noted the questions which Mr M would like 
answered to his satisfaction, its not my role to put those questions to BoS or to act as 
Mr Ms representative and follow his instructions. 
The issues in this case are far simpler than first appear:
was BoS responsible for the sale, and by extension, the alleged mis-sale of the 
mortgage?
was Mr M treated unfairly when the mortgage term was coming to an end?
Mis-sale complaint: Mr M is correct that Mr L was the broker who advised him. FFPS was 
the mortgage packager that received the application from Mr L, processed it and dealt with BoS. I apologise for this error, but nothing turns on this in relation to the outcome of the 
complaint against BoS.
No advice was given by BoS in relation to this mortgage. If Mr M is concerned about the 
advice he received from Mr L, he will need to take this up with the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS). We can provide an address for that organisation if Mr M 
would like us to.
I must also clarify that the Financial Ombudsman Service has no power to investigate 
allegations of criminal behaviour; that is a matter for the police.
Mr M says that BoS failed to undertake due diligence and that, if the bank had done so, it 
would have discovered that the application form Mr M signed contained false information 
about his income. However, under the Mortgage Code in place at the time, BoS was entitled 
to accept the information provided to it by brokers and packagers in good faith, on the 
assumption that the information was correct. 
In the circumstances, Im unable to find that BoS did anything wrong in relying on this 
information. In saying this, I cant ignore the fact that Mr M signed a mortgage application 
which confirmed his income, Given this, the logical conclusion to be drawn is that he knew, 
or ought reasonably to have known, that he was providing information on his mortgage 
application that was inaccurate and didnt reflect his actual earnings.
With regard to the change of property, it is correct that the application was submitted for 
94W, but, as Ive stated above, this purchase didnt go ahead. However, there was no need 
to submit a fresh application where there was a change of property, and that was (and 
remains) standard industry practice. All that was needed was for a fresh valuation, and, 
following that, an assessment of the loan-to-value ratio for the new property. I can see that 
the mortgage offer which Mr M accepted shows the correct property, 109W. 
Mr M has suggested that he didnt know he was taking out an interest-only mortgage. 
However, Mr M has also told us that he took out an endowment policy, which he wouldnt 
have done if he truly thought he had a repayment mortgage. The banks notes record that 
Mr M told BoS on 9 April 2020 that, due to his endowment not paying off the balance, the 
FCA had advised lenders in 2013 to provide solutions to interest-only borrowers at the end 
of their mortgage terms. So Im satisfied Mr M was fully aware he had taken out an interest-
only mortgage.
No advice was given by BoS in relation to the mortgage. The available documents from 
2002/3 do not lead me to conclude there was any error on the part of BoS in relation to the 
consideration or underwriting of the mortgage application.
I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
End of mortgage term: Mr Ms main concern is that BoS has breached regulatory guidance 
issued by the FCA in 2013. The Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a regulator, and so 
regulatory compliance is outside the scope of my remit. But in any event, the regulations 
BoS is required to follow here are the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (MCOB). 
In 2014 the FCA made changes to MCOB which required mortgage lenders to carry out 
stringent affordability assessments.  I can see that Mr M was discussing with BoS for some 
time how the mortgage could be paid back at the end of the term. In this regard, BoS is obliged to ensure that any repayment strategy proposed is affordable and in line with the 
banks lending criteria.
Im satisfied that an interest-only term extension was not possible, given that Mr M didnt 
have a plan to repay the capital at the end of any extended term. BoS looked at extending 
the term on a repayment basis to Mr Ms 80th birthday, if he was able to make a lump sum 
reduction (I understand there were pension funds from which Mr M could draw lump sums). 
BoS ascertained that, if Mr M was able to reduce the balance and clear credit card debts, an 
affordable solution could be reached on a repayment basis.
However, rather than continue to review his options with BoS, on 12 January 2021 Mr M 
instead re-financed on a RIO with another lender. He is paying the interest on this mortgage, 
of approximately £160 per month, and has the option to make overpayments of up to 10% 
per annum without incurring an early repayment charge. The mortgage is repayable when 
Mr M passes away or goes into long-term care. 
Overall, I dont think BoS treated Mr M unfairly or contrary to its regulatory obligations when 
the term of his mortgage reached its end.
I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
Customer service: BoS acknowledged that, due to its legacy system, Mr M had difficulty on 
occasion in speaking to the right person, or in the banks staff being able to access his 
details on its system. BoS paid Mr M compensation of £100 for this, which I think is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. Im not ordering the bank to do anything further.
Conclusion
I know Mr M remains steadfast in his belief that he was the victim of mortgage fraud 
perpetrated on him by Mr L. As I have explained, I cant investigate Mr Ms concerns about 
this, because this specific complaint is against BoS. 
Mr L is no longer trading and so Mr M will need to go to the FSCS with his complaint about 
the mortgage advice he received from Mr L in 2002. I dont know if the FSCS will be able to 
assist, but I have no power to look into a complaint against Mr L, as he is no longer in 
business.
In relation to Mr Ms complaints about BoS, for all the reasons given above, Im unable to 
find that the bank has done anything wrong. I know this isnt the answer Mr M wanted, but I 
can assure him that I have given very careful consideration to everything hes told us. 
However, after doing so, Im unable to find in his favour.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022. 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman