DRN-3069391
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is about their mortgage arrangements with Santander UK plc. 
They are unhappy that Mr M wasnt allowed to leave the interest rate product on his 
mortgage early without penalty, when they took a new joint mortgage with Santander. This 
meant they had to port the existing product over to the new mortgage for the remainder of its 
term and take a different rate for the increase in lending. However, they say that based on 
what Mr M was told by Santander initially, they were expecting to be able to have a new 
interest rate product covering the entire new mortgage and not have to pay an early 
repayment charge (ERC). 
What happened
Mr M took out a mortgage with Santander to purchase his and Mrs Ms home in the spring of 
2015. The mortgage had an interest rate product attached to it that had a term of five years. 
If the mortgage was paid off before 3 June 2020 an ERC was payable. 
When Mr M was sent annual mortgage statements for 2017, 2018 and 2019 he was given a 
booklet detailing how the mortgage worked and what could be done with it. This included a 
section titled Looking to move home?. This detailed that the current deal/product could be 
ported to a new property and a new deal could be taken if additional borrowing was needed. 
Alternatively, a new deal could be chosen for the entire mortgage, without the payment of an 
ERC if there was less than six months on the existing product at the time of application. It 
went on to say that if there was more than six months on the existing product at the time of 
application, the ERC would have to be paid if one applied.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs M decided to move. Mr M made enquiries in early August 2019 about 
the exit fee for leaving the mortgage product early. He confirmed that the property wasnt on 
the market, but he intended to do so in the next week or so. It was confirmed he was tied 
into the product until June 2020. Also, he confirmed that they would want a larger mortgage 
for the new purchase. Santander explained that he couldnt apply for another mortgage until 
hed found a new property and had an offer accepted. The adviser explained that the product 
would be transferred/ported to a new mortgage with Santander and the additional amount 
would be on a new product. The application process was explained and a timescale was 
given  around four weeks. He was told about the tools on Santanders website that would 
tell him how much he could borrow. Mr M told the member of staff hed read that he could 
come out of the product six months early. He was told he was right the six-month window for 
this would be from 2 December 2019. 
A week later Mr M spoke to Santander again. Santander told him the new mortgage 
application had to be made during the six-month window if Mr and Mrs M wanted to avoid 
paying an ERC. Mr M was told the application could only be started in December 2019. Mr M 
mentioned he didnt want to wait until the six-month period before applying and gave an 
example of them wanting to apply in October 2019 to move in early December 2019. He was 
told that as this would involve an application before the six-month window, if he wanted to 
avoid paying the ERC, it was likely he would have to port the existing rate and then reapply 
for a new rate when it ended. 
Mr M said to the Santander adviser that he understood what he was being told, but he didnt 
understand the principle behind the application needing to be made in the six-month widow. 
It was explained this was a grace period given by Santander and that was how it worked. 
During the remainder of the conversation, Mr M posed various scenarios to the adviser. 
Porting the existing interest rate product, what rates would potentially be available if an 
application was made in October and completion deadlines for any such products were 
discussed. It is clear that there was some confusion in the latter part of the conversation. It 
seems the adviser didnt understand, as hed already answered the question, that Mr M was 
effectively continuing to ask the same question about the six-month window by posing 
various scenarios. The answers given were not incorrect, but as Mr W was still exploring the 
ability to apply for a mortgage earlier than the six-month window would allow, he has 
confirmed he took the advisers answers to mean he could do what he wanted to do and 
avoid paying an ERC. 
Shortly after the above conversation, Mr M commissioned a home report, to enable him to 
put the property on the market. 
At the beginning of September 2019 Mr and Mrs M completed an on-line application for a 
new mortgage. Santander called Mr M and asked him some questions about the application 
and his and Mrs Ms circumstances. Mr M confirmed that he hadnt accepted an offer on the 
existing property and they hadnt had an offer accepted on one they wanted to buy. 
Santander explained that it wouldnt move the application forward until Mr and Mrs M had 
had an offer on a new property accepted. 
The next contact from Mr M was the end of October 2019.  He explained to Santander that 
the existing property was being sold and would complete the following week. However, they 
hadnt found a new property yet. Santander confirmed there was a porting window for the 
existing rate of three months and that a new rate could be taken for the entire mortgage if 
the application was within six months of the end of the rate. It was further explained that the 
ERC would have to be paid when the mortgage was paid off, but that it would be refunded 
when the product was ported over to the new mortgage.  There was then a discussion about 
the living arrangements that would be in place between the completion of the sale and the 
new house purchase. 
In November 2019 the sale of Mr and Mrs Ms existing home completed and the mortgage 
was paid off. An ERC was charged. 
Mr and Mrs M applied for a new mortgage with Santander. Mr M completed the early stage 
of the application in a telephone call with Santander on 8 November 2019. This consisted of 
a fact finding exercise about Mr and Mrs M, their employment, circumstances, the house 
they wanted to buy and the mortgage they needed. When they were transferred to a 
relationship manager further into the call, Mr M explained his understanding of the six-month 
window for taking a new mortgage without having to pay an ERC  that the mortgage 
completion had to be within the window, but the application could be made in advance. The 
relationship manager confirmed that his understanding was correct. Mr M was asked to 
provide some information and once that was received, an appointment with a mortgage 
adviser would be arranged. 
The following week the relationship manager called Mr M to explain that the mortgage 
adviser, with whom he had an appointment booked the following day had raised some 
concerns about the application being made when it was. This was because, if Mr and Mrs M 
wanted to be able to take out a new mortgage on a new product and receive a refund of the 
ERC, the application was being made too early as it was outside the six-month window. 
Mr M told Santander that this was a problem as he had started the sale and purchase 
process based on the information hed been given in August, which was that the application could be made outside the window and the only requirement was for the mortgage to 
complete within the six months before the rate expired. The relationship manager admitted 
that this had been her understanding of the concession too. She then made a further 
mistake when discussing the situation as she said the mortgage adviser couldnt discuss 
rates with Mr and Mrs M because they might complete before the six-month window started. 
There was then a discussion about porting and the options around this, given the increase in 
lending.  
The relationship manager said that a complaint could be raised and the call he'd referred to 
could be listened to. If a new product was taken for the whole of the new mortgage, they 
could see if there was anything that could be done about having the ERC refunded, but there 
was a chance that it wouldnt be. This call was then disconnected and Santander called Mr 
M back. It was then confirmed that a complaint was going to be set up. Mr M was told it was 
up to him if he wanted to book a new rate for the whole mortgage and run the risk of paying 
the ERC, or port the existing rate. He was told if he did the latter, the complaint could be 
used to see if some form of compensation for the additional interest could be paid instead. It 
was confirmed the mortgage adviser would take him through the different options and costs 
the following day. Mr M said he wanted one rate for the whole mortgage  that was why hed 
called and asked multiple questions of Santander until he had received an answer about the 
six-month window.
Mr and Mrs M decided to port the existing product over to the new mortgage and take a 
different rate for the increased lending which didnt have an ERC payable. This meant that a 
new rate could be applied for to cover the entire mortgage in February 2020 (when Mr and 
Mrs M would be able to apply for a new rate on an existing mortgage without the payment of 
an ERC). The new mortgage was advanced in December 2019 and the ERC was refunded. 
Santander initially responded to the complaint in November 2019. It said that Mr M had been 
given the correct information in the telephone call of 3 August 2019 and it hadnt seen any 
evidence that an error had been made. The complaint was closed at that point, but Mr M 
wasnt told that it was.
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept Santanders response and it was pointed out that there had been 
more than one telephone conversation about the six-month window before they put the 
property on the market. Its not clear which department Mr M called initially on 
24 January 2020 when he made these comments. However, there is a recording of the 
hand-over conversation between the first adviser who spoke with Mr M and the complaints 
department. The first adviser confirmed details of the conversation shed had with Mr M and 
that included the fact that he wanted to make a subject access request (SAR). Santander 
didnt deal with this request or provide Mr M with guidance to pursue it. 
Santander responded again, but it didnt uphold the complaint about the interest rate 
product. It said the original investigation into the complaint wasnt complete as some calls 
with Mr M before the application hadnt been listened to. It apologised for this, along with any 
delays in responding to the complaint, and offered Mr and Mrs M £200 compensation for 
those errors. Santander went on to detail the content of the various calls Mr M had with it 
about moving home. It said that Mr M had been given incorrect information in one call, 
although the concession had been correctly explained five other times. As such, it 
considered Mr and Mrs M could have delayed their mortgage application and it didnt agree 
to cover the difference in interest charged on the mortgage. In relation to the requested SAR, 
it said that there was no mention of this in the conversation hed had on 24 January 2020. 
However, if he wanted to pursue such a request, it gave him instructions on what he needed 
to do. Santander has searched the relevant telephone number for a record of Mr M calling it, 
but it has been unable to find any evidence that he did.Mr and Mrs M werent happy with Santanders response and referred their complaint to this 
service. They said they only agreed to continue with the new mortgage with Santander on 
the basis that they would receive a credit for the difference in rates and that this would be 
clear from the telephone discussions that were had. They also said that the communication 
about the six-month concession on the first call was totally unclear, which is why Mr M 
called the second time. In that second call, Mr M was told that the concession would apply 
provided the new mortgage started within the six-month window, but the application didnt 
need to be started in the window. They said that it was wrong for Santander to say they 
always intended to sell when they did, and theyd originally thought they would need to wait 
until the end of their mortgage product before moving.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. While he thought Mr and Mrs M were 
given incorrect information about the six-month concession in the second telephone call 
Mr M had with Santander, he thought the £200 compensation offered was enough in 
settlement of the complaint. Mr and Mrs M didnt accept this. They said they thought 
Santander hadnt provided us with recordings of all the conversations Mr M had with it. 
however, they acknowledged that they understood why the investigator hadnt upheld the 
complaint about Mr and Mrs M not having received a SAR from Santander, if there was no 
record of it at the relevant time.  
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was passed to me for consideration. I 
requested some further information from Santander including copies of all the telephone 
calls it could locate for Mr M between 3 August 2019 and 24 January 2020. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint setting out my conclusions and reasons for 
reaching them. Below is an excerpt. 
Before I consider the merits of the complaint Mr and Mrs M asked us to consider, I would 
comment on the matter of the complaint handling and the compensation Santander offered. 
Complaint handling is not a regulated activity and so in most situations it doesnt fall within 
our remit to consider. In addition, in this case Mr and Mrs M havent asked us to consider it. 
As such, I wont be making any findings on the handling of the complaint or whether the 
compensation is a fair amount. That said, if Mr and Mrs M want to accept the compensation, 
they should contact Santander directly.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will firstly comment on the matter of the SAR request made by Mr M in January 2020. I am 
satisfied that he did make such a request at that time and that Santander didnt tell him how 
to pursue the request when it was made. However, it explained what he needed to do a few 
weeks later, but Mr M appears to have decided not to pursue the matter. As the request 
seems to have been made so that he could have information about the calls hed had with 
Santander, and Santander provided these to him in February 2020, this may be why the 
request wasnt pursued. I dont think this was particularly good service, but I dont think the 
evidence suggests that Mr and Mrs M have been disadvantaged.
Mr M confirmed in the first call to Santander that he and Mrs M had already decided to put 
their home on the market and that this would be being done in the next week or two. It is 
also clear that Mr M was aware of the ERC payable if the mortgage was paid off before the 
end of the interest rate product. So it would appear that the decision to put the property on 
the market wasnt based on any information Santander provided them in that call or the one 
the following week. As for the explanation of the six-month window that happened in the discussion of 
9 August 2019, I think it was made clear to Mr M that the mortgage application needed to be 
made within that window and couldnt be made any earlier. Its clear that Mr M wasnt happy 
about the answer he received, and he asked further, less clear questions in the hope of 
eliciting a different answer; I dont think he received one. The information the adviser gave 
him about interest rates and when they would be available and when completion would need 
to happen for the rates to be obtained, was correct. I am satisfied Mr M should reasonably 
have understood at the end of that conversation that he couldnt apply for a mortgage, with a 
new product covering the entire loan, before 3 December 2019 and avoid paying the ERC on 
the existing mortgage product, unless the product was ported to the new mortgage. 
Mr M was also reminded at the beginning of October 2019 that Mr and Mrs M couldnt apply 
for a new mortgage with one product covering the whole loan until six months before the old 
product ended. While this was after the sale of the existing property had been agreed, it was 
before they had found one they wanted to buy and had an offer accepted. As such, I am 
satisfied that Mr and Mrs M were aware both before they started marketing their existing 
property and before they started buying a new one, that in order to have the new mortgage 
on the basis they wanted, they couldnt apply before 3 December 2019.
Mr M was given incorrect information about the six-month window by the relationship 
manager in November 2019. However, by that time Mr and Mrs M had already moved 
forward on their purchase in the correct knowledge of how the six-month window worked. 
Whilst this mistake may have caused confusion and might possibly have raised 
Mr and Mrs Ms expectations for a week or so until the mortgage adviser noticed the error, I 
dont consider they relied on that error when making their decisions about buying a new 
property or the timing of doing so. As such, if the application being made outside the six-
month window caused Mr and Mrs M additional financial costs over and above those they 
would have incurred had the application been made within the window, I cant hold 
Santander responsible for those costs. 
As for the relationship managers comments about Mr and Mrs M being compensated due to 
raising a complaint, I have listened to this call and I cant agree that Mr M was told 
Santander would definitely cover the cost of additional interest or refund the ERC, depending 
on which mortgage option they took. Both things were mentioned as a possibility if the 
complaint was upheld, but payment of redress was dependent on that happening.
Santander accepted my provisional decision, but Mr and Mrs M didnt. While Mr M told our 
investigator they didnt accept my provisional decision, they didnt provide any further 
evidence or comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or comment, I see no reason to change 
my conclusions in this case.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman