DRN-3442988
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs S complain about how HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with a new account card 
request.
What happened
Mr H says he lost his account card in April 2021 and requested a new one via HSBCs 
banking application(app). He says a new account card was not sent and made multiple calls 
to HSBC which meant a significant wait. Mr H says he spoke to HSBC about this in 
November 2021 and it agreed to pay £150 compensation which he says is not enough for 
what took place. He says he was unable to pay for items using his card and says a PIN 
wasnt sent to him at the time of the new card.
HSBC says it sent an account card to Mr H in 2019 but it was never activated which caused 
problems ordering a new one via the app. It has apologised for what took place and accepts 
Mr H was given misleading information. HSBC says it has paid £150 compensation and says 
a new PIN wasnt originally ordered as it wasnt needed.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought HSBC had dealt appropriately 
with it by paying a fair and reasonable compensation amount. The investigator thought the 
online conversations ended before HSBC could have sorted out the problem and didnt think 
the card had been activated which led to the original problems.
Mr H says £150 compensation isnt a punishment and says he waited a month for the PIN. 
He says he didnt withdraw cash as he didnt have a PIN or card. Mr H would like further 
compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that HSBC has dealt fairly with this 
complaint by paying an appropriate compensation amount and apologising. I appreciate Mr 
H will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no question here that HSBC ought to have dealt with, what was a simple request for 
a new account card more appropriately. I accept Mr H would have spent some time trying to 
request the new card via the app and later spent time trying to speak to HSBC in person or 
on webchats. I also accept Mr H was caused inconvenience and would have been frustrated 
by what took place.
The only real issue for me to decide here is the level of compensation. I make clear to Mr H 
that we are not HSBCs regulator and so its not our role to fine or punish it as he suggests.
Im satisfied that HSBC has fairly apologised for what took place and explained what the 
issue was with ordering a new account card, that Mr H hadnt activated the card sent in 
2019. I accept that explanation should have been provided far sooner when a new account 
card was requested. I appreciate Mr H says he was unable to use his account card to pay for 
items or withdraw cash. But having looked at Mr H and Mrs Ss account statements I cant 
see that there were any such payments or withdrawals in the 12 months before Mr H lost the 
account card in April 2021 in any event. So, I dont think what took place either prevented Mr 
H using his account, as payments both in and out of the account continued or would have 
had a significant impact.
Im also satisfied that when Mr H spoke to HSBC in around November 2021 a new account 
card was ordered within a relatively short time period. And I think the compensation paid of 
£150 is fair and reasonable and fairly reflects the level of impact on Mr H. And is line with the 
type of awards we would make for this sort of issue. I dont think Mr H suffered any financial 
loss.
I appreciate Mr H makes a new complaint about the PIN which HSBC says it hasnt 
investigated. I cant see there was a significant delay in ordering it as it was assumed the 
original PIN would still work. But that is something Mr H can decide if he wishes to complain 
to HSBC about, which will allow it an opportunity to investigate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman