DRN-3067291
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in August 2003 on 
a credit card. Miss H says Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold her the PPI.
An adjudicator reviewed Miss Hs complaint and didnt think BoS had mis-sold her the PPI. 
As Miss H did not agree, the case has been referred to me  an ombudsman  for a final 
decision to be issued. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
When selling the PPI to Miss H, BoS had to make it clear the policy was optional. It also had 
to get Miss Hs agreement to take it. Miss H says she thought she had to have the PPI if she 
wanted the credit card. She says its optional nature was not made clear. 
BoS says the credit card and PPI were taken out by postal application and its provided the 
application form Miss H completed at the time. Ive considered this form in light of Miss Hs 
comments. The form had a separate section called Credit Card Repayment Cover and 
within this there is description of the PPI and the applicant has to sign a separate box if they 
would like the cover. On Miss Hs form I can see that the relevant box has been signed.  
There is nothing within the statement about the PPI which says it is needed in order for the 
credit card application to be approved and if Miss H didnt want the PPI she couldve left the 
relevant box empty.  
So I think BoS made it clear that Miss H had a choice about taking the PPI, and I think she 
chose to take it knowing she didnt have to.
The PPI was sold by postal application. This means I dont think BoS recommended the 
PPI to Miss H. BoS didnt have to check if the PPI was right for her. However, it did have to 
make sure Miss H got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information BoS gave Miss H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
shouldve been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. 
Miss H has told us shed get very good benefits from her employer. Miss H says the benefits 
wouldve been full pay for almost eight months if she was unable to work due to illness. The 
PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if Miss H couldnt work due to illness and this 
wouldve been paid alongside her employer benefits. The policy wouldve also paid out for 
up to 12 months if Miss H lost her job. The policy wouldve allowed Miss H to use her 
employee benefits to cover other everyday expenses and costs. So, I think she would have 
valued the extra security the policy gave her if things went wrong.
Overall it looks like the PPI would have been useful for Miss H if something went wrong. It 
also looks like the PPI was affordable. As the premium was paid monthly Miss H couldve 
cancelled the PPI at any time if it no longer met her needs. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have put Miss H off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Miss H has said, including what she has said about living at 
home and not having a need for the cover as her outgoings were low. However, the credit 
card was still a financial commitment for Miss H and the cover afforded useful protection. 
Miss Hs circumstances and financial situation could also have changed, meaning she had a 
greater need for the cover. 
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So BoS doesnt need to refund everything 
Miss H paid for it. However, BoS has already paid Miss H back some of the cost of the PPI 
as part of its review of the commission Miss H paid. I dont think it needs to do anything 
more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman