DRN-2405213
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc declined their 
subsidence claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J had a leak from their shower. A claim was made but during the drying process 
cracks appeared. RSA arranged a surveyor and discovered that the cracking was caused by 
subsidence. The cracks were repaired at the time but following a full investigation RSA said 
no further claim for subsidence damage would be dealt with. It said the policy exclusion for 
faulty design and workmanship applied as the damaged extension foundations hadnt been 
built deep enough. Damage continued and Mr and Mrs J brought their complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said Mr and Mrs J had done everything they 
needed to when the extension was built. Our investigator said the builder had amended the 
foundation design to comply with building regulations. He noted that the extension got the 
required planning permission, was appropriately signed off as compliant and certification had 
been issued. So, our investigator said it wasnt poorly designed or defective according to the 
building control inspector. He said RSA needed to deal with the claim and pay Mr and Mrs J 
£500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience for the difficulties this had caused 
them.
RSA didnt accept this and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the actions of Mr and Mrs J at the time when they arranged to have the 
extension built. Its clear that they followed all the requirements placed upon them by local 
council building control procedures and planning permission for the extension was granted. 
Mr and Mrs J acted entirely reasonably when they had the extension built and 
understandably expect to have their claim dealt with by their insurance policy.
Its accepted that the extension foundations went down to around 1.2metres. And this seems 
to be slightly deeper than the builder originally suggested. Based on the details on file this 
was done to ensure that the foundations were at a level suitable for the building control 
inspectors requirements. RSA dont appear to deny this. All parties accept that the 
stipulations laid down by building control were met when the foundations were dug. Building 
control did sign off the work and issued certificates to confirm the requirements had been 
met. So, in terms of making sure theyd followed requirements, got suitable checks done, 
and arranged the correct paperwork Mr and Mrs J did everything they were required to do.
Based on this I dont think RSA has acted fairly and reasonably when it declined the 
subsidence claim. RSA know how building control works and indeed in its response to our 
investigators view on this case it said  The role of the building officer is to ensure that the 
construction complies with the plans submitted and the consent granted from the relevant 
authority, along with ensuring that the minimum foundation depth has been complied with. 
So, RSA is in writing confirming that it knows the property extension built for Mr and Mrs J 
was done in line with building control requirements.
So, I dont think its fair or reasonable for RSA to apply the exclusion for defective or faulty 
workmanship. RSA should deal with the subsidence claim.
Subsidence claims do take a long time to resolve. But RSA didnt offer to put the matter right 
despite it being clear that Mr and Mrs J had acted entirely correctly during the building of the 
extension. This would only have added to the impact the claim had on Mr and Mrs J and the 
distress and inconvenience caused to them. RSA should pay Mr and Mrs J £500 as 
compensation for this.
Putting things right
deal with the subsidence claim;
pay £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to:
deal with the subsidence claim;
pay £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr and Mrs J accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 January 2021.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman