DRN-3197862
The complaint
Mr H complains that a car he agreed to hire was misrepresented to him by Care by Volvo 
Car UK Limited (Care) and says it would be fair for him to receive compensation for the 
resulting distress and inconvenience this caused.
What happened
Mr H was keen to acquire an electric car and so undertook research into various makes and 
models. He decided that a particular make and model would suit him, due to the high 
specification and features it came with, particularly regarding driver safety.
Mr H says he made enquiries at a dealership but, when discussing the cost of purchasing 
the car, was advised that he may wish to look at the Care website and consider hiring a car 
for three years instead. Mr H says he thought this would be a good solution because he was 
aware new and better models would be launched in the future.
In March 2021, having looked at Cares website, Mr H placed an order online for the model 
of car he wanted. A three-year hire agreement was then sent out to Mr H, which he signed 
and returned. The hire cost per month was set at £634.
Care then contacted Mr H to introduce itself and welcome him. During this call Mr H learnt 
that the version of the car hed thought hed ordered was different. He was told the car hed 
agreed to hire was a later version with lower specifications, though he was assured it was 
very similar to the first edition. However, there then followed a number of conversations and 
calls between Care and Mr H, during which the specifications of the car hed ordered were 
further detailed to him. Mr H says he was disappointed when informed of the features that 
would come with the car, and that he wouldnt have agreed to hire it if hed known the car 
didnt have the specifications of the first edition model.
Mr H complained to Care and said he had entered into a legally binding contract with it for 
the hire of the original version of this model of car, which came with the higher specification. 
He said the car had been misrepresented and Care were in breach of contract.
Care said the first edition model had originally been available at a higher monthly cost (£899 
per month) but, when the later edition became available, due to its lower specification, it had 
been able to reduce the hire cost to a starting price of around £615 per month. It said that, 
although the first edition remained available to purchase from the dealerships, from February 
2021 only the later edition was available to hire from its website and not the first edition 
model. 
Care said that ts website wouldnt have stated that it was the first edition that had been 
ordered by Mr H, though it accepted the website also didnt specify it was the later version 
either. It agreed that it was an unclear journey when using its website to order this 
particular model of car. Care said that, following its investigation into Mr Hs complaint, the 
website had been amended so that full specification of what was included with this car was 
now available. It said that, once contact had been made with Mr H, the specifications of the 
car ordered had been made clear to him.
Care said that a further version of the car was due to be made available in the coming 
months, and that this newer version came with specifications closer to the first edition that 
Mr H had wanted to hire. However, there would be a difference in the monthly rental fee, as 
this newer version would be more expensive, costing £749 per month. Care said that if Mr H 
wished to put in a new order for this car, as a gesture of goodwill, it would offer to cover the 
difference for one month between the rental cost for the original car and the higher rental 
cost for the newer version, amounting to £115. Care disagreed that there had been a breach 
of contract, or that the car had been misrepresented to Mr H.
Mr H was unhappy at Cares response and it was agreed that he could cancel the hire 
agreement for the car without any penalty. 
Mr H complained to this service. He said that the only specification of this model of car 
available to the public was the first edition, which had a higher specification than the later 
version hed been told hed actually agreed to hire. Mr H said it had been clear to him that, in 
the absence of being given a full specification set out in the hire agreement, the car hed 
agreed to hire was the first edition model and not the later version. 
Mr H also said that, during the introductory discussion with Care, hed been reassured that 
the cars specification was similar to the first edition, but it had later become clear this wasnt 
correct. He said he couldnt afford to pay the higher costs involved in acquiring the newer 
version of car. Mr H said hed been caused significant distress when dealing with this matter.
Mr H said he thought a fair resolution would be for Care to pay him the difference between 
the cost of hiring the second version and the newer version of the car, for the full three years 
that the agreement had been set for, making a total payment of £4,140.
Our investigator disagreed that there had been either a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation of the car, at the time Mr H had entered into the agreement. He said that, 
although he accepted there had been a false statement about the features of the car at the 
start of the conversations with Care, Mr H had already signed the contract at this point, so 
thered been no false statement of fact that had induced Mr H to enter into the agreement. 
Our investigator also said the edition of the car and its features wasnt set out in the hire 
agreement, so it couldnt be said the car that was being supplied was in breach of that 
contract.
In regard to any compensation, our investigator said that, as the cars specification had been 
clarified relatively quickly, he didnt think this was appropriate and fair in the circumstances.
Mr H disagreed with our investigators view. He said he didnt think it was fair that the 
bungling and unprofessional behaviour of Care should go unpunished. Mr H said that, at the 
time hed signed the contract there had only been one specification available to the public, 
so it had been proper for him to assume that the car covered by the contract had that 
specification. He said he had been induced into signing the agreement by Cares failure to 
provide him with a different specification for the car.
Mr H said he had then been told that the cars specification had been the same as the first 
editions, except for one item. He said this information had formed part of the contract. Mr H 
said he wouldnt have signed the contract for a car that had a lower specification.
Mr H said that if the first edition wasnt available, then Care should have offered him a car 
that came with a similar specification but at the same monthly hire cost set out in the signed 
hire agreement. He said that the failure to provide him with a car as agreed by the contract 
had caused him financial loss, because hed had to keep his current car longer than 
intended, resulting in maintenance costs and that its value had depreciated due to time.As the parties hadnt reached an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that Mr H undertook detailed research when he decided he wanted to acquire an 
electric car, and that he took time to identify the make and model of car that would meet his 
requirements. I think Mr H was clear in his mind about the exact car he wanted to acquire 
when he visited Cares website.
However, although Mr H says that there was only one specification of this model of car 
available to the public when he ordered it via the website, this doesnt appear to have 
actually been the case. Care says that a newer version had come out in February 2021, 
which had a lower specification and, in consequence of that, a lower hire cost. Ive also seen 
that the first edition model was no longer available via the Care website at the time Mr H 
ordered the car.
Mr H didnt speak to Care at the point he placed his order for the car, or before hed signed 
the hire agreement. It was after hed done both of these things that there was the 
introductory call with Care. The actual specification and features of the car Mr H had agreed 
to hire then became clear via a series of communications between him and Care.
Mr H feels strongly that there has been a misrepresentation of the car. However, for me to 
be satisfied a misrepresentation has occurred I would need evidence that there had been a 
false statement of fact made by Care which induced Mr H to enter into the agreement. While 
its not disputed that the website is unclear as to what specifications came with this model of 
car, Im aware that it didnt categorically state that the car Mr H was ordering was a first 
edition model. This is also corroborated by the hire agreement itself which, although showing 
the model of the car, doesnt set out that it is a first edition. The agreement is silent as to the 
specification and features that will come with the car. 
Mr H says that he relied on his own personal knowledge about the specification that was 
available to the public at the time for this model of car. I therefore dont think this means I 
can reasonably say that Mr Hs belief was based on anything said by Care, either before or 
at the time he entered into the agreement.
So, although I appreciate Mr H feels very strongly the car was misrepresented to him by 
Care, and that he was induced to enter into the contract due to a lack of information, Im 
afraid I dont think, from the evidence I have seen, that I can say a misrepresentation has 
occurred. I dont know why Mr H was unaware that another version had been added to that 
model and/or that this version had a lower specification than the first edition. But it appears 
there were actually two versions of this model available to the public at the time Mr H 
entered into the hire agreement. And that only the second newer version, with the lower 
specification, was available via the Care website. Ive seen Care accepts that its website 
wasnt clear about the version that was available and has now amended the information that 
is provided. 
As I think its reasonable to say Mr H was relying on his own knowledge when he ordered 
the car, rather than on information given to him by Care, then I cant reasonably say a false 
statement of fact was made by Care. Nor can I say that this false statement induced him to 
enter into the hire agreement. I think its fair to say that the lack of clarity as to the specific 
model being ordered may have given rise to confusion.I appreciate Mr H was later told by Care that the car hed ordered was close in specification 
to the car hed thought hed be receiving, though he subsequently discovered this wasnt the 
case. And, although this was disappointing for Mr H, I disagree that this conversation formed 
any part of the contract as it had occurred after hed signed the agreement. I accept though 
that this will have left him feeling frustrated and disappointed. But I also think its fair to note 
the specification of the car was quite quickly corrected.
Mr H says that, as the first edition car wasnt available to him for hire, then he should have 
been provided with a car that had a similar specification to that car but for the same cost as 
originally agreed. Mr H says he feels this would be fair based on the contract between him 
and Care being for a car that had the first edition specification. But, as I dont think I can 
reasonably say the hire agreement was for the first edition model, I wouldnt have expected 
Care to have made this offer to Mr H and disagree that this would have been a fair 
settlement for his complaint.  
I accept Mr H wouldnt have ordered the car if hed been aware of the specification it came 
with. And so, I think it was fair that the agreement was cancelled without any penalty for Mr 
H, particularly as Care accepts its website wasnt clear as to the actual model being ordered. 
Cancelling the agreement and putting Mr H back in the position he would have been had he 
not entered into the contract, was a fair and proportionate response from Care.
Mr H has asked for compensation in the amount of £4,140, but Im afraid I dont think thats a 
reasonable outcome in these circumstances. I appreciate Mr H was disappointed and 
frustrated to learn the car with the specification he wanted wasnt available for him to hire, 
having at first thought that it was. And that to hire another car, closer to the specification of 
the first edition, would have had a higher monthly hire which he says he couldnt afford. But 
Care clarified the model of car that it would be supplying to Mr H under the agreement within 
a few days. And when it became clear Mr H hadnt wanted this model of car the agreement 
was duly cancelled. I think Care acted fairly when cancelling the agreement. 
As there was no breach of contract or misrepresentation here, then I dont think, when 
looking at all the circumstances, that compensation is warranted for Mr H. I think the 
cancelling of the contract was a fair and reasonable response by Care and I wont be asking 
it to do more.
I note Mr H has had to keep his original car longer than hed planned, and he says this has 
led to unexpected maintenance costs and a depreciation of the value of that car due to age 
and use. But Mr H was clear he wouldnt have entered the agreement if hed known the 
version of the car that he was hiring. So, I think its reasonable to say that, by cancelling the 
agreement, Mr H is in the same position he would have been in had the website been 
clearer because he would have still had to search for a different car to hire. I dont think Mr H 
has therefore been caused any financial detriment in these circumstances.
For the reasons given above, and although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr 
H, Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Jocelyn GriffithOmbudsman