DRN-3499944
The complaint
Mr C says that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) acted irresponsibly by allowing him to increase 
his overdraft limit to £5,000. He says Lloyds failed to carry out the correct credit checks.
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Cs concerns and didnt think there was anything in 
the information Mr C provided on the overdraft applications or within his account history 
which suggested he wouldnt be able to repay his overdraft within a reasonable period of 
time and didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong or treated Mr C unfairly. 
Mr C disagreed, he says if Lloyds had done the correct credit checks it would have seen he 
had defaults and had only finished paying off a debt management plan. So the complaint 
was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including the 
key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive referred to this 
when deciding Mr Cs complaint. Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail. 
Lloyds needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Lloyds needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr C 
would be able to repay what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income 
was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the 
greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Lloyds did what it needed to before 
agreeing to Mr Cs overdraft. Mr C was given what was an open-ended credit facility. So 
overall this means the checks Lloyds carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to 
understand whether Mr C would be able to repay his overdraft within a reasonable period of 
time. 
Lloyds says Mr C had an initial overdraft of £250 in September 2017 which had increased to 
£5,000 by December 2018. Mr Cs initial overdraft application was fully credit scored taking 
into account information Mr C provided about his income and how Mr C had managed his 
accounts held with it, as well as information held by other lenders provided through credit 
reference checks. And based on this information Lloyds was satisfied his score was high 
enough to provide him with the overdraft facility and limit he requested. 
I accept that Mr C may well have had defaults recorded on his credit file but I can see that at 
the time his initial overdraft was approved the defaults were a few months prior to this and 
given the amount being lent was relatively low (£250). So I dont think Lloyds was 
irresponsible in approving the overdraft.
And having reviewed Mr Cs bank statements for the period of when he was first granted his 
overdraft of £250 up to the last increase of £5,000, again, I dont think Lloyds acted 
irresponsibly by approving the limit increases. Lloyds say the limit increases were based on 
the conduct of the account and as the defaults were historical (over a year old), they 
wouldnt have impacted the increases. The statements show the incomings and expenditure 
declared on the applications by Mr C equated to what is shown on the statements and in the 
applications where no expenditure was declared Lloyds have told us it estimated the monthly 
minimum repayments on what Mr C owed.
I can see that although the overdraft facility was used the account mainly showed a credit 
balance until September 2018 and had a healthy level of incomings into the account and that 
even after September overall the overdraft was reducing. I can also see and that there were 
some large gambling transactions out of the account following the last increase in December 
2018 and payments in the thousands to an investment company which I think suggests Mr C 
wouldve been able to repay his overdraft within a reasonable period of time.
I accept that Mr Cs financial position may well have been worse than the check carried out 
showed or in any information he disclosed to Lloyds at the time. And it is possible that further 
checks might have told Lloyds this. But Lloyds was reasonably entitled to rely on the credit 
checks it carried out and given the conduct of the account and the credits going into the 
account, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Lloyds to conclude Mr C would be able to 
repay the additional funds within a reasonable period of time. 
Id also expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer 
irresponsibly. As I mentioned above following the last increase, I can see that there were 
large payments out to an investment company and gambling transactions - but Mr C was still 
well within his overdraft limit. So I cant see anything on the statements themselves which  
show Lloyds ought to have known Mr C was struggling financially before he contacted it 
about this. And following this Lloyds assisted Mr C by putting a stop on the daily overdraft 
interest and consolidating his overdraft debt into a loan in March 2019. 
This is in-line with what Id expect a bank to do when contacted by a customer who is 
financially struggling, so Im satisfied the action Lloyds took in the circumstances was 
appropriate. And I dont think that Lloyds treated Mr C unfairly or unreasonably which means 
that Im not upholding this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman