DRN-3822460
The complaint
Ms L is unhappy with the settlement offers shes received from Fairmead Insurance Limited
(Fairmead) following several claims made under her contents insurance policy. Shes also
unhappy with the service shes received from Fairmead.
What happened
Ms L has a home insurance policy, and the contents insurance cover is underwritten by
Fairmead. In June 2018 Ms L made multiple claims for damage to various items in her
home.
Between making the claims in 2018 and 2021, Fairmead made various offers to settle the
majority of the claim. Alongside those offers, they also declined a claim for accidental
damage to a therapeutic bed.
Overall Ms L was unhappy with the settlement offers made, the decline of the bed claim, and
Fairmeads handling of things. So, she approached this service.
Our investigator looked into matters. He issued several assessments on the complaint due
to ongoing responses from both Fairmead and Ms L which changed things in part each time.
Ultimately the investigator concluded:
One wardrobe claim settlement should be increased from £749 to £849 on the 
basis it was a more reasonable match to the original i.e. bigger rather than 
smaller. But he also thought the matching sets settlement offer for this was 
already reasonable. He didnt recommend any further interest be paid on this 
settlement either.
The other wardrobe and matching sets claim he felt had been settled fairly, so he
didnt ask Fairmead to do anything further.
He said he was persuaded with Fairmeads conclusions that damage to the bed 
was caused by wear and tear, so he didnt think they had unfairly declined that 
part of Ms Ls claim.
He thought Fairmead had offered a reasonable settlement for both carpet claims, 
so he didnt recommend they increase this. He also didnt agree that there should 
be matching sets settlements.
That Fairmead should pay the increased sofa settlement they had previously 
offered and add 8% interest. Fairmead agreed and made payment. However, he 
later noted Ms L had said the price had increased since that settlement amount 
had been originally proposed, so he recommended the settlement be increased 
to take this into account. But he didnt recommend further interest be paid. He 
also said he wouldnt be asking Fairmead to cover the old furniture removal costs 
as the policy didnt cover it.
He noted one of Ms Ls letters hadnt been responded to by Fairmead, so he 
recommended they apologise for this.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide.
I reached a different outcome to our investigator on some parts of the case, so I issued a 
provisional decision to give both parties an opportunity to respond to my initial findings, 
before I reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision. Ive reached a different outcome of what is fair and
reasonable in some aspects of this case, so I wanted to give both parties an 
opportunity to respond to my provisional findings before I reach my final decision.
Ms L is unhappy with the service shes received from Fairmead since making her 
claims in 2018 and has raised a number of concerns since then. However, I dont 
intend to comment on every event or issue that occurred. Instead Ill focus on what I 
consider to be the key issues relevant to reaching a decision which is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. I dont mean this as discourtesy to 
either party, rather this reflects the informal nature of our service and my role within 
it. But Id like to reassure both parties that Ive considered all the information theyve 
provided when reaching my provisional decision even if I havent commented on it 
specifically.
As there are a number of points Im considering, for clarity Ill address each in turn.
The settlements offered
Ms L has made six separate claims for damage to various items in her home. All but 
one claim (accidental damage to a bed) have been accepted and offers of settlement 
have been made. These are summarised as follows, after the excess deduction:
Damage to a bedroom carpet  £87.65 (and 8% interest totalling £16.48)
Damage to a different bedroom carpet  £87.65 (and 8% interest totalling 
£16.48)
Damage to a wardrobe  and matching undamaged items - £1,095 (and 8% 
interest totalling £205.92)
Damage to a wardrobe in another bedroom  and matching undamaged items 
- £1,418.98 (and 8% interest totalling £266.85)Stain to sofa  and matching undamaged items  originally £999.97 (and 8% 
interest totalling £118.05)  this has since been increased and Ill talk about 
this below
Damage to a therapeutic bed  declined by Fairmead
Ill address each separately below, along with some wider complaint points.
The items listed against each claim
Before I go on to consider each of the claims individually, Ms L has more recently 
said that she thinks Fairmead has incorrectly, and interchangeably, used the claim 
reference numbers for the separate wardrobe claims and mixed up the matching 
items associated with each. She says this is breaching rules and regulations and 
treating her unfairly.
Having looked at all the information, it does appear that at some points the matching 
items against the wardrobes have been mixed up. But given there were six claims 
running simultaneously, with separate correspondence relating to each ongoing at 
the same time, its not overly surprising that at some points things have been mixed 
up due to the complexity and overlap. But in any event, overall, I dont think this has 
caused detriment to Ms L or the claims. Ill explain why when I consider each of the 
claims below.
However, given each claim is separate, it is important that Fairmead has accurate 
records which reflect that. So, if my final decision remains the same as my 
provisional decision, Ill be directing Fairmead to amend their claims records to 
ensure each item and settlement is recorded correctly against each claim.
What do the policy terms say?
Ms Ls main argument around why the settlement proposed by Fairmead isnt 
sufficient is that she alleges they havent complied with her policy terms. She says 
Fairmead hasnt settled the claim in line with the like for like replacement clause in 
her policy. And when Fairmead has made settlement offers, Ms L has provided 
details of what she says is like for like replacements for the damaged items, 
generally at a much higher cost than that which has been offered by Fairmead.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Ms Ls policy. And whilst some policies 
across the wider insurance market do have like for like clauses, with their own 
specific wording for what this means in practice, Ms Ls policy doesnt actually 
contain a like for like clause written in her policy wording as she alleges - and uses 
for the basis of most arguments about the settlements.
So, I cant agree with Ms L when she says that Fairmead hasnt complied with, or 
breached, her policy terms and conditions by what she says is failing to offer like for 
like replacements in line with a clause which isnt in the policy.
Instead Ms Ls policy says:
In the event that your contents are lost or damaged, if the lost or damaged 
item is part of a set and we cannot repair the damaged item or arrange an 
exact replacement we will replace the whole set as new.So, where Ms L has made claims for damaged items, where there is a matching set 
and the damaged item cant be replaced, she has cover to replace the item and any 
matching sets items.
It also says:
You will receive new for old cover on all your contents (where repair or 
replacement is not possible) including clothing and linen, however we may 
take off an amount for wear and tear if the cost of replacing all your contents 
as new is more than the sum insured shown on your schedule at the time of 
loss or damage.
This means an old item will be replaced with a new item. For example, a ten-year-old
television would be replaced with a new one, rather than one which is ten years old.
But the above is different to a like for like clause - which is central to most of Ms Ls
arguments about why the settlements shes been offered arent sufficient. If it was 
like for like, then in this scenario, a ten-year-old television would be replaced with a 
ten-year-old television.
But to expand on this point, Ms L wants Fairmead to replace her items (and the 
matching sets) with exact like for like replacements. Shes said this needs to be 
exact replacements including size, specification, dimensions, capacities and features. 
But as I say, Ms Ls policy doesnt contain a like for like clause. Instead it has a new 
for old clause, which means old items will be replaced with new. But it doesnt say 
they will be replaced with an exact same replacement for that which was damaged.
And the fact that her policy has a matching of items clause already takes into account 
what will happen if an exact item cannot be replaced  which is why it then says the 
remainder of the set needs to be replaced to take this into account and to ensure the 
new item matches the rest. If the policy required an exact replacement of the original 
item, there wouldnt need to be a matching sets clause as there wouldnt ever be a 
loss of match.
When considering whether Fairmead has acted fairly and reasonably when offering
settlements, Im considering whether they have acted in line with the policy terms and
whether they have offered a reasonable settlement based on a similar reasonable 
new for old replacement (and matching items if appropriate), rather than an exact 
match of every specification of the damaged item.
The carpet claims
Two claims were made for carpet damage in separate bedrooms. Fairmead accepted 
both claims and offered settlements of £87.65 and £87.65. They also offered 8% 
interest on each totalling £16.48 on each.
Ms L has submitted quotes for £659.01 for each room. She says this is like for like 
carpet. She also says that Fairmead should also include in the settlement carpet in 
the hallway and stairs under the matching items cover in her policy (totalling an 
additional £659.09).Fairmead says they have offered settlement based on their assessment of the 
existing carpet which Ms L currently has. This included the fibre content, ply, stitch 
count, gauge, pile height, backing type, weight and construction. Whilst Ms L has 
provided a quote for replacement, I havent seen anything which demonstrates or 
explains why this was a more reasonable similar replacement than that which 
Fairmead is basing settlement on. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think the carpet 
settlement offer made by Fairmead is unreasonable.
Ms L has also raised concerns that Fairmeads settlement offer is only for the actual 
carpet and doesnt include the fitting or associated costs.
Having looked at the settlement offers for the carpet made by Fairmead, based on 
what Ive seen, this does include the moving of furniture, uplift and disposal of the old 
carpet and fitting. Whilst the actual settlement is only £87.65 for each room, this is 
after the £150 excess has been removed from the total of each claim.
Fairmead also included 8% interest from date of loss to April 2021 when the 
settlement was sent. As Im minded to conclude the settlement was reasonable, Im 
not minded to direct them to do anymore in relation to the carpet claims.
Ms L also says the hallway and stairs carpets should be replaced too as they form 
part of a matching set with both bedrooms, as the same carpet runs throughout. 
However, whilst it may be the same carpet, there are breaks between the bedrooms 
and hallway and stairs. So, I dont consider this to be a set, as each room and area 
is already separated. Therefore, Im not minded to direct Fairmead to cover the 
hallway and stairs.
Damage to wardrobe claims
Two separate claims were made for damage to wardrobes in separate bedrooms, 
and Ms L also claimed for matching items for other bedroom furniture in each room.
As Ive mentioned above, Ms L complains that the wardrobes and corresponding 
matching items have been mixed up. Ive explained above that Im minded to direct 
Fairmead to adjust their records, so that this is correct.
And Ill be considering these claims and corresponding items the correct way round  
which Ms L has confirmed. But I should also confirm, that whilst they may have been 
mixed up at times, I dont think this has detrimentally impacted on the overall 
settlement offers. Ill explain why below.
Both claims have been accepted, along with the matching of items for other bedroom
furniture. But again here, the argument Ms L presents is that the settlement offer isnt 
based on like for like. She says this on the basis of the sizes, capacities, dimensions 
and one wardrobe is fitted with locks. She has also disputed the matching items 
settlement offers, again on a like for like basis, and this relates to the number of, 
and capacity of, drawers, the size and style of dressing table, corner unit and stool 
size and design.
Ultimately Fairmead has offered:
For one bedroom £1,418.98 (and 8% interest totalling £266.85)
For the other bedroom £1,095 (and interest totalling £205.92)Ms L has obtained quotes for a bespoke furniture set totalling £6,127 for one 
bedroom and £6,109 for the other, so in excess of £12,000.
But as Ive mentioned above, here Im considering whether settlement has been 
based on a reasonable replacement, new for old, not an exact replacement. In short, 
Im minded to conclude Fairmeads offered settlement is in line with this.
The wardrobes Fairmead are basing settlement on are both from the same range 
from the same retailer. Initially Ms L disputed one wardrobe was sufficient in size as it 
was 150cm in width. She proposed a wardrobe with a width of 200cm. But this was 
from a completely different range, and at a much higher value.
Our investigator considered things, and he said there was a 200cm version of the 
same 150cm model that Fairmead had suggested, at an additional £100 cost. He 
said Fairmead should increase the settlement by £100.
In response Ms L disagreed it was like for like. She also said 200cm was too big and 
would be unlikely to fit. However, Ms L originally proposed to Fairmead a 200cm 
wardrobe, from a different range, at a much higher cost. When our investigator then 
proposed settlement based on a 200cm wardrobe of the same model as the original 
150cm that Fairmead had offered, Ms L then said the size was too big, even though 
she had also proposed a 200cm different model previously.
But in any event, as I say, what Im considering here is whether a reasonable 
settlement has been offered by Fairmead, not an exact replacement in every feature, 
dimension and capacity. Here I think the offer by Fairmead of the 150cm wardrobe 
was a reasonable replacement settlement. But as Fairmead didnt disagree with 
increasing settlement to be based on the 200cm wardrobe value as recommended by 
the investigator (which Ms L had originally said was the right size, but later disputed 
when it wasnt the model she wanted) Im not going to suggest Fairmead pay less 
than this and lower the settlement as this would be of detriment to Ms L. And I think 
that the additional £100 effectively compensates Ms L for a slightly smaller wardrobe, 
and Im minded to conclude that is fair and reasonable in the circumstances here.
I also think the settlement offer for the other wardrobe is also a reasonable 
replacement to base settlement on. As I say, I recognise it isnt an exact replacement 
in terms of every specification, but Im satisfied its a fair offer in the circumstances.
As Im minded to conclude the 150cm settlement offer was reasonable, albeit Im 
saying Fairmead should actually settle on the basis of the cost of the 200cm, I dont 
intend to increase the 8% interest Fairmead already offered for this part of the claim.
Having reviewed the remainder of the settlement offer for the matching items, Im 
also satisfied those are reasonable offers. Again, they arent exact like for like 
replacements, for example, one unit has five drawers, but the settlement basis is a 
similar unit with four larger drawers, and a similar corner unit alternative has been 
proposed.
As Im satisfied that Fairmead offered a reasonable settlement for the wardrobes and
matching items claims, Im not minded to direct them to settle based on Ms Ls 
bespoke quotes totalling over £12,000, or to increase the interest theyve already 
offered on the settlement.As I mentioned above, it does appear that at points the matching items vs wardrobe 
claims have been mixed up. So, Ill be directing Fairmead to rectify their records if my 
final decision remains the same as my provisional decision. But Im not minded to 
conclude this had any effect on the claim settlement. I say this because both 
wardrobes included in the settlement offers were for the same range, from the same 
retailer, so whichever way round they were, this wouldnt have changed things 
beyond how it was recorded.
However, I do note that as part of the matching set settlement, this didnt include a 
mirrored dressing table. Ill address this separately below.
Mirror
Whilst Ive concluded the settlements and matching sets offered by Fairmead are 
reasonable new for old replacements to base settlement on, I do note that the old 
dressing table had a mirror. And whilst Im in agreement the settlement for the table 
itself is reasonable, it doesnt have a mirror.
Therefore, if my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, Ill be 
directing Fairmead to also offer settlement for a mirror. If cash settling, 8% interest 
should also be added from the date of loss to date of settlement as this hasnt been 
included previously. However, I should make it clear here that the mirror settlement is 
something that Ms L and Fairmead will need to discuss directly outside of this 
complaint - after my final decision has been issued. Im not asking either party to 
make settlement offers/negotiations in response to my provisional decision.
I say this because Ms L has rejected and counter argued every settlement offer thats 
been made throughout, and negotiations have needed to take place between both 
parties. Our service isnt a claims handler on behalf of either party, so our role isnt to 
be involved in the settlement negotiation as a middleman. This is why Id be directing 
Fairmead to offer settlement for the mirror. If an agreement cant then be reached on 
whether that settlement offer is reasonable, then Ms L may be able to refer a new 
complaint to this service about that specific point - once Fairmead has made its final 
offer.
Ill also clarify here that whilst the mirror appears built-in previously, to pre-empt the 
same arguments that have been raised for all other items, I dont think in principle it 
would be unreasonable for an after-market separate mirror to be offered, assuming it 
was a reasonable replacement. The same point applies as above, that new for old, 
rather than exact like for like replacement, is what the policy terms cover.
Sofa claim
A claim was made for damage to Ms Ls sofa and matching armchairs under 
matching sets. There has been ongoing communication and negotiation over the 
appropriate settlement. Ms L, like she has with the other claimed items, presented 
alternatives to the settlement offered by Fairmead which she says is like for like.
Following ongoing discussion, Fairmead, via their agents, offered an increased 
settlement totalling £3,647 after excess deduction in January 2020. But following 
further communication, this was reduced to a previous offer totalling £999 (with 8% 
interest totalling £118.05) - based on different furniture.Our investigator recommended Fairmead should settle in line with the higher offer of 
£3,647 they had previously made. He also said Fairmead should pay 8% interest on 
the settlement from date of loss to date of settlement. Fairmead accepted this and 
more recently sent the increased settlement to Ms L including interest totalling 
£948.34 after tax deduction.
At that point it appeared that part of the claim was no longer disputed and was 
resolved. However, when trying to purchase the replacement furniture, Ms L found 
the price had increased from that original offer made in January 2020 of £3,647 after 
excess to £4,197, leaving a difference of £400 after excess.
If Fairmead had paid that original offer of £3,647 when made in January 2020, then I 
would be satisfied that was reasonable. However, Fairmead didnt. They reduced the 
offer to £999 which then meant Ms L wasnt able to accept this in settlement of the 
sofa claim.
Its only since our investigator became involved that Fairmead recognised the 
confusion and reverted back to that increased offer from 2020. So, given this, Im 
minded to conclude that Fairmead also need to pay the additional amount the 
furniture has increased (£400) as Ms L wasnt unreasonable in rejecting that £999 
reduced offer, and this is the earliest point shes been able to accept settlement. 
Fairmead will also need to recalculate the 8% interest to take into account the full 
amount for the settlement, and from date of loss to date of the final remainder of the 
settlement (the £400 difference) being paid.
In addition, Ms L has also raised concerns that shed be charged for the removal of 
the old furniture. Our investigator said her policy didnt specifically cover that. 
However, regardless of that, I think it is part of the claim settlement in Ms L replacing 
her sofa following a claim under her policy. The delivery of the new furniture is free 
according to the invoice Ms L has received, but shes been quoted £110 for removal.
Therefore, if my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, Ill be 
directing Fairmead to pay the cost of old furniture removal totalling £110. If Ms L has 
already paid for this to happen and evidences it, Fairmead should also add 8% 
interest from the date the invoice was paid to the date of settlement.
Therapeutic bed
Ms L has made a claim for what she says is accidental damage to a therapeutic bed.
Fairmead inspected the bed and deemed the cause of damage to be wear and tear, 
which is excluded under Ms Ls policy. So, they declined this part of Ms Ls claim.
Ms L says the bed damage was caused when it was dropped whilst being moved. 
Ive listened to the call recording from when this claim was reported, and this also 
outlines the same cause of damage. So, Ms L disputes the bed was damaged as a 
result of wear and tear. Ms L also contacted a representative of the manufacturer and 
provided images of the damage, and they concluded:
Looking at the pictures this does not look like wear and tear, the machine 
has obviously been dropped wear and tear would show down the middle of 
the grey sheet not at the side.Our investigator said they were persuaded by Fairmeads wear and tear assessment 
of the damage, as they actually inspected the bed. However, Im not minded to 
agree. The report carried out by Fairmeads agent is very brief, it concludes that the 
damage has been caused by wear and tear, but theyve not demonstrated how or 
why theyve reached that conclusion. As Fairmead is looking to rely on an exclusion 
to decline the claim, theyd need to demonstrate it applied, however based on what 
Ive seen I dont think theyve done so.
In addition, the conclusion reached by the manufacturer agents explains their opinion 
of how damage would have been caused, and this is consistent with Ms Ls reporting 
of what happened. And having seen the images, Im also persuaded with their 
conclusions that it is accidental damage related, rather than wear and tear.
With this in mind, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my 
provisional decision, Im minded to direct Fairmead to reconsider the bed claim in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of Ms Ls policy.
Fairmead will need to take into account the policy terms, which as Ive mentioned, 
includes a new for old clause (if an item cant be repaired or replaced). And for any 
cash settlement, Fairmead should also add 8% simple interest from date of loss to 
date of settlement. Whilst there were multiple claims ongoing at one time, I can 
understand why Ms L has been unhappy with the claim decision reached on this 
item, and I think Fairmead should compensate her for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
But I also need to take into account that it doesnt appear this was a regularly used 
item by Ms L  given the duration between damage and being reported  so the 
impact of that decision and not having the claim settled sooner here is reduced. 
Having taken everything into account, Im minded to conclude £50 compensation is 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Interest
To be clear here in my provisional decision, Fairmead offered the settlements with 
interest Ive outlined above in April 2021. These settlements were then issued to Ms 
L. As I understand it, Ms L didnt actually cash the settlements at the time as she 
didnt agree with them  and its likely given the time passed that these cheques 
would have expired.
However, whilst Fairmead will likely need to reissue the cheques, unless Ive said 8%
interest should be for different periods above, Fairmead wont need to increase the 
interest on those items where Ive said the settlement was already fair. This is 
because they issued settlement at that point, and whilst Ms L didnt agree, it wouldnt 
be fair for me to direct Fairmead to pay additional interest solely due to the time 
elapsed when that original offer was fair at that time.
Not replying to a letter
Ms L has complained that Fairmead didnt respond to her letter in January 2020 
about the decline of her bed. Shes said Fairmead has breached relevant rules and 
regulations by not responding. And shes said this has caused her distress and 
inconvenience, and she says she should be compensated for this.However, Ms L was in continued communication with Fairmead throughout, disputing 
the other five claims which were ongoing. And I cant see that Ms L chased this with 
Fairmead but had many opportunities to do so. She also didnt raise this complaint 
point with us until much later into our investigators investigation.
So, whilst I accept it wasnt responded to, I cant see that this has caused Ms L 
distress as alleged. Ms L could have raised this further but didnt and didnt do so in 
her complaint initially to this service either. So, for me to direct Fairmead to provide 
compensation here, would in my view effectively be punishing them for that failure, 
and thats not the role of this service. Instead we recommend compensation for the 
impact caused, and I cant see that this has impacted Ms L.
Having said that though, Ive provisionally decided that I was minded to conclude 
Fairmead reached the wrong claim outcome for that item, and Ive provisionally 
directed them to reconsider that claim in line with the remaining policy terms, and to 
pay 8% interest along with compensating Ms L £50. So, I think thats sufficient for 
that part of the claim, even though Fairmead didnt respond to that letter.
No ID, didnt call ahead and hasnt supplied qualifications
Ms L has said she requires an explanation why Fairmeads agent didnt provide ID or 
call ahead as they were supposed to. And she wants to know what qualifications he 
had. Fairmead has explained feedback would be given. I think thats enough in the 
circumstances so Im not going to ask them to do more in relation to this complaint 
point.
The policy changed to Fairmead
Ms L has complained that she wasnt told the policy had changed to Fairmead when 
the previous insurer was taken over. Ms L says this is a breach of regulations and 
consumer rights resulting in unfair treatment. And that she should be compensated 
for this.
Fairmead has explained that the change was being communicated to customers at 
renewal, it had no impact to a policyholder and the terms of the policy and cover 
were unaffected. I think that explanation is reasonable, and Im not going to ask them 
to do more in relation to this complaint point.
Therefore, I was provisionally minded to uphold the complaint in part and to direct Fairmead 
to:
Amend their claims records to ensure each item and settlement is recorded correctly
against each claim
Add £100 to the relevant wardrobe claim settlement
Offer settlement for a mirror, and add 8% simple interest from date of loss to date of
settlement if cash settled
Increase the sofa settlement amount by £400
Recalculate the 8% interest applied to the sofa to take into account the full settlement 
amount, from date of loss to date of settlementPay £110 for the old furniture removal, and if Ms L evidences she has already paid
this, add 8% simple interest from date of payment of the invoice to date of settlement
Reconsider the bed claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions, and add
8% simple interest from date of loss to date of settlement if cash settled
Pay £50 compensation
The responses to my provisional decision
Fairmead didnt respond by the deadline in my provisional decision.
Ms L responded but she didnt agree with my provisional decision. Ms L provided a detailed 
response, which Ive summarised the key points:
The carpet settlements - Ms L believes the carpet settlements arent sufficient and 
dont take into account the associated costs. She says a thorough inspection wasnt 
carried out and the quote is biased as it was made by a company on behalf of 
Fairmead. 
Ms L also maintains that she should receive loss of match for the carpets in the 
hallway and stairs. 
Ms L says that a fair and reasonable settlement offer hasnt been made and if 
Fairmead dont accept her quotes provided, she should be given more time to source 
alternatives that are, in her view, a more reasonable settlement.
The wardrobe and matching item claims  Ms L disputes that a reasonable 
settlement offer has been made. She says the amounts arent sufficient for an exact 
replacement. For example, one of the wardrobes doesnt have a lock, there is a 
difference in drawers, capacity and that the dressing table doesnt have a built-in 
mirror. Ms L said those original offers wouldnt be sufficient based on current costs 
and she also said the costs associated with removing and replacing the old ones 
havent been included either.
Ms L has also provided revised quotations, totalling around £6,000 and she says this 
is 50% less than the previous quote she provided, so she says this is the amount 
Fairmead should settle the claims for.
Ms L also outlined that she has a right to reject a settlement if she thinks its inferior.
The sofa claim - Ms L said she agreed with my provisional decision on this point
Damage to a therapeutic bed  Ms L said she agreed with my provisional decision 
that Fairmead need to address this. She also provided a quote for £3,620 to replace 
it, and a quote for removal and disposal at a cost of £60. Ms L says this is the 
amount Fairmead should settle the claim for, and that she requires 8% interest to be 
added.
Ms L also said the claim was presented at the same time as others, and it was then 
rejected by Fairmead. She said she complained but Fairmead werent responsive 
and she says she cant be held responsible for delays due to Fairmeads reluctance 
to engage.Ms L says that as a result of not being able to use the therapeutic bed, it posed a 
detriment to her health and wellbeing which resulted in joint and back stiffness, which 
may have contributed to a fall and hospitalisation. She says that if Fairmead had 
engaged sooner, it would have prevented detriment and personal injury, so she says 
she requires additional compensation beyond the £50 I outlined in my provisional 
decision.
The items listed against each claim  Ms L agrees with my provisional decision that 
items have been mixed up against each claim. But she says this has caused her 
detriment due to the increased administrative burden.
The policy terms  Ms L says she interprets new for old to be like for like but says in 
any event she cant see how it would diminish any parts of her claim.
The policy changed to Fairmead  Ms L says that she thinks there may have been a 
breach of data protection. She said this may be something which Fairmead wishes to 
consider separately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and taking into account the detailed response to my provisional decision, 
my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision. 
I detailed the reasons in my provisional decision for reaching the outcome I did. So, I dont 
intend to revisit every point again separately unless there is anything further I feel I need to 
add, or elaborate on, as a result of the response to my provisional decision. 
For the other points Ive not specifically revisited below, my final decision on these points 
remain the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons. This includes how 
and when interest should be added (and why I havent said it should be increased on part of 
the settlement) and the remedy for the mirror that wasnt included.
The policy terms
Ms L says she interprets like for like and new for old to be the same, and she says she cant 
see how it would diminish her claim.
I commented on this point in my provisional decision above, and my views on that remain 
the same and for the same reasons, so I wont revisit that again here.
The carpet settlements
In my provisional decision, I said I was satisfied Fairmead had offered a fair and reasonable 
settlement and I explained my reasons for that. And my decision on this point remains the 
same.
I also outlined why I didnt consider the carpets in the bedrooms and hallway and stairs a 
set, and my decision on that also remains the same.The wardrobe claims
I acknowledge Ms L has provided revised quotes for items she believes are suitable 
replacements, and this totals around £6,000, rather than £12,000.
However, I explained that I was satisfied the offers already made by Fairmead were fair and 
reasonable and that was taking into account the differences, such as capacity, drawers, and 
features such as locks. And I explained that I was considering whether Fairmead had based 
this on a reasonable replacement, rather than an exact match.
I also outlined the size difference, and that the additional £100 I was recommending 
effectively compensates Ms L for that. My view on this point remains the same and that this 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I should add that Ms L has disputed the amounts previously offered by Fairmead that I 
outlined in my provisional decision. Ms L seems to be indicating these amounts should be 
increased to todays prices (although she still doesnt agree that is reasonable in any event). 
But to be clear here, Ive considered what was offered previously by Fairmead and whether 
that was fair and reasonable at the point it was offered  which Ive decided it was.
On the same note as the interest section in my provisional decision, Fairmead offered the 
settlements I outlined in April 2021. These settlements were then issued to Ms L. 
I recognise Ms L might not have cashed the settlements at the time as she didnt agree with 
them. However, whilst Fairmead may need to reissue the settlement cheques due to the 
time that has passed, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to direct Fairmead to increase those 
amounts on the basis prices may have changed since then. This is because Fairmead did 
issue settlement at the time - and that offer at that time was already fair.
Ms L has mentioned the settlements dont include the costs associated with removing and 
replacing the old items. However, this is something that Ms L would need to approach 
Fairmead with in the first instance. Unlike some of the items (the sofa for example), Ms L 
hasnt provided any quotes specifically for this  beyond costs already built into quotes for 
new items from her preferred suppliers  which Im not directing Fairmead to cover. 
So, if Ms L believes there will be an associated cost specifically, and she is able to evidence 
it, she should provide this to Fairmead to consider. If Ms L remains unhappy once Fairmead 
has done this, we may be able to consider that separately as a new complaint.
Ms L has also said she is entitled to reject a settlement if she doesnt agree with it. My role 
here is to decide what I consider is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
That is what I have done here. If Ms L doesnt agree with my final decision, it is up to her to 
decide whether she wishes to accept it or not.
The sofa claim 
This remains the same as in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons. Ms L 
confirmed she agreed with this, so I wont revisit that in detail again. 
But to clarify, I explained the reasons I was recommending an increase in the settlement 
amount of this item (and interest). The difference between this item and the wardrobes 
claims that I havent increased to todays price is because the sofa settlement wasnt fair 
when offered  unlike the wardrobe claims which was.Therapeutic bed
Ms L has provided a quote for replacing the therapeutic bed totalling £3,620. She said an 
additional £60 should also be added for removal. And she said she requires 8% interest to 
be added.
I outlined in my provisional decision that Fairmead would need to reconsider this claim in line 
with the remaining terms. And for any cash settlement they would need to add 8% interest 
from date of loss to date of settlement.
Therefore, Im not going to direct Fairmead to pay the amount Ms L has asked for at this 
stage, as Fairmead will need to reconsider matters in line with the remaining policy terms, 
which include repair as possible option under the terms of her policy.
If Ms L is dissatisfied once Fairmead has considered this and set out its final position on that 
item, we may be able to consider that as a new separate complaint.
Ms L has also said there has been detriment and personal injury due to the delay in the 
claim settlement for this item, and that she shouldnt be held responsible for Fairmeads lack 
of response. However, there has been no evidence provided to support that Fairmead was 
solely responsible for the injury that occurred. 
And whilst I note Ms L has said she shouldnt be held responsible for Fairmeads lack of 
response, I also commented on this point more widely when I considered Fairmead not 
responding to Ms Ls letter. This includes Ms L not raising this further despite being in 
continued communication with Fairmead about the five other ongoing claims. And my 
decision remains that £50 compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
The items listed against each claim
Ms L says this caused her detriment as a result of the additional administrative burden. 
However, I do need to take into account that Ms L made six claims simultaneously. She also 
disputed every offer of settlement made and proposed what she thought would be fairer. 
Whilst the items may have been mixed up at points, Ms L would always have been disputing 
the settlements whichever way round they were, so this would have always created 
administration for her, along with the natural large volume of administration required in 
making six simultaneous claims  and disputing them. 
So, having considered everything, Im not going to direct Fairmead to pay compensation for 
this point.
The policy changed to Fairmead
I outlined my view of Fairmeads communication of this point in my provisional decision and 
this remains the same.
Ms L has also said Fairmead may want to consider whether it has breached data protection 
when changing. If Ms L would like Fairmead to look into that specific allegation, she would 
need to raise it with them directly as this hasnt been specifically considered or addressed by 
Fairmead.My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Fairmead Insurance 
Limited to:
Amend their claims records to ensure each item and settlement is recorded correctly
against each claim
Add £100 to the relevant wardrobe claim settlement
Offer settlement for a mirror, and add 8% simple interest from date of loss to date of
settlement if cash settled
Increase the sofa settlement amount by £400
Recalculate the sofa 8% interest to take into account the full settlement amount, from
date of loss to date of settlement
Pay £110 for the old furniture removal, and if Ms L evidences she has already paid
this, add 8% simple interest from date of payment of the invoice to date of settlement
Reconsider the bed claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions, and add
8% simple interest from date of loss to date of settlement if cash settled
Pay £50 compensation
*If Fairmead Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms L how much its taken off. It should 
also give Ms L a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman