DRN-2948000
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs A complain about how Tesco Underwriting Limited handled a claim made on 
their motor insurance policy. Mr S is a named driver on Mrs As policy. Mr S asked for 
£1,200 compensation. 
What happened
Mr S was involved in an incident and made a claim to Tesco. But he was unhappy with its 
delays in progressing the claim, its communication with him, its level of service and that it 
didnt provide him with a copy of dashcam footage of the incident. Mr S said the stress of the 
claim had affected his health.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought 
Tesco had progressed the claim reasonably and any delays were due to it awaiting 
responses from the other insurer. She thought its communication with Mr S hadnt been poor 
and that it didnt lie to him. 
The investigator thought Tesco had tried to provide the dashcam footage, but this couldnt 
be viewed by Mr S. And so she thought it should have done more to provide this to him and 
that it should pay Mr S £150 compensation for this delay. But she thought its complaints 
handling, medical assistance and provision of calls recordings had been fair and reasonable. 
Tesco agreed to pay Mr S £150 compensation. But Mr S replied that he wanted an 
ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
Mr S said Tesco should have identified his vulnerability and responded appropriately. He 
said he had to provide documentation twice whilst suffering after the accident. He thought 
Tesco should have responded better to his requests for updates. He said Tesco had 
contacted his wife about the claim even though hed asked it not to. Mr S thought £150 
wasnt sufficient compensation for the delays in the claim and the effect it had on him.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Mr Ss ill-health. I can understand that the trauma of the accident 
and the stress of making a claim has made this a very difficult time for him and his family. As 
our investigator has already explained, claims can be stressful at the best of times. So Ive 
looked to see how Tesco handled his claim and whether it could have done things to provide 
a better service in keeping with his policys terms and conditions. 
Ive considered all the complaint points that Mr S has listed in his complaint to us. But my 
focus will be on what I think are his main concerns: delays in the claim; poor communication; 
poor customer service; and, not providing the dashcam footage. 
Mr S was unhappy that Tesco caused delays in the claim. I can see that there was a delay in 
Tesco closing the claim whilst it waited for the other insurers outlay. But I cant see that this 
affected Mr S as he already knew the claim outcome. 
I can see that Mr S was keen to have the claim sorted. But, from looking at Tescos file, I 
think it progressed the claim in a reasonable way. Mr S was unhappy that Tesco asked for 
his version of events and diagram on more than one occasion, saying that it hadnt received 
these when they had already been sent. 
I can see that Mr S was given conflicting information about whether Tesco had received his 
documents. I can understand that this must have been frustrating. But it was waiting for 
responses from the other insurer at the time. So I dont think this delayed the claim. 
Mr S wanted Tesco to chase the other insurer frequently, even daily. But I dont think this 
would be reasonable. I think it reasonably prompted the other insurer when needed. So I 
cant say Tesco caused any avoidable delays in the claim. And so I dont require Tesco to 
compensate Mr S for any delays.
Mr S was unhappy that Tesco contacted his wife when he asked it not to. I can see that 
Tesco contacted Mrs A on one occasion as it didnt have Mr Ss email address on the policy 
and so it needed to make sure that Mrs A, as the policyholder, was content for it to use this 
address. I think that was fair and reasonable. I can also see that Tescos legal service and 
repairer contacted Mrs A when they had been asked not to. Tesco apologised for this error. I 
think an apology was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr S said Tesco didnt refer him for medical assessment immediately. But I can see that 
when he reported the accident, he declined to discuss any injuries. When he later changed 
his mind, I think Tesco responded appropriately. I think Tesco promptly referred him to its 
legal service when he decided to pursue this. I can see that Mr S has raised a separate 
complaint with the legal service. I cant consider that here.
Mr S said Tesco didnt respond to all his emails or return calls when it said it would. But I 
cant see evidence of this in the file. I can see that at times Tesco was unable to speak with 
Mr S on the phone and so left a voice message. But I think it responded promptly to his 
requests for information. Mr S wanted to be updated frequently. But I wouldnt expect Tesco 
to contact him unless it had something new to tell him. 
Mr S said Tesco should have recognised and responded to his vulnerability. But I cant see 
any evidence that Tesco responded inappropriately or without empathy. From its 
correspondence and calls, I think it treated Mr S fairly and reasonably.
But I agree with the investigator that Tesco should have done more to ensure that Mr S was 
provided with a viewable version of the dashcam footage. This was the basis of its decision 
to hold Mr S at fault for the accident. And so I think it understood that viewing the footage 
was important to him. 
Mr S has been waiting a long time to see the footage. The investigator recommended that 
Tesco should pay Mr S £150 compensation for the trouble and the upset caused with its 
failure to provide this for him after agreeing to do so. I think thats fair and reasonable as its 
what Id require in similar situations. 
Mr S thought Tesco hadnt provided all the recordings of his calls with it. Our investigator 
checked the calls provided against Tescos files up to the point Mr S made his subject 
access request. She couldnt identify any that were missing from those provided to Mr S and 
ourselves. She asked Mr S for further information about any he thought may be missing. But 
he hasnt provided further evidence for me to consider. So I cant say that Tesco did 
anything wrong. 
Mr S was unhappy with Tescos response to one of his complaints. It provided a detailed 
response to his concerns, but it didnt provide access rights to this service. When Mr S 
asked for this, I think Tesco responded promptly and provided these referral rights. From 
what Ive seen, Mr S was satisfied with the response at the time. I cant see that he told 
Tesco that he didnt think all his points had been covered. So I cant say that Tesco acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. Putting things right
I require Tesco Underwriting Limited to pay Mr S £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by it not providing a viewable version of the dashcam footage as it 
had promised. And I require Tesco to request this dashcam footage from the other insurer if 
Mr S would still like to receive it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Tesco Underwriting Limited to carry out the redress set out above, as its already 
agreed to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman