DRN-3677502
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Santander UK Plc wont refund him money he lost as a result of a 
fraud.
What happened
Mr L held an account with Santander. In 2020, Mr L received a friend request via an online 
social media platform. The person making the request to connect wasnt known to Mr L, but 
did have mutual business-related contacts.
Mr L accepted the request and began conversing with the third-party. Initially, the third-party 
wanted Mr L to assist in him obtaining products related to the field in which Mr L worked. But 
eventually, after several months of being in contact, Mr L and the third-party began 
discussing the trading that the third-party posted on their social media page.
Mr L says that he initially transferred the third-party a payment from an account he held with 
another banking provider. And as he could see his investment was doing well, he decided to 
invest further. Additionally, the third-party claimed to have a car selling business, and as 
Mr L needed a new car, he also agreed to send money to him for this. Mr L agreed to pay 
£14,000 for both the car (£12,500) and the investment (£1,500).
On 17 August 2020, Mr L attempted to transfer partial payment of £8,000 to the account 
details provided by the third-party, but this was blocked by Santanders fraud prevention 
systems as the payment was out of character for the account. After several discussions 
between Mr L and Santander, the blocks were removed.
On 26 August 2020, Mr L successfully made two payments totalling £14,000 (£8,000 and 
£6,000) to the account details provided by the third-party. But approximately seven months 
after hed made the payments, Mr L became aware that the third-party was in fact a 
fraudster. So, he reported the matter to Santander.
Santander considered Mr Ls claim under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM 
Code): a voluntary code it has signed up to. Having done so, it decided to hold Mr L liable for 
the payments made. In summary, it concluded that Mr L hadnt carried out sufficient checks 
on the person the money was sent to, or the purpose of those payments. It also found that 
he ignored warnings it provided when the payments were blocked.
Mr L disagreed, so he referred his complaint to our service where it was considered by an 
Investigator. The Investigator concluded that Santander hadnt made an error in holding Mr L 
liable. In summary, they felt that Mr L should have been concerned around some of the 
elements surrounding the circumstances of the investment, car purchase and third-party he 
was dealing with.
Mr L disagreed, so the matter has now been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required 
to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Ive also thought about the Lending Standards Boards voluntary CRM Code, which 
Santander has signed up to and was in force at the time Mr L made the payments subject to 
this dispute.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is victim of an Authorised Push Payment (APP) fraud except in a small number of 
circumstances. Relevant here, this includes where a customer made a payment without 
reasonable basis for believing that the person the customer was dealing with was legitimate 
or where a customer ignored an effective warning.
While I understand Mr Ls frustrations and acknowledge he has been the unfortunate victim 
of a fraud here, having considered all the relevant evidence, Im satisfied Santander has 
demonstrated that these exceptions to reimbursement apply here.
Mr L has made some reasonable arguments regarding his basis for believing the third-party 
was a genuine, trustworthy person. Hed spoken with them on several occasions via 
telephone and video calls over the course of a few months. The third-party had conducted 
business with Mr L and provided personal identity and proof of address documentation. Mr L 
had also reached out to mutual business contacts and obtained testimonials. 
While I agree with Mr L that these points do work in his favour, I must also consider the flip 
side of these facts and circumstances around their meeting, the proposals made, and the 
warnings given by Santander.
Mr L was approached unexpectedly by the third-party on social media. He had no known 
history with them and Mr L knew no-one on a personal basis that could vouch for the third-
partys character and legitimacy. Furthermore, while the third-party did have a company 
registered with Companies House, this was in a different name to the one contained within 
the paperwork sent and had only been incorporated shortly before their meeting. I also find 
that Mr L should have taken more time to consider the offers being proposed.
In relation to the purchase of the car, I have seen no evidence regarding the checks Mr L 
carried out to confirm its legitimacy. Mr L has provided no evidence regarding the cars 
existence or the deal/contract drawn up between him and the third-party. Nor have I seen 
any communication between them discussing the purchase. What I do find compelling is that 
the contracts drawn up for the cryptocurrency investment match the amounts transferred by 
Mr L. However, Mr L has informed our service that these agreements were changed and 
remains adamant that a majority of the money was for the purchase of the car. Considering 
this, I dont find Mr L has been able to evidence that he carried out sufficient due diligence 
when checking if the seller, or the product being purchased, was legitimate.
In relation to the investment, while Mr L had previously invested funds via the third-party, he 
hadnt yielded any tangible profits. While his online platform suggested hed made money on 
his initial investments, these hadnt been paid back to him at any stage. Furthermore, when 
Mr L went on to make the further payments, he was informed by the third-party that hed missed out on over £90,000 in profit as a result of the blocks placed by Santander. This was 
in my view unrealistic in the circumstances when considering the amount to be invested over 
a short time period. 
Mr L has, since the Investigators view, told our service that he made this up, but I find it 
difficult to conclude this is the case considering Mr Ls changing testimonies about numerous 
elements of his complaint. 
Mr L was warned about this in the calls he had with Santander. He was told on two 
occasions that the profit margin being promised was well outside what could be considered 
realistic. And when asked about what cryptocurrency Mr L was investing in, Mr L didnt 
answer the question, suggesting hed not conducted any meaningful research into this. I find 
that basic research on cryptocurrency values after the concerns raised by Santander would 
have led Mr L to see that these figures didnt add up.
Having listened to the calls between Mr L and Santander representatives, it would seem that 
rather than Mr L heeding the warnings he was given, he instead became dissatisfied that he 
was being told what he could and couldnt do with his own money. This led to Mr L telling the 
representatives a number of things that he has now admitted to being false. 
He falsely told the bank that hed personally known the third-party for more than two years 
and that part of the money being transferred was later said to have been for the purchase of 
a vehicle rather than his first reason, which was that it was entirely for a cryptocurrency 
investment. He also claimed hed seen the vehicle in person. Mr L has also told Santander 
that hed received no coaching or pressure to lie to the bank but had been dishonest 
previously because he was frustrated with the process of having his funds released.
This eventually led to Santander permitting the blocks to be lifted and for the transfers to go 
ahead; something I find to have been reasonable in the circumstances considering the 
reassurances given by Mr L.
However, Im satisfied that from the point Mr L contacted the bank and was warned about 
the specific circumstances around his investment that he no longer had a reasonable basis 
for belief regarding the investment. The warnings provided by Santander should have 
caused Mr L to seriously question the legitimacy of the third-party he was dealing with and 
conduct further research on the claims being made by them. 
While I know this may come as a disappointment to Mr L, I dont find Santanders decision to 
not reimburse him to be unfair in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman