DRN-2228516
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy Quickly Finance Limited, trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) is charging 
him a fee for a payment protection insurance claim (PPI), that he said he didnt authorise 
them to make. He said his son made the PPI claim for him with his lender.
What happened
Mr B said his son made a PPI claim with his lender, using an on-line service before the 
August 2019 deadline for making PPI claims. And said hed received confirmation that his 
claim had been made. 
And in December 2019,  Mr B was told by his lender that his claim was successful and the 
amount of compensation hed be paid. Mr B said a few days later he had an invoice from 
FTR asking him to pay their fee as his claim had been successful. Mr B complained to FTR 
as he said hed never asked them to submit a claim for him as he hadnt returned the 
documentation, they had sent to him. 
FTR said Mr B had asked them to carry out a free PPI check, and hed signed a letter of 
authority (LoA) in July 2019 authorising them to act on his behalf to make a PPI claim. FTR 
said theyd submitted his claim to his lender, and as their agreement with Mr B hadnt been 
cancelled, their success fee was justified.
Mr B wasnt happy with FTRs response, he said his lender had told him theyd had no 
contact from FTR since the initial PPI check was made. He referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator said FTRs terms were clear in that they said theyd submit a PPI claim after 
the end of the free PPI check. But went on to say that FTR had made further requests to 
Mr B for information. And their terms implied Mr Bs claim wouldnt be submitted without the 
completion of these documents. As Mr B hadnt returned the documents, he said FTR should 
waive their fee. And for the trouble and upset this had caused, FTR should pay Mr B £100 
for trouble and upset.
FTR didnt agree and said the LoA, Mr B had signed, authorised them to make the PPI claim 
on his behalf. And the further information was only asked for to strengthen his claim.  FTR 
asked for an ombudsman to decide.
I Issued a provisional decision in September 2020 that said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im minded to uphold this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Bs frustration as I can see he made a PPI claim using a free on-line 
service, and he gave the information needed to progress his claim. But in making my 
decision I need to determine whether Mr B had authorised FTR to act on his behalf. And if 
he had, whether he let them know he no longer wanted them to work for him. 
FTR has shown an online application for a free PPI check was made in July 2019. The 
personal details in this application correlate with the personal details Mr B has given this 
service. The application also needed details of Mr Bs lenders, and these details were
provided. So, on balance I think  Mr B completed the on-line form as the information was 
specific to him. On completion of the application, an LoA was generated for each lender and 
these were signed. FTRs terms and conditions were also available to see. And in signing 
the LoAs Mr B had agreed to them. 
FTRs terms and conditions say:
Free PPI Check Period:
a. FTR will use reasonable endeavours to request the Company confirm whether PPI existed 
on any accounts which You held with them by making a Pre-submission or DSAR
b. If no PPI is identified this Agreement will come to an end but this Agreement will continue 
on any accounts where a Company has confirmed You had PPI.
They go on to say:
Preparing and Submitting Your Claims;
a. Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and you authorise FTR to
continue to provide You with the Claims Services 
b. If further information is required from You prior to submitting a Claim(s), FTR will
endeavour to contact You and You agree to provide reasonable assistance and information
to allow Us to submit a Claim{s) on Your behalf
Mr B did have a PPI policy with his lender and FTR asked Mr B to complete further 
documentation. Mr B didnt return the documents as his son had submitted a PPI claim for 
him using the free on line service as outlined above. I dont know the exact date but I think 
its clear this claim was made before the deadline date. 
I can understand why Mr B says he made the claim himself. And that he didnt think hed 
authorised FTR to act on his behalf as he didnt respond to their requests for further 
information, but its not enough that he simply disengaged from the process. And FTRs 
terms and conditions specifically explained that the agreement would continue if PPI was 
found. So, I think it was for Mr B to have told FTR if he no longer wanted this to happen. 
FTRs notes say in early September 2019:
The online PPI Questionnaire has not been completed by the client therefore a blank copy 
has been sent in the post. If this is not returned within 40 days the case will be cancelled.
I can see Mr B told FTR later the same month that hed made a claim himself, and FTR 
agreed to call him back to discuss further. But I cant see any evidence of this call having 
been made. And Mr Bs case was closed by FTR in October 2019 because a letter of 
complaint (LoC) hadnt been generated. But, in November 2019 this decision was changed 
by FTR as they said it had been done in error. But I think the case was reopened because 
the lender hadnt needed a LoC as they had decided to  auto convert Mr Bs complaint.
FTRs  terms and conditions say:
You may cancel Your Claim(s) at any time within 14 days from the date you sign the Letter 
of Authority (Cooling-off Period) at no cost to you unless you or FTR have received a 
reasonable offer of compensation within the Cooling Off Period.I think the 14 day Cooling Off Period was considered by Mr B to be the date FTR would 
have submitted his claim to his lender. And he thought the claim hadnt been submitted as 
he hadnt responded to any of FTRs requests for further information. And Im satisfied when 
he called FTR in September 2019, Mr B  was clear he didnt want them to act on his behalf 
as hed made a claim himself. 
So, I dont think FTR should have reopened the case because theyd been told by Mr B hed 
claimed himself, and didnt want FTR to act for him. And this was done before any award of 
compensation was made by Mr Bs lender. 
Im satisfied Mr B cancelled his agreement in September 2019 as an LoC hadnt been 
submitted and he had effectively opted out of the agreement. So I dont think its fair or 
reasonable for FTR to charge their success fee as I dont think they were authorised to act 
on behalf of Mr B, and so should waive their fee.
responses to my provisional decision
Mr B made no further comments and accepted my provisional decision.
FTR didnt accept my provisional decision and said the cancellation call made in September 
2019 was with Mrs B and not Mr B. They said they werent able to go through any security 
checking as Mrs B said it wasnt a convenient time to talk. FTR said the request to cancel 
must be made by the named person on the claims and they didnt have any evidence to 
suggest that Mr B made a request to cancel around this time.
 
They confirmed Mr Bs claim was cancelled in error in October 2019.  And said the case was 
cancelled as a Letter of Complaint (LOC) had not been submitted to the lender, but this was 
not necessary due to the auto-conversion process adopted by the lenders in the run up to 
the PPI deadline. When this error was identified, the claim was re-opened and this was done 
because no request to cancel had been received from Mr B.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive not been persuaded to change my thinking and Im upholding this 
complaint.
I can understand FTRs stance that they need to be satisfied that its Mr B who wanted to 
cancel the agreement, and its a pity this wasnt resolved in the call made in September 
2019. But I dont think this changes what the clear intention of the call was, that Mr B didnt 
want them acting on his behalf as another service was being used. And the notes FTR refer 
to in their comments said a call back would be done by them to discuss this further. But this 
didnt happen. If it had happened, Im persuaded that the relevant security would have been 
undertaken and Mr B would have had the opportunity to confirm he wanted the agreement 
cancelled. 
FTRs terms and conditions say that theyd be entitled to charge their success fee on any 
claims where a lender agrees to award compensation after the 14 day cooling-off period. 
FTR say the 14 day cooling-off period starts the day a letter of authority is signed. But FTRs 
terms and conditions also allow for a period when their success fees wont be charged.
 The definition of Free PPI Check Period within FTRs terms and conditions say that You 
will never be charged a Fee(s) during the Free PPI Check Period. I can see that FTR knew 
the claim had been auto converted in September 2019, before the call was made to cancel 
Mr Bs agreement. But as FTR didnt inform Mr B his claim had been auto converted, I think 
Mr B would have been of the understanding he was still within the Free PPI check period 
when his wife called to cancel the agreement. 
FTRs notes say in October 2019:
The PPI Questionnaire/Missing Information has not been returned therefore no LOC can be 
created. Case cancelled. Should the client return the Questionnaire at a later date we can 
proceed with the case.
FTR has said the claim was cancelled in error as Mr Bs claim was auto converted. But I 
dont think it was reasonable for FTR to do this without informing Mr B that this was the case 
especially given it was clear Mr Bs intention was to cancel his agreement, in September 
2019. From what I can see of the claim, FTR submitted a request for information to Mr Bs 
lender but I cant see any other claims service activity was done, as FTR didnt submit a 
letter of complaint as the lender auto converted.  I think, in FTR offering a claims service 
that is chargeable after the free PPI check ends, I think it would be reasonable to expect 
them, when they had an opportunity to do so as they did in this case, to update Mr B so hed 
know when the free period would end. But again, this didnt happen.
I think in failing to call Mr B back, and in not doing any further work on his claim other than to 
ask for their fee after his lender offered compensation several months later. And the fact that 
Mr B did try to cancel FTRs service before finding out about any successful claims, I dont 
think its reasonable or fair for FTR to charge their success fee on any successful claims. 
And by not calling Mr B back as they said theyd do, this did cause trouble and upset for Mr 
B. So I agree with our investigator that £100 should be paid for poor customer service
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Quickly Finance Limited, trading as Fast Track Reclaim to
waive their success fee and
pay Mr B £100 for trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman