DRN-2109393
The complaint
Mr K complains that his insurer, Wakam unfairly declined his claim and cancelled his 
commercial motor insurance policy, saying he had misrepresented his circumstances.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr K took out a commercial motor insurance policy with Wakam, via an 
intermediary by phone to cover his driving work. This followed an online quote hed obtained.
Wakam said the agent confirmed the information Mr K entered for an online quotation. The 
agent then asked which council he was licensed for, and then, Do you hold a badge for 
work for any other council? to which Mr K said No. 
Wakam sent Mr K the policy documents including a covering letter which stated, You must 
provide a fair presentation to us about your details and circumstances, even if we have not 
specifically asked about an area we should be aware of when quoting your policyIf you 
deliberately or carelessly provide incorrect or incomplete information, this could mean that 
we do not pay all or part of any claim you make.
Wakams policy states Where we arrange insurance wholly or mainly for purposes related to 
your trade, business or profession you have a duty under The Insurance Act 2015 to make a 
fair presentation of the risk. This means that youmust disclose every material 
circumstance which you know or ought to knowIf you fail to make a fair presentation, the 
insurer may refuse to pay your claim or reduce the settlement amount, apply different terms, 
charge an additional premium, or avoid your policy depending on the circumstances. 
Wakam sent Mr K a Statement of Fact to confirm his policy is based on his license for the 
council he disclosed. The Statement requested Mr K to check the details of his cover and tell 
Wakam if the information is incorrect. Mr K didnt correct any of the information he had given.
Mr K had an accident in February 2020 and engaged an accident claim firm but later claimed 
under his policy as the third party wasnt co-operating. Wakam requested a list of his jobs in 
the week before the accident. Mr K sent details of 29 jobs and said hed worked for a ride-
sharing app. Wakam said all were completed 45 miles outside Mr Ks licensing area and he 
hadnt disclosed this work and the premium didnt reflect the risk. Wakam repudiated Mr Ks 
claim and cancelled his policy following a 7-day notice and refunded his unused premiums.
Mr K said he hadnt understood Wakams question thinking he only needed to say he was 
working in another area if he had a licence for that area. But Wakam said its agent was clear 
that it sought disclosure of other licences held, or if Mr K worked in other areas. Wakam said 
there were four calls with Mr K, and he hadnt said that he didnt understand the question.
Mr K complained to Wakam about its decision to cancel his policy. Wakam maintained its 
repudiation of his claim and cancellation, and Mr K brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt think Mr K had deliberately misrepresented the facts, but thought hed 
acted carelessly. He said Wakam accepted that Mr K hadnt fully understood its question 
about working in other areas and said it would have charged a higher premium had it known 
the correct risk. He said the law requires insurers in these circumstances to pay the claim in 
a similar proportion to the premium paid as to the correct premium. He said it could deduct 
the premium refund from this and said it was fair for Wakam to cancel Mr Ks policy. 
Wakam said Mr K had deliberately given incorrect information as all of his jobs were outside 
of his licensed council area and he knew he had no intention of carrying out work there. 
Wakam said it considered this to be a deliberate breach, which under the law, entitled it to 
cancel the policy and not deal with Mr Ks claim. Wakam said it had treated Mr K fairly by 
returning unused premiums. Wakam requested an ombudsman review the complaint. 
The investigator remained of the view that the misrepresentation wasnt deliberate. He said 
the question was asked very quickly, so its fair to say Mr K may not have fully understand 
the question or its implications. And his duty of fair presentation hadnt been explained to 
him at that point. He said the policy documents dont refer to the question or his answer, so 
Wakam hadnt done enough to show that Mr K made a deliberate misrepresentation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
References to Wakam include insurance intermediaries.
The relevant law in this case is The Insurance Act 2015. This places a duty on the insured to 
make a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer when taking out an insurance contract (a 
policy). This means Mr K had to disclose either:
everything he knew, or ought to know, that would influence the judgment of an
insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms;
enough information to put an insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries 
about potentially material circumstances.
 
Wakam thinks that Mr K failed to make a fair presentation of his risk when he answered the 
question (see above) about where he works. Mr K hasnt said he did any work in the area in 
which hes licensed. In answer to my questions he said it was convenient to get a licence 
where he did as he was thinking of moving to that area. Mr K hasnt moved or done any work 
in the area he disclosed, and I agree with Wakam that he hasnt made a fair presentation of 
his risk.
And if the insured fails in their duty to make a fair presentation, the insurer has certain 
remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what the Insurance Act describes as - a 
qualifying breach. For it to be a qualifying breach the insurer has to show it would have 
offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the insured hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
Wakam said its policies are based on the area of work disclosed as the potential for being 
involved in an accident, or the risk of a claim is higher in some areas than others and the 
question is important due to other flexible work available to drivers via ride-sharing apps. 
Wakam has referred to its underwriting guidance which it says reflects on the areas where 
Mr K has worked as being higher risk than where he said he would work and says it would 
have charged a higher premium had it known. This means Im satisfied Mr Ks breach of the 
duty under the Insurance Act was a qualifying one.
The remedy available to the insurer under the Act depends on whether the qualifying breach 
was deliberate or reckless, or careless. The Insurance Act states: A qualifying breach is deliberate or reckless if the insured knew that it was in breach of the duty of fair 
presentation, or did not care whether or not it was in breach of that duty. It is for the insurer 
to show that a qualifying breach was deliberate or reckless. 
Wakam said its question was clear, and Mr K responded with a clear and deliberately 
incorrect answer. It said The Insurance Act requires that the customer provides a fair 
presentation of the risk, which Mr K had failed to do, even though it had been specific on 
wanting to know if he works in other areas. 
Ive looked at Mr Ks circumstances when the policy was taken out and the information he 
gave. He told us that he wanted to work for the ride-sharing app as he could work anywhere 
with them, but he also thought he might be moving to the council area where he obtained the 
licence. Its clear he should have disclosed the ride-sharing app work but also clear that he 
didnt need to obtain a licence in a particular area away from his home unless that had some 
potential relevance to his work. 
Ive listened to Mr Ks call with the agent and the question about work in other council areas 
was put very quickly. He didnt hold a licence for another council and answered accordingly. 
Although I agree with Wakam that he should have said he works in other areas or at least 
checked for the correct response, I dont think the question was as clear as Wakam says it 
was. It would have been easy for Wakam to follow this with a question about work for ride-
sharing apps or other employers, but it didnt. Having considered Mr Ks circumstances, I 
dont think Wakam has shown that his response was deliberately misrepresented.
In conclusion, although according to the duty placed on him under the Act Mr K ought to 
have declared working in other areas, I can understand why he didnt do so. Consequently, I 
havent found that Wakam has shown that his misrepresentation was deliberate, and I 
consider it more likely to have been careless. 
As I consider Mr Ks misrepresentation to have been careless, I have looked at the remedies 
available to Wakam under the Insurance Act. The Act says that if the insurer can show a 
qualifying breach was deliberate or reckless, it can avoid the policy, refuse any claims and 
retain the full premium. But if not the breach is considered careless. In which case the 
insurer would then need to consider what it would have done differently if not for the breach.
Wakam said if it wasnt for the breach of duty it would have charged Mr K a higher premium 
and set different terms on his policy. In other words, it would have acted differently. The Act 
says that if the insurer would have entered into the contract on different terms, the contract 
is to be treated as if it had been entered into on those different terms if the insurer so 
requires. So Wakam should consider how those different terms affect Mr Ks claim or cover.
The Act also says if the insurer would have entered into the contract but charged a higher
premium, the insurer should pay the claim  but it may reduce proportionately the amount to
be paid. The Act sets out that this proportion should be based on what premium the insurer
would have charged if not for the breach. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ks policy allow Wakam to cancel the policy by giving seven 
days notice, and says it will refund any unused premiums less cancellation charges. It also 
says the premium will be payable in full if a claim has arisen. Wakam gave Mr K the required 
notice of cancellation and refunded the unused premium minus its cancellation charges. I 
think Wakam has treated Mr K fairly concerning the cancellation of his policy. 
I agree with the investigator that Wakam should deal with Mr Ks claim for damage to his car. 
And  as the Act reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases - I think requiring Wakam to follow the requirements of the Act produces the fair and reasonable 
outcome in this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint in part. I require 
Wakam to apply the terms it would have applied to Mr K without the breach of duty, and 
then:
 
calculate what premium it would have charged Mr K if the breach hadnt occurred, 
and
pay a proportion of his claim based on what percentage of the correct premium it did 
charge him.
Because I think the cancellation of Mr Ks policy is fair, Wakam can also deduct the premium 
refund it has paid Mr K from the claim settlement.
I do not require Wakam to remove the cancellation of Mr Ks policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman