DRN-3938144
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct are unable to repay him two 
payments which were made to an unrecognised account.
What happened
Mr M says he set up a bill payment to pay his daughter. He says this was in the payees he 
had made before section and he had made several successful payments to her account over 
the years. He said he tried to pay her £1,000 on 24 May 2022, but this never reached her 
account. He says when he contacted First Direct about this, he also found out that £168 had 
also been sent on 4 March 2022, which also had not reached her account. First Direct 
attempted to reclaim these payments totalling £1,168, but they were unsuccessful in doing 
so. Mr M made a complaint to First Direct. 
First Direct did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. They gave him details of how to request all 
relevant information from the recipient bank, but they said they were unable to recover this 
money. They said to clarify, both payments were set up by Mr M and made via online 
banking. First Direct said that all of the other payments he made to his daughter previously, 
apart from these two payments were made to a different sort code and account number to 
the two payments that werent received by her. Mr M brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. She said he made a payment of £430.11 
to his daughter via online banking using bank details that hes used before. But during the 
same log on session he also set up a new beneficiary and made a payment of £168 to his 
daughter using different details. Using these different details, he made a further payment of 
£1,000 on 24 May 2022. She said First Directs records show he set up the payments 
himself online and there was no bank intervention. She said they tried to recover the funds 
for him as wed expect them to do but theyd been unsuccessful because the account owner 
hasnt responded. So we cant ask First Direct to fairly do anything else.
Mr M asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said that First Direct had a duty 
of care by warning him that there was no match with the details, which proved they had a 
system that failed in his circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked in depth at Mr Ms online audit logs which First Direct have provided me. This 
shows his online banking activity with them on 4 March 2022. At 16:27pm he makes a 
payment of £430.11 to an existing beneficiary (his daughter). But at 16:33, the audit shows 
that he sets up a new beneficiary. So if Mr M wanted to transfer £168 to his daughter, after 
just making a payment to her details only six minutes earlier, it is not clear why he didnt use 
the existing details to make this payment. 
The audit shows that a new beneficiary was created. It shows the sort code and account 
number for the beneficiary account  which was a different sort code to the account he 
normally sent money to his daughter. So Mr M must have had these new details to input 
them onto the system as they were completely different to the details he would normally pay 
her which had been previously successful. The audit shows that he created a payment 
request to a new beneficiary, which produced a review response. So here, it appears Mr M 
was given the chance to review the payees details before he submitted the payment for 
£168 to the new beneficiary, but he authorised this 20 seconds later. He then transfers 
money to an internal account four minutes later.
Ive considered what Mr M has said about the confirmation of payee scheme here and that it 
didnt alert him the details didnt match. First Direct have confirmed they dont keep a copy of 
the confirmation of payee result. First Direct have managed to find the name of the account 
that the payment belongs to. And I will ask our investigator to forward this onto Mr M. This 
account does not belong to an individual. Mr M entered the payee saved name as his 
daughters name. The confirmation of payee would show that there was a match if the correct 
name was entered into the details for the payment itself (as opposed to the payee saved 
name, which the evidence shows this was also entered in this box by Mr M as this is why he 
was able to select this payment in May based on the reference being his daughters name). 
So Im persuaded that one of two things happened here, which may make sense to Mr M 
when our investigator tells him the name of the actual payee. One of these things is that the 
£168 original payment was genuine and the proper name was entered on the account which 
would have shown as a confirmation of payee match. This would seem to be the most likely 
scenario. I say this as Ive already mentioned it would be unusual for Mr M to make the £168 
payment to his daughter via a new bill payment when he had previously just paid her via the 
existing bill payment just six minutes earlier, otherwise, he would have just used the original 
details without inputting a completely different sort code and a completely different account 
number. 
This would also explain why Mr M says he didnt see that the entered details werent a match 
under the confirmation of payee scheme. This would also explain why the £168 payment 
was not challenged until the payment after 24 May. I say this because if Mr M had 
transferred the £168 to the wrong account, then I would have expected his daughter to tell 
him that she hadnt received the money and this could have been investigated then and 
there. But if he knew the payment was being made on behalf of his daughter to the new 
payee, that is why he would have known at the time there was nothing to be concerned 
about as he would have checked the sort code and account number were correct. 
Or the second thing which could have happened is the unlikely scenario that only six 
minutes after Mr M paid his daughter £430.11, he decided to enter a sort code and an 
account number which didnt match his daughters details and put her name as both the 
account name and payment reference. Im satisfied that this would have resulted in him 
being told this was not a match  as it wasnt, and he went ahead with the payment 
regardless.
As Mr M had created the new beneficiary and saved this with his daughters name as the 
reference, the audit shows that on 24 May 2022 at 15:21pm he made a payment to an 
existing payee. As the payment was being made to an existing payee, this is why there 
would be no confirmation of payee required for this payment. Mr M selected the same 
beneficiary details as he did for the £168 payment in March and transferred £1,000, again 
after appearing to have the opportunity to review these details before the payment was 
made. 
After Mr M made the original payment on 4 March for £168, it appears he saved this bill 
payment under his daughters name. This was in all lower case (apart from the first letter of her forename and surname). Whereas the successful payments he had previously paid his 
daughter was under a separate bill payment and the details he had saved to his 
beneficiaries list was made in all upper case. It appears he has since changed the name of 
the beneficiary of the correct details to a shortened name for his daughter. 
As Mr M would have needed to confirm the payments were correct, then I cant say that First 
Direct had made an error here by processing his instructions. Ive had a look at the terms 
and conditions for Mr Ms account. These show that To send money from your account, we 
usually need the sort code, account number (or the equivalent details for payments outside 
the UK). Well usually also ask for the full name of the person youre sending money to, or 
where available, a number that is linked to these, such as a mobile phone number. We might 
also need some other information. You need to make sure you give us the right details, as 
well make the payment using only the information you give us. Its up to you to check the 
details are correct.
So it appears that either Mr M did not check that the details were right here as if he had 
checked that the details were correct, then he would have realised he was sending money 
on 4 March and 24 May to completely different details to his daughters account that he 
usually successfully sent money to. Or he made a genuine payment on 4 March, but based 
on how he saved the payee reference, he accidently selected the wrong payee when making 
the 24 May payment. This is why this resulted in £1,000 going to the wrong account. First 
Direct have confirmed there is a review screen where he could have checked the details 
were correct prior to processing both payments. So he would have been able to double 
check where the payments were going to prior to the payments being made. 
When Mr M made First Direct aware of the incorrect payments, they tried to recover the 
money back for him, but they were unable to do so. Ultimately Mr M is responsible for 
checking the details when a beneficiary is saved. It would be his decision as to what he 
saves his beneficiaries as. First Direct have confirmed Mr M still has both bill payments 
active on his account, so he may wish to consider deleting the incorrect payment to avoid 
any more errors. But it follows I dont require First Direct to do anything further here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman