DRN-4350662
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) have continued to 
take payments for their car insurance policy after their vehicle was a total loss following an 
accident.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P have a car insurance policy underwritten by Skyfire, which was due to run 
from 5 November 2022 to 4 November 2023.
In March 2023 Mr P was involved in an accident, and Mr and Mrs Ps vehicle was declared a 
total loss. They received a total loss settlement from Skyfire.
After the total loss settlement, Skyfire has continued to take monthly payments of £57.95. 
Mr and Mrs P complained about this, as they say they should no longer be paying for the 
policy. They want a refund of the payments theyve made since the total loss settlement, 
along with compensation. Skyfire said the full policy premium was due as a claim was made 
under the policy.
As Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy, they approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things but she didnt uphold the complaint. She said the 
policy terms outlined the full policy premium would be due. Therefore, whilst she said Skyfire 
could have deducted the amount due from the settlement paid, the amount was due either 
way. So, she said Skyfire had acted fairly in continuing to charge Mr and Mrs P for the 
policy.
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I appreciate itll come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs P, Ive 
reached the same outcome as our investigator.
Mr and Mrs P say all payments for the policy should have ceased at the point they received 
a total loss settlement. Skyfire says the full annual premium is due, and either the policy 
could be cancelled in which case the full payment would need to be made at that time, or the 
policy could be left to run its course, with monthly instalments continuing to be taken. 
Mr and Mrs Ps policy outlines:
If any of the following apply, you may not receive any refund and you may still have to 
pay the balance of the full yearly premium. This applies in all circumstances no matter 
what payment method you use.
You have made a claim in the policy year or a claim has been made against your 
policy.
You have been involved in an incident which may give rise to a claim under the 
policy.
So, this outlines that if the policy was cancelled before the end date, as a claim has been 
made, the full premium is payable at that time. The alternative would be to leave the policy to 
run its natural course, but the premiums would still be payable.
The policy terms also say what may happen in the event of a total loss:
Total loss
If your car is considered a total loss, it will become the insurers property. Any unpaid 
premium owed may be taken from the settlement paid to you.
And:
If you have not paid your entire premium, the insurer may take off any unpaid 
premiums from any claim they pay you.
And unpaid premium is defined as:
Unpaid premium
Any part of your premium that you have not paid including any unpaid instalments.
The policy is an annual policy, which means there is a specific price for the year, and here, 
Mr and Mrs P are paying for that annual amount in instalments, spread over a year, rather 
than a lump sum at the beginning. Therefore, this is the unpaid premiums owed  the rest 
of the premiums for the annual contract that havent yet been paid. And being required to 
pay the full premium in the event of a total loss or claim isnt unusual or uncommon across 
the motor insurance market.
I agree with the view of our investigator that the terms here say Skyfire may deduct the 
outstanding premium from the total loss settlement payable as a way to obtain the unpaid 
premium. But even if its not deducted from the settlement, it still remains an unpaid premium 
 as defined above. So would still be payable either way.Mr and Mrs P have pointed to the following terms in their insurance policy:
The insurer will do one of the following
.
Settle your claim by paying you money if your car is a total loss or stolen
The insurer will not pay more than the market value of your car at the time of the loss 
or damage, less the total excess and any unpaid premium.
Mr and Mrs P say the premium should have been deducted from the total loss settlement 
before it was paid to them, instead of asking them to now pay it. They say Skyfire has 
breached the terms by now saying they need to pay it, rather than deducting it. But following 
that logic, Mr and Mrs P are essentially agreeing that they have received a higher settlement 
than they should ever have received. So, the remedy would be for Mr and Mrs P to return 
some of that overpayment to Skyfire, instead of paying what is owed until the annual policy 
ends. 
When reaching my final decision on the complaint, I need to consider what is fair and 
reasonable to both parties. But I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to say 
because Skyfire didnt deduct the unpaid premiums from the settlement, and therefore a 
higher settlement was paid than should have been, Mr and Mrs P can now benefit both ways 
from this.
If Mr and Mrs P think Skyfire should have deducted the unpaid premiums from the 
settlement, rather than continue to take monthly instalments, they could contact Skyfire to 
pay the outstanding balance in one lump sum from the overpaid settlement theyve already 
been given. Or alternatively, they have the option to allow monthly payments to run their 
course instead as they already have been. 
But I cant agree with Mr and Mrs P that they have been caused financial detriment by 
Skyfire continuing to take monthly payments, as the alternative would have been them 
receiving a much lower total loss settlement with the same amount being deducted in a lump 
sum instead. So, either way, they arent in a worse position overall, and benefitted from 
having a higher settlement at the outset to use towards purchase of another vehicle (or for 
any other purpose they chose).
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman