DRN-3963421
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Santander UK Plc gave them incorrect and inconsistent 
information about their mortgage account. Mr and Mrs W thought theyd reached an 
arrangement with Santander that would have avoided possession proceedings or at least 
resulted in a suspended possession order. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out their mortgage with Santander in 2008 and further borrowing in 2011. 
The account fell into arrears. Santander started action for possession in mid-2021.
Mr and Mrs W complain that they were given incorrect and inconsistent information by 
Santander. They say this resulted in Santander taking legal action and caused Mrs W stress 
and mental health issues. Mrs W says the incorrect information included the time theyd 
have to maintain payments before Santander would consider capitalising their arrears and 
the amount of the monthly payments that were required. 
Our investigator said while Santander had given Mr and Mrs W incorrect information about 
the amount theyd need to pay each month, the £100 paid by Santander for this was fair in 
the circumstances. Our investigator said given that Mr and Mrs Ws arrears were a 
significant amount and there was no sign of improvement, Santander was entitled to take 
steps to recover the debt.
Mrs W didnt agree this was a fair outcome. She said she was discriminated against by 
Santander due to her disability and mental health issues. She says Santander was aware of 
these issues when it spoke to her support worker. Mrs W said £100 didnt make her mental 
health issues any better.
Mrs W said we hadnt taken her disability and mental health issues into account, and how 
she was affected when she was given inconsistent information. She said she struggled to 
deal with paperwork and emails, and managing the complaint caused her extreme anxiety 
and distress. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W has told us about her health issues. Shes also told us about their difficult 
circumstances and the upsetting events theyve had to deal with, including while the 
complaint has been with us. Im very sorry for what Mr and Mrs W have had to deal with. 
Mrs W finds dealing with the complaint, and the paperwork related to the mortgage difficult. 
Im glad to hear that she has a support worker to help her. Our investigator issued her view 
in early December 2022 While Mrs W says she has further evidence, weve allowed her 
extra time to respond and provide this a number of times. Having reviewed the available 
evidence, Im satisfied I can reach a fair decision. Our role is to provide an informal 
resolution within a reasonable time scale. In view of this, and in fairness to both parties, I 
need now to issue a final decision to resolve this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage fell into arrears in 2014. The arrears were capitalised in 2015. The 
account fell into arrears again in 2016. The arrears were over £11,000 by the end of 2019, 
and about £20,000 by late 2021 (the equivalent of about 23 months of payments).
In mid-2021 Santander instructed solicitors to start action for possession. 
Mrs W spoke to Santander a number of times from August to November 2021. Mrs W says 
she wanted a repayment plan with Santander to repay the arrears, and/or meet criteria for 
the arrears to be capitalised. Santander discussed a possible term extension with her, to 
make monthly payments more affordable.
On a call on 9 November 2021 Mrs W was told they could make monthly payments of about 
£980. Santander said the matter would still go to court, but the court would consider making 
a suspended possession order on the basis these payments were maintained. Mrs W says 
shed been told she needed to maintain payments for six months for Santander to consider 
capitalising arrears. 
Mrs W was upset when she was then told monthly payments needed to be over £1,000. And 
payments had to be maintained for 12 months before Santander would consider capitalising 
arrears.
Mrs W raised a complaint. Santander recorded this as Mrs W being unhappy that they were 
waiting for a court hearing date, and about being given incorrect information that 
capitalisation and/or a term extension would be an option. Mrs W says her complaint was 
wider than this and included all of the incorrect and inconsistent information theyd been 
given since late 2018. 
It must have been upsetting for Mr and Mrs W to be told theyd have to maintain agreed 
payments for 12 months rather than six months before Santander would consider 
capitalisation, and that the amount of the required monthly payments would be higher than 
shed been told earlier in November 2021. This was especially the case when they were 
expecting to be at a court hearing in the near future, asking for a suspended possession 
order on the basis theyd be able to maintain these payments.
I need to take into account here that Mr and Mrs W were told correctly before 9 November 
2021 and again on 15 November 2021 that payments would need to be over £1,000. They 
were given correct information, including on 15 November 2021, that payments needed to be 
maintained for 12 months before Santander would consider capitalising arrears. And they 
were given correct information that making agreed payments wouldnt stop legal action but 
might mean the court would issue a suspended possession order. 
Mr W also called Santander on 15 November 2021, after Mrs W raised her complaint. 
Santander told Mr W that if the payment (of over £1,000) was made in December 2021 it 
could make an internal request to a business manager to cancel any pending court hearings 
and put a repayment plan in place. However, this was at the discretion of the business 
manager. 
Mrs W said shed been given incorrect and contradictory information since late 2018 and this 
resulted in legal action and possession proceedings and caused her stress and mental 
health issues. She said her mental health problems and the effect on her of repeatedly being 
given incorrect information hadnt been taken into account. Mrs W said she had notes of 
these conversations. And she told us her support worker would assist her in providing details of the dates and times of conversations with Santander when it gave her incorrect or 
inconsistent information. This information hasnt been provided to us. 
I think Mr and Mrs Ws arrears came about because they were unable to maintain mortgage 
payments over a number of years. Its the level of arrears that resulted in Santander starting 
legal action. 
Mrs W said she was discriminated against by Santander due to her disability and mental 
health issues. She says Santander was aware of these issues when it spoke to her support 
worker. Mrs W says her health issues make it difficult for her to discuss her finances with 
Santander. 
I can see from Santanders notes that most of the calls leading up to the complaint were in-
bound (that is, Mrs W called Santander). I appreciate that Mrs W contacted Santander as 
she wanted to discuss possible solutions, to avoid court action. Mrs W told us she prefers 
phone calls to electronic communication and paperwork. So it seems unlikely Santander 
contacting Mrs W in a different way (such as in writing) would have helped here. Mrs W told 
Santander she had a letter of authority for her support worker to speak directly to Santander 
on her behalf. Having someone deal with Santander on her behalf would help to protect 
Mrs W from some of the stress caused by these calls. 
Santander provided its notes of its calls with Mr and Mrs W. I can understand that Mrs W 
found these discussions difficult. I think in large part that was likely due to the difficult 
position she was in, unable to maintain mortgage payments and with increasing arrears. 
Mrs W has health problems and she told Santander they were under pressure from a lender 
with a second charge on the property. Being given information that wasnt clear and 
consistent would have added to Mrs Ws stress. But without information from Mrs W about 
the times when she believes this happened its difficult for me to look into this further or find 
that Santander treated her unfairly.
Mrs W said £100 didnt make her mental health issues any better, and I appreciate that must 
be true. But its difficult to find an amount of compensation that could do this while being fair 
to both parties. When Santander did give Mrs W incorrect information this was corrected 
within a short period, and it offered £100 compensation for the error. Theres no evidence 
that Mr and Mrs W took action in reliance on this incorrect information that they wouldnt 
otherwise have taken. In the circumstances, I think that the £100 paid by Santander is fair 
and reasonable.
Mrs W has told us shes unhappy with the way Santander has dealt with the account since 
November 2021 when she brought the complaint to us. I must be clear that, under our rules, 
we cant investigate a complaint until the customer has raised it with the business and given 
it an opportunity to respond. So, in this decision, I am only considering the complaint brought 
to us in November 2021.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Thats because I think Santander UK Plc 
has done enough to put matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman