DRN-2149496
The complaint
Mr R complained that with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Bank of Scotland (BoS) marked 
his account that he was deceased.
 
What happened
In February 2020, BoS marked Mr Rs account that he was deceased. They blocked the 
account and returned direct debits unpaid. The direct debits were cancelled. 
Mr R complained that around 20 direct debits were cancelled. It took a long time to get these 
set up again. Hes had to pay fees of £160. His credit rating was affected because of the 
missed payments. Hed been receiving letters addressed to him as deceased - which was 
distressing.
BoS replied in February 2020. They apologised  this was down to human error and 
shouldnt have happened. They paid compensation of £1000. Because of the way that direct 
debits work, it was for the originators of the direct debits to reinstate them. That might take 
time. They sent Mr R letters that he could send to them to say that what had happened was 
BoSs error and it shouldnt affect his credit rating with them.
Mr R brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at what had happened. 
He said that what BoS had done was fair. Theyd apologised for their error and paid 
compensation of £1000. Theyd given Mr R letters to send to the companies he held direct 
debits with. Hed looked at Mr Rs account and could see that there were 19 active direct 
debits. And they were being paid in March 2020  so they looked OK. He asked Mr R if he 
could provide a copy of his credit report. Mr R hadnt done this but had provided a snapshot 
of his credit rating  which was above the national average. He also showed a screenshot of 
his building society mortgage - which showed it was one month in arrears  but it also 
showed account status improved. He asked for evidence of any other fees or costs which 
Mr R had paid but he hadnt provided these. 
Mr R asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This must have been a very upsetting time for Mr R  he received various letters from the 
companies to say hed died. BoS blocked his account and cancelled the direct debits. So, his 
bills werent being paid. He got letters saying he was in arrears as payments had been 
missed. And because of the ways in which direct debits work  he had to contact the 
companies himself to sort everything out - it wasnt possible for BoS to do this. He said he 
had to pay late payment fees of £160 and his credit rating had been affected.
BoS did as much as they could to help out  but they couldnt reinstate the direct debits 
themselves and it had to be down to Mr R to contact the companies. To help with his 
standing with them, they gave him to who it may concern letters that he could send to 
them. They asked for details of any fees that Mr R had to pay, but I didnt see that hed done 
that. 
The reinstatement of the direct debits looked to have worked  there were 19 live ones 
showing in BoSs systems in March 2020. I have looked at Mr Rs statements and they were 
being paid from his account. 
Looking at if there were any arrears - I have seen evidence that Mr Rs building society 
mortgage was in arrears by £349.71 in April 2020  but also that the direct debit to them was 
live at the end of March 2020 and a payment of £349.71 was made to them at the end of 
April 2020  so it looks like the arrears were paid.
We asked Mr R to give us a copy of his credit file to see of there had been any affect on his 
credit rating. Unfortunately, he hasnt done this. He did give us a screenshot of his credit 
score which was shown to be above the national average. So, we cannot say that his credit 
rating has been adversely affected. 
Mr R said to us that hed had to pay late payment fees of £160 to various companies. We 
asked him for evidence of this, but unfortunately has hasnt done this. So, we cant consider 
them.
I have no doubt that this was a very difficult time for Mr R. And he had to do a lot of work 
himself to sort things out. But we havent seen any evidence that his credit rating has been 
affected, or of any additional costs he had to pay. BoS tried to help him sort things out as 
much as they could  and paid compensation of £1000. This is a fair and reasonable award 
for this type of complaint, and I shant be asking them to do anymore.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman