DRN-3889225
The complaint
Mr B complains that Quilter Financial Services Ltd gave him unsuitable advice to transfer the 
benefits from two Defined-Benefit (DB) occupational pension schemes to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice has caused him a financial loss. 
What happened
In 2018 Quilter gave Mr B advice on the deferred benefits he held in two DB schemes from a 
previous employer.
As part of the advice process Quilter conducted a fact-find with Mr B to record information 
about his circumstances and objectives. The Fact-find noted:
He was 63 years old and working full time.
He owned his own home jointly with his wife which had a mortgage with around 
£25,000 outstanding.
He had a car loan with approximately £8,000 outstanding. 
His DB schemes related to two periods of service with the same company. One had 
a transfer value of around £165,000 and the other around £73,000.
He had a personal pension held in a flexi-access drawdown plan which was 
crystallised and had a value of around £80,000.
He had savings of around £8,000.
His objective was noted as releasing tax-free cash so that he could reduce his 
working week from five days to three by clearing his mortgage and other debt. 
If he reduced his working hours, hed need to purchase a car to replace his company 
car. 
He had some home improvements hed like to complete. 
Quilter also did an assessment of Mr Bs attitude to investment risk which they said was 
balanced. 
In April 2018 Quilter produced a suitability report outlining their recommendations to Mr B. 
In the report Quilter identified the critical yields required to match the benefits Mr B was 
giving up in his DB schemes. The critical yields were recorded as 23.52% for the larger DB 
scheme benefits and 15.21% for the smaller scheme. Quilter said it was unlikely Mr B could 
match these returns.
Ultimately Quilter recommended that Mr B transfer both of his DB schemes to a SIPP and 
invest the majority of his funds into a balanced risk fund with a very small amount to be held 
in cash. They said their recommendation met Mr Bs objectives of paying off his debts to 
reduce his working hours, buying a new car, and making the home improvements he 
wanted. They also said if Mr B were to draw down his funds they would last until he was 
aged 85.  
Mr B complained to Quilter in 2020 via a professional representative. In summary he said 
Quilters advice had been unsuitable as he was worse off financially as a result. He also said 
Quilter hadnt fully explained their fees.
Quilter didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. They said their advice met Mr Bs objectives of 
accessing his tax-free cash (TFC) so that he could reduce his working hours. So, they said it 
had been suitable. They also said their fees had been clearly set out and agreed by Mr B 
before the advice was given.
An ombudsman issued a provisional decision on this complaint. He upheld it saying that the 
transfer wasnt financially viable. He said Mr B could afford his debts at the time and had 
other means that he could have used to reduce his outgoings. And he could have claimed 
his full DB benefits in just two years. He also didnt think the different death benefits that the 
SIPP provided justified a transfer either. 
In response to the provisional decision Quilter said that had Mr B used his savings it would 
have left him without an emergency fund and would not have allowed him to fully meet his 
goal. They said it wasnt their role to convince Mr B to carry on working longer hours and 
asked for an explanation of how Mr B could have met his goals through his other assets. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, the provisional decision in this case was written by another ombudsman. Ive 
conducted my own independent review of the available evidence and Ive reached the same 
overall outcome as the previous ombudsman for broadly the same reasons which Ill set out 
below.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of Quilter's actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Quilter should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Bs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied that it 
was.
Financial viability 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr B was 63 at the time of the advice and his scheme had a retirement age of 65. For the 
larger DB scheme the critical yield required to match Mr Bs benefits at age 65 was 23.52% if 
he took a full pension and 17.22% if he took TFC and a reduced pension. The smaller 
scheme had a critical yield of 15.21% if he took a full pension and 10.17% if he took TFC 
and a reduced pension.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 2.5% per year for one year to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection 
rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Bs 
balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr B 
giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yields were 
17.22% and 10.17%, I think Mr B was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower 
overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with his 
attitude to risk. 
If it was Mr Bs objective to match or improve on the benefits he was likely to receive in his 
DB scheme then the transfer clearly wasnt suitable. Of course financial viability isnt the only 
consideration when giving transfer advice, as Quilter has argued in this case. There might be 
other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. Ive considered this below.
Paying off debts to reduce outgoings.
Mr B appeared to have one main objective for transferring his pension. He was looking to 
reduce his working hours from five days to three. But Quilter said that meant his income 
would reduce from approximately £2,200 per month to £1,606 per month. 
Quilter had recorded that Mr Bs joint income with his wife was around £3,000 a month and 
they were paying around £1,311 towards their mortgage and loan. But it recorded they lived 
comfortably on the £1,689 that remained each month. 
I acknowledge that it wasnt Quilters role to convince Mr B to carry on working five days a 
week. But they needed to consider all of the options available to Mr B to achieve his 
objectives and consider these in a balanced way. And keeping Mr Bs best interests at the 
heart of any recommendations they made. The regulator had made it clear that the starting point in transferring a DB scheme should 
always be that the transfer is unsuitable. So, I think it would have been reasonable for 
Quilter to explore other ways of achieving Mr Bs objective through the use of his other 
assets and pensions before looking to transfer the valuable benefits of his DB scheme. 
However, Quilters advice seems to be focused on paying off Mr Bs debts using the TFC 
that would have been available by transferring his pensions. The TFC would have cleared 
his debts and left him more disposable income each month. But I dont think Quilters 
recommendation properly considered how his objectives could have been met whilst still 
staying in the scheme. Ill explain why. 
Quilter recorded that Mr B lived comfortably on his existing income but reducing his hours 
would leave him around £600 a month worse off. Im not satisfied that Quilter fully explored if 
this £600 a month deficit could have been made up by his existing personal pension. 
By the time Quilter transferred Mr Bs DB schemes in September 2018, he was only 18 
months from being able to claim the full benefits of the schemes. Given the short timeframe 
before Mr B was able to claim his DB benefits in full, proper consideration needed to be 
given to using Mr Bs existing pension, which was already in a drawdown arrangement, to 
make up his £600 a month shortfall. 
Quilter have asked our service to outline the maths associated with using Mr Bs other 
pensions and assets to achieve his objectives. But my role isnt to provide alternative 
suitable advice to Mr B. My role is to assess whether Quilter demonstrated the transfer was 
in Mr Bs best interests by properly considering and discounting the alternatives. And in this 
case, Im not persuaded theres evidence that the alternatives were properly considered.
Regarding the personal pension the suitability report says;
In addition to the benefits with [the DB schemes] you have £80,000 in a Flexi Access 
Drawdown plan with LV. After you have taken Cash from your transferred [DB scheme] 
pensions you will have total retirement funds of some £259,000 from which to take an 
income. Both you and [Mrs B] will receive state pensions."
Quilter didnt provide any cash flow models or other analysis of the impact of drawing down 
Mr Bs income deficit from the drawdown arrangement instead of transferring his DB 
scheme. That should have been a key consideration in Quilters recommendation as they 
should have started from an assumption that transferring the DB scheme would be 
unsuitable. So, they needed to demonstrate that Mr Bs objectives couldnt be met through 
his other pensions or assets.
I acknowledge that this would have been a taxable income and would have triggered his 
Money Purchase Personal Allowance (MPPA). But it appears that Mr B and his employer 
were jointly contributing around 5% which was approximately £1,800 a year to his pension. 
So, he was well within the allowance. And whenever Mr B decided to draw an income from 
his personal pension it was likely to attract income tax. 
Quilter also point out that Mr B would have needed a new car to replace his company car. 
But Quilter havent recorded what funds were needed for this purchase. And whether that 
could have been achieved through using some of Mr Bs savings or further drawdown from 
the personal pension. Without truly knowing their clients needs, Quilter werent able to say 
with any certainty whether that option could have been met by other means and was 
therefore in Mr Bs best interests as they didnt seem to have assessed that at the time.Mr B also wanted to complete some home improvements. But Quilter noted this was more of 
a want rather than the need. And hed originally planned to do this at his normal retirement 
age. Although Im sure Mr B would have liked to complete these improvements earlier if he 
could, he had no pressing need for them to be completed at that time. And his DB schemes 
would have provided TFC at his normal retirement age. 
Mr B was also married, and Quilters assessment was based on his and his wifes joint 
income and expenditure. But theres no details recorded of any savings, assets or pensions 
belonging to Mr Bs wife that could have also been assessed against Mr Bs objectives. 
Death benefits
Quilters suitability report points out the different death benefits available through the 
personal pension compared to the DB scheme. And while I note Mr B was interested in how 
his wife would be looked after if he passed away, I havent seen any persuasive evidence 
that it was Mr Bs goal to improve on the death benefits available to him.
I think the different death benefits on offer were a consequence of the recommended 
transfer as opposed to an objective of Mr Bs that could have been met through 
recommending the transfer. Quilter noted in the suitability report that the more flexible death 
benefits on offer through a transfer wouldnt in themselves be reason to transfer the DB 
scheme. And I agree.
Summary
I dont doubt that the immediate availability of tax-free cash on offer through a personal 
pension would have sounded attractive to Mr B. But Quilter wasnt there to just transact what 
Mr B might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr B 
needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr B was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr B was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this.  Mr B shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme 18 months early just to pay off his debts which were affordable if he had other 
means with which to make up his monthly income deficit. It wasnt worth giving up the 
guarantees associated with his DB scheme.
So, I think Quilter shouldve advised Mr B to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr B would've gone ahead anyway, against Quilter's 
advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr B wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Quilters advice. I say this because Mr B was an 
inexperienced investor with a balanced attitude to risk and this pension accounted for the 
majority of Mr Bs retirement provision. So, if Quilter had provided him with clear advice 
against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I 
think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Bs need to access tax-free cash to pay off his debts were so 
great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. If Quilter had explained that Mr B could meet all of his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont 
think Mr B would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Quilter should compensate Mr B for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Fees
Mr B also complained that he wasnt informed about the pension providers charges and 
fees. The suitability report Quilter sent fails to clearly set out the providers fees but instead 
referred Mr B to an attached illustration which Quilter said showed the effect of the plans 
charges on Mr Bs investment. 
I havent been provided with a copy of the illustration. However, as I think the advice Mr B 
received to transfer his DB scheme was unsuitable, I dont think I need to see the illustration 
to check how clear it was as the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress 
methodology will take the fees into account when putting Mr B back into the position he 
would have been in had he not been given the unsuitable advice to transfer his schemes. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr B, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr B whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance /rules to come into effect.
He has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr B.Quilter must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.
Quilter may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date 
Quilter receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Quilter 
to pay Mr B.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quilter deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. Quilter should give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr B asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.  
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Quilter to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.Determination and money award: I require Quilter to pay Mr B the compensation amount 
as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Quilter to 
pay Mr B any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Quilter to pay 
Mr B any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Quilter pays Mr B the balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out 
above on this balance to be paid to Mr B.
If Mr B accepts my decision, the money award is binding on Quilter. My recommendation is 
not binding on Quilter. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my decision and go to court 
to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Quilter Financial Services Ltd must now pay 
Mr B the amount as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman