DRN-3260063
The complaint
Miss M complains that BUPA Insurance Limited delayed her private medical insurance 
treatment. 
Miss M is represented in this complaint by Mr M.
What happened
Shortly after Miss Ms cover started, Mr M made a claim for psychology input on her behalf. 
BUPA explained it would need to see a medical report from Miss Ms GP. 
BUPA says it requested the medical report on 16 February 2021. This was received from the 
GP on 22 April 2021. However, there were inconsistencies with the information, and BUPA 
also wanted further information from the GP. BUPA therefore contacted the GP again on 28 
April 2021. The GP responded on 19 May 2021. 
On 27 May 2021, BUPA authorised the claim.
Unhappy with the length of time it took BUPA to make a claims decision, Mr M brought a 
complaint to this service on Miss Ms behalf. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought the delays were 
outside BUPAs control. 
Mr M didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BUPA has explained its usual process is to request information from a GP when a claim is 
made soon after the policy starts. This is to ensure that the condition didnt exist before the 
policy was taken out (unless of course the condition was disclosed when the policy was 
taken out, and cover was provided for this). 
Though I note that BUPA also wanted information about Miss Ms symptoms from the GP 
because Mr M had said that Miss M had insomnia, which isnt covered by the policy. BUPA 
was entitled to request information to allow it to assess the claim. 
BUPA hasnt been able to provide a copy of its initial request for information sent to the GP 
on 16 February 2021. It also hasnt been able to provide a copy of the GPs response dated 
22 April 2021.
However, Ive seen BUPAs notes after it received the GPs response of 22 April 2021. 
These listed Miss Ms symptoms, and also noted that Miss M had experienced previous 
behavioural problems in 2018. BUPA wanted to know if Miss Ms claim was related to her 
previous behavioural problems.
BUPA therefore wrote to the GP on 28 April 2021. BUPA pointed out the GP had said that 
Miss Ms symptoms had begun on 10 February 2021, but the appointment with the GP had 
taken place on 9 February 2021. It wanted the GP to clarify when her symptoms had started. 
It also noted that Miss M had experienced previous behavioural problems in 2018, and it 
wanted to know if her current issues were related to that. 
Given that Miss Ms claim was for a psychology referral, I think it was reasonable for BUPA 
to make further enquiries relating to Miss Ms previous behavioural problems, so that it could 
establish whether her symptoms were related to this.
It also wasnt unreasonable for BUPA to want to clarify the conflicting information about 
dates, however, as Ive mentioned, this wasnt the only reason that BUPA went back to the 
GP.
I see that BUPA had tried to obtain the information from the GP by phone, but the GP 
wanted the request sent by email. It then took the GP three weeks to respond to BUPA. The 
GPs response was considered and, after BUPA was satisfied that Miss Ms claim wasnt a 
pre-existing condition, it accepted the claim around a week later.
Whilst I can understand Mr Ms frustration with the overall time it took for the claim to be 
accepted by BUPA, I agree with our investigator that the delays were outside of BUPAs 
control. The main delay was that it took the GP around nine weeks to respond to BUPAs 
initial request for information. Unfortunately, BUPA couldnt accept the claim when the GP 
report was received, as it had further questions for the GP. As Ive said, I think it was 
reasonable for BUPA to go back to the GP for the further information. 
I therefore dont find that BUPA caused any unreasonable delays in its handling of the 
matter. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M, on behalf of 
Miss M, to accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman