DRN-3325017
The complaint
Mr E and Mrs E complain about their insurer, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
declining a claim under their home insurance policy for water damage to their property.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr E and Mrs E noticed water damage to the wall of a bathroom at their 
house after a period of bad weather. They called RSA, who arranged for an engineer to 
attend the property and carry out emergency repairs. RSA also appointed a surveyor (B) to 
inspect the damage. B visited the property and in their report they concluded the damage 
had most likely occurred gradually over time due to the slow break down of lead flashing on 
the roof. Based on Bs assessment, as the damage had occurred gradually (not due to a 
one-off event that would be covered under the policy) RSA declined Mr E and Mrs Es claim.
Unhappy at their claim being declined, Mr E and Mrs E complained to RSA. They upheld the 
complaint in part. They referred to Bs view that the lead flashing wasnt sealed correctly 
when the roof was renewed, allowing rainwater to ingress over time. While they re-
considered the decline of the claim when it was confirmed that Mr E and Mrs Es policy 
included accidental damage cover, they maintained their decision to decline the claim as the 
damage couldnt be attributed to a one-off event. RSA referred to an exclusion in the policy 
for damage caused by something that happens gradually over time, or by poor or faulty 
design, workmanship or materials. However, RSA did accept that some of the service 
provided to Mr E and Mrs E fell short of the standard expected (B incorrectly saying the 
policy didnt include accidental damage cover) and apologised for the error.
Mr E and Mrs E then complained to this service. They didnt agree water had entered the 
property before they contacted RSA to lodge a claim and theyd have noticed had it been the 
case. They had the roof renewed 20 years previously and didnt accept Bs view that the 
lead flashing hadnt been done properly and so led to the water ingress. They asked that 
RSA accept their claim. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding RSA acted fairly in declining the 
claim, based on Bs report and conclusion that the damage wasnt the result of a one-off 
event. He also thought the weather reports didnt indicate storm conditions were present 
around the time of the damage and B hadnt noted any external damage that could be due to 
a storm.  The investigator thought the damage occurred gradually over time and so RSA 
hadnt acted unfairly in declining the claim.
Mr E and Mrs E disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review 
the complaint. In doing so, Mr E and Mrs E didnt accept that the damage had occurred 
gradually as they would have noticed it happening well before it became obvious, something 
they wouldnt have ignored.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide whether RSA have acted fairly towards Mr E and Mrs E.
The central issue in Mr E and Mrs Es complaint is that RSA unfairly declined her claim for 
the damage to their property. They dont believe the damage occurred gradually (which they 
say they would have noticed). Rather it resulted from the bad weather at the time they 
became aware of the damage. RSAs view, based on Bs report, is that the damage did 
occur gradually due to the slow break down of the lead flashing on the roof. As such, this 
wasnt covered under the policy.
In considering the issue, Ive considered Bs report from their inspection, including 
photographs taken of the damage, as well as their description of the damage. Ive also 
considered the photographs provided by Mr E and Mrs E in response to our investigators 
view. Im persuaded that, on the balance of probabilities, Bs conclusion that the damage 
had occurred gradually over time, due to ingress through the lead flashing around a vent 
stack in the roof, is reasonable. As such, Im not persuaded that the damage was the result 
of a one-off event that would be an insured event under the terms of the policy. 
In their final response, in support of their view, RSA point to a specific exclusion in the policy 
terms and conditions. The relevant exclusion is contained in the Policy exclusions section of 
the policy headed The following exclusions apply to all the types of cover available with your 
policy as follows:
Uninsurable risks
Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind directly or indirectly caused 
by, or resulting from:
wear and teardampmould or anything that happens gradually over a 
period of time
poor or faulty design, workmanship or materials.
Looking at this, given my conclusions on the likely cause of the damage, I think its clear that 
the damage did occur gradually over time, even if it didnt become noticeable to Mr E and 
Mrs E until the bad weather before they contacted RSA. 
Ive also considered whether the bad weather at the time of the damage could be considered 
to constitute a storm (and caused the damage). Looking at the reports from the weather firm 
used by this service, for the nearest weather station to Mr E and Mrs Es property, it doesnt 
indicate the presence of a storm. The peak gust is at a level that this service wouldnt 
consider a storm. While the rainfall figure is highest on the day before Mr E and Mrs E 
noticed the damage, it isnt at a level that would be consistent with a storm. So, Ive 
concluded that a storm wasnt present at the time of the damage and so wouldnt be a cause 
of the damage. Ive also noted that the photographs of the roof dont indicate any obvious 
damage, which is consistent with the conclusion that the water ingress came through the 
lead flashing around the vent stack.
Taking all these points together, I dont think RSA have acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining Mr E and Mrs Es claim, in line with the exclusion in the policy for damage that 
occurs gradually over time.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr E and Mrs Es 
complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman