DRN-3993860
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc lost a cheque he sent for crediting to his account and 
has failed to find the cheque or compensate him for its loss.
What happened
In September 2022 Mr C sent a cheque for $4,459.32 to Santander for crediting to his 
account. He noted that it hadnt been credited and began contacting Santander in early 
November 2022 to find out what had happened. Following further calls in November he was 
finally told in December 2022 that it had been sent back. In a letter of 6 January 2023, he 
was told that the cheque had been returned to him by registered post on 21 September 
because it was incorrectly endorsed. The letter wasnt collected by Mr C so it was returned 
to Santander. However it couldnt trace receipt of the returned cheque so advised Mr C to 
get the cheque cancelled and for a replacement to be sent. It paid him £100 for the 
inconvenience caused.
In late December it appears that Santander received a cheque for the same amount 
($4,459.32) which was credited to Mr Cs account and converted to £3,548.28 on 
10 January 2023. Santander confirmed this in a letter of 1 February (though mistakenly 
quoted the dollar amount as pounds). I understand Mr C says the original cheque is still 
missing.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Investigator said that the  service 
provided by Santander fell short of what shed expect and said that it should pay a further 
£100.
Santander agreed with this. Mr C didnt agree. He said that Santander had taken no 
responsibility for the issue, for which he is financially negatively impacted, nor has it 
attempted to resolve it with Royal Mail. 
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I see that Mr C became concerned that the cheque hadnt been paid in, in early November 
and contacted Santander to query the matter on 11 and 26 November, and 
24 December 2022 and 7 January 2023. There may have been other calls but there are no 
notes of any such calls and we havent received any recordings of those. It appears that in 
those first two calls Santander was assuring Mr C that the cheques had been received but 
due to a backlog in the processing of foreign cheques it hadnt yet been credited. 
It was only in the call of 24 December 2022 that Mr C was told that the cheque had been 
incorrectly endorsed and so had been returned. After further investigation Santander was 
able to tell Mr C that the registered letter hadnt been collected and had been returned to it. 
Though it couldnt say to what department and the cheque was assumed to be lost.
I dont think Santander was at fault for returning the cheque and it made sense to do this by 
registered post. Im sorry to note that Mr C says he received no notice that the Post Office 
was attempting to deliver a registered letter. I do think however that Santander should have 
marked its records immediately it sent the cheque back, so it could tell Mr C this when he 
first enquired about it. I dont know if the returned letter was received back from the Post 
Office so I cant say whether Santander should have marked its records when that was 
received.
According to Santanders records it credited a cheque to Mr Cs account for the exact same 
dollar amount as was originally sent, on 10 January 2023. Although Mr C says this cheque 
wasnt sent by him, it is a different number from the original lost cheque. So its reasonable 
to assume that it was a new cheque and not the original one And if Mr C didnt send it in, it 
seems likely that it was sent directly to Santander by the paying bank. Certainly Mr C has 
been given the opportunity by our Investigator to provide evidence that this was a different 
payment and hasnt done so. 
So I think that in terms of keeping Mr C informed about the missing cheque, Santander 
provided a poor service. And I agree with the Investigator that it should pay £200 (including 
that already paid) for the inconvenience caused. I dont however think that Mr C has shown 
that he has made any financial loss.
Putting things right
I think that bearing in mind the anxiety and inconvenience suffered and the delay in telling 
him about the true position regarding the cheque, Santander should pay Mr C a further £100 
(in addition to the amount already paid).
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Santander UK Plc to provide the remedy set out under 
Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman