DRN-1227591
 
The complaint
This complaints about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Mrs M says 
Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI.  
What happened
Mrs M applied for a credit card with Lloyds in 1999. At some time between then and 2000, 
PPI was added to her account that was designed to help protect her repayments if she 
couldnt work due to disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. As Mrs M didnt agree with the 
adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold because:
Unsurprisingly, given how long ago the PPI was sold, there are gaps in the 
information available from the time. Mrs M says she filled in a leaflet to buy the PPI, 
but Lloyds cant confirm how it was sold. From experience of how Lloyds sold PPI 
between 1999 and 2000 across all its sales channels, Ive no reason to think it didnt 
make clear the PPI was optional or that it was added without her knowledge or 
agreement.  
If Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs M, it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her. And, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, I cant see that shed have been affected by any of the exclusions 
to, or limits on, the PPI cover. And the PPI benefits would have paid out on top of her 
sick pay and redundancy pay, for up to 12 months per claim. She says she could 
have relied on savings but she cant recall how much she held. Overall, I think shed 
have found the PPI useful. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But I think it likely she chose to take it out  so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover. And it looks as though it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. I also cant see that shed have found it unaffordable. 
 
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Mrs Ms lost out because of how Lloyds sold 
her the PPI. My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman