DRN-1662748
 
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr S says Barclays Bank Plc, who were trading at the time as Egg, mis-sold him the 
PPI. For simplicity, Ill refer to the business as Egg for much of this decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Egg made it clear that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this. I say this 
because Ive considered what we know about how Egg sold PPI over the internet 
around this time and Ive seen internet screenshots that Egg say are representative 
of what Mr S would have seen at the time of applying for PPI. To get the cover Mr S 
would have had to select it and he would have had a choice about doing that. So it 
seems most likely that Mr S did choose it and did so knowing he had a choice to do 
so.    
Egg didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make sure Mr S got the information he needed to decide if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible the information Egg gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been  such as details of how much the policy would cost. But he chose to 
take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time it seems he was eligible for the policy and it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. And Ive considered that whilst Mr Ss initial sick pay was good, it dropped 
significantly after six months, so he may have struggled. Mr S told us he had some 
savings he could have relied on for a time but he wasnt able to recall how much that 
amounted to. This policy could have paid out for up to 12 months in that event, or if 
Mr S lost his job. So I think the policy would have been useful to him if something 
went wrong. So I dont think better information about the PPI and its cost would have 
put him off taking out the cover. 
 
I have looked at all of the information available to me and for the same reasons as given by 
the adjudicator, and set out above, I do not think the policy was mis-sold. So Barclays Bank 
Plc doesnt need to refund everything Mr S paid for it. But Barclays Bank Plc has already offered to give Mr S back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs to do anything more. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so I don't uphold Mr S's complaint against Barclays Bank 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman