DRN-3998118
The complaint
Mr J complains Gallium Fund Solutions Limited (Gallium) are responsible for money he lost 
on a high-risk investment.
What happened
Mr J was sold his bond  a 4 Year Compounding High-Yield Bond  in July 2017 by Basset 
Gold Limited (BG Ltd). A separate business  Basset & Gold Plc (B&G plc)  then issued 
the bond.
BG Ltd arranged applications for the bond through a website it operated. It was responsible 
for advertising and marketing the bond.
The bond was non-readily realisable. That meant there were rules restricting who it could be 
promoted to, and rules about testing whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. BG Ltd's online application process took steps to meet the obligations 
created by these rules.
While neither B&G Plc nor BG Ltd were regulated companies, both were appointed 
representatives of Gallium from 17 February 2017 to 28 February 2018. As such, Gallium  
which is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  is responsible for complaints 
about the acts or omissions either business allegedly made during this time.
Mr Js investment in the bond
Mr J explained he heard about the bond through a friend who had also invested with 
Gallium. Mr J had no previous investment experience, and no other investments at the time. 
He applied online via the BG Ltd website. Mr J invested £2,000. The bond was to return the 
amount invested after four years, plus a relatively high rate of interest.
In January 2019, I understand that a further company  B&G Finance Limited, which by that 
point had taken on BG Ltds role  sent investors like Mr J an email about the bonds issued 
by B&G plc. This referred to the fact that nearly all the money invested had been lent to one 
short-term lender.
Following action by the FCA, the short-term lender went into administration in March 2020. 
B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mr J has not had his 
invested capital or the expected interest returned to him.
The application process
Galliums records confirm Mr J completed an online application in July 2017 to set up his 
bond. This was a key step to get the bonds, so Ive focussed my decision on the online 
process.
Ive not seen Mr Js specific online application. But Ive seen screen-prints of each stage of 
the process hed have followed. This consisted of two stages: certification, designed to meet 
the rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to; and then a test to decide if the 
investment was appropriate for Mr J.
Galliums response to Mr Js complaint
Gallium didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. It said Mr J had been given sufficient information and 
risk warnings about the investment.
Gallium made further submissions once Mr Js complaint came to us. Ive considered the 
submissions in full. Ive also considered what Gallium described as its position statement, 
which sets out general information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mr Js complaint and concluded it should be upheld. In 
summary, they made the following points:
The part of the application process designed to check the bond could be promoted to 
Mr J was misleading about what being a restricted investor meant. This led Mr J  
who had no other investments  to incorrectly identify himself in this category. 
The part of the application process testing the appropriateness of the bond for Mr J 
was inconsistent with the FCAs rules and guidance, and didnt gather sufficient 
information.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Mr J wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have decided 
not to allow Mr J to invest.
For these reasons, both cumulatively and individually, it was fair to uphold the 
complaint and for Gallium to compensate Mr J for the loss he has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium didnt accept the investigators view. In summary, it made the following points:
Our findings went beyond the scope of Mr Js original complaint. 
Regardless of label, Mr J was required to confirm that he met the requirements of a 
restricted investor and confirmed that he did. It is not fair or reasonable to conclude 
that the use of the word everyday contributed to Mr J giving an incorrect 
declaration, and it was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration.
The appropriateness test answers and the confirmations above were sufficient for 
Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and 
experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the 
relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test. 
Mr J made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it, and 
didnt choose to surrender it when receiving the warning email in 2019. So he likely 
would have proceeded with the investment regardless.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To do so, Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulator rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
Im satisfied I can consider the sale of this bond to Mr J when considering his complaint 
about having lost his money on the investment. That loss follows from the type of investment 
hes been sold. The appropriateness of that sale is one of the circumstances of this case. 
The Principles for Businesses set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G). Principles 6 
(Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are relevant here.
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading). Thats also relevant here.
The rules for selling non-readily realisable bonds in 2017 were set out in COBS 4.7 and 
COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. Ive considered those rules in full.
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs head of investment policy and UKCFA (UK Crowdfunding 
Association). Ive considered these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the same reasons.
In summary:
BG Ltd, acting as Galliums appointed representative, misled Mr J into certifying 
himself as belonging in a category of investor that he didnt belong to  a restricted 
investor. They did this by changing the term used to everyday investor and 
describing the category as being one anyone could fall into. This didnt treat Mr J 
fairly or act in his best interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled Mr J, 
its unlikely he would have certified himself as being a restricted investor.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, again as Galliums appointed 
representative, didnt meet the requirements of the rules. If it had, it would have been 
apparent the bonds werent an appropriate investment for Mr J.
With a more reasonable test of Mr Js knowledge and experience of these bonds, I 
find its likely hed have either appreciated their risk and not proceeded, or BG Ltd 
should have concluded it wasnt reasonable for them to sell the bonds to Mr J.
Gallium have referred to an email from 2019 that talked about the risks affecting 
bonds like Mr Js. But Im not satisfied that did enough to inform Mr J about how that 
related to him specifically. Mr J couldnt have been aware from the email that BG Ltd 
hadnt taken suitable steps to assess his knowledge and experience when selling him 
the bonds.Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr J as close to the position 
he would probably now be in if he hadnt invested in the bond.
I take the view that Mr J would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr J's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mr J fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mr J's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay to Mr J £250 for the distress caused by the total loss of his investment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom 
("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional interest
(if not settled within 
28 days of the 
business receiving 
the complainant's 
acceptance)
4 Year 
Compounding 
High-Yield 
BondStill exists 
but illiquidAverage 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per year 
from final decision to 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr J agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take ownership, 
then it may request an undertaking from Mr J that he repays to Gallium any amount he may 
receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr J wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds is a fair measure given Mr J's 
circumstances and objectives. It doesnt mean that Mr J would have invested only in 
a fixed rate bond. Its instead in line with the investment return a consumer could 
have obtained taking a similar level of risk as Mr J would likely have taken.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Js complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above. When doing so, they should provide Mr J with details of 
their calculation in a clear and simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman