DRN-4209822
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited 
(C&G) has rejected a claim for the treatment of her pet dog on the ground that the condition 
treated was linked to a condition that was pre-existing at the date of inception of her policy.
What happened
Miss B insured her pet dog, who Ill refer to as W, with C&G with effect from 1 October 
2022.  
On 21 February 2023, W was taken to the vet as one of his eyes was cloudy. The vets 
conclusion was that he had an indication of previous corneal trauma with resultant reflex 
uveitis. He was referred to a specialist whose conclusion was that this was from an injury to 
which the uveitis was secondary. Miss B made a claim to C&G for the cost of Ws treatment.
On reviewing Ws previous medical history, C&G noted that in June 2022, before Miss B 
took out her policy, W had received treatment for uveitis in his left eye. According to his vet, 
this uveitis was secondary to a trauma and ulceration. It healed in response to treatment at 
that time and no further treatment was needed. His right eye was also examined and was 
found to be normal.
 
C&G argues that the conditions are linked, and refers to various terms of Miss Bs policy 
including:
Insurance Product Information Document
What is not insured?
Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that relates to a Pre-existing Condition
Policy Definitions
Pre-Existing Condition - Means any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or 
Associated Condition which has happened or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms of 
existing in any form before the Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period.
Bilateral Condition -  Means any medical Condition that can affect body parts of which 
Your pet has two. on either side of its body, such as ears, eyes, knees, kneecaps, front 
and back legs and feet, cruciate ligaments, hips, mammary glands, lungs, kidneys, 
ovaries, testicles, shoulders and elbows and which can occur at different times. When 
applying the Benefit Limit and the terms of this Policy, any Treatment for Bilateral 
Conditions will be considered as one Condition, regardless of when the Treatment 
occurred.
Veterinary Fees
What is not insured?
 Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that relates to a Pre-existing Condition
 Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that showed Clinical Signs or Symptoms 
before Your Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period
The following exclusions apply to the whole of this Policy. We will not pay claims for any 
of the following reasons:
 If We are made aware of any Pre-existing Conditions at the time of a claim, these 
Pre-Existing Conditions will not be covered and We reserve the right add a relevant 
endorsement(s) to Your Policy in respect of these Pre-Existing Conditions.
In response to C&Gs rejection of Miss Bs claim, Ws eye specialist contacted C&G and 
informed it that the injury to Ws right eye for which he was treated in February 2023 was a 
new injury leading to uveitis, and that in her clinical opinion it was not linked to the condition 
of Ws left eye that had been successfully treated in June 2022. She also stated that W had 
underlying KCS (dry eye) in his right eye which his left eye didnt have. She asked that 
C&Gs decision to reject Miss Bs claim be reconsidered. C&G maintained its rejection of her 
claim.
As Miss B was dissatisfied with C&Gs decision to reject her claim she brought a complaint 
to this service. She wants C&G to settle her claim.
Our investigators view was that she hadnt seen any evidence to support C&Gs belief that 
the previous corneal trauma that impacted Ws left eye was likely to have affected his right 
eye. She didnt feel that C&G had done enough to establish that the uveitis was pre-existing 
and so it followed that she didnt feel C&G had acted fairly in declining Miss Bs claim. She 
recommended that B settle Miss Bs claim in line with the remaining policy terms, and in 
addition to this pay Miss B £100 compensation for the distress caused.
C&G doesnt agree with our investigators view. It referred to eyes being bilateral, and that 
bilateral conditions arent covered by the policy. It says that because uveitis was seen in one 
of Ws eyes in June 2022, which pre-dated the policy, Miss B would therefore not be covered 
when it appeared in the other eye in February 2023 as it was a condition that had shown 
symptoms before policy inception.
As C&G doesnt accept our investigators view, Miss Bs complaint has been referred to me 
as an ombudsman for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Miss Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive looked in particular at the nature of the condition for which W was treated and for which 
Miss B is claiming, and at the specialist veterinary opinion. This informs me that Ws uveitis 
in both June 2022 and February 2023 was secondary to trauma. It occurred in different eyes. 
The uveitis in June 2022 had cleared up shortly after treatment was given for it and didnt 
reappear. Another traumatic incident occurred to lead to another episode of uveitis in 
February 2023 in the other eye. 
The specialist eye vets professional opinion is that there was no connection between the 
two occurrences. I place considerable weight on this, and C&G hasnt provided any medical 
evidence of its own to support its rejection of Miss Bs claim on this ground. I also consider that its unfair to treat as a pre-existing condition a condition such as uveitis 
that can be caused by a traumatic incident. Because W sustained a trauma to his left eye 
leading to uveitis, I dont consider that he was pre-disposed to receiving another trauma 
which might have led to uveitis again in either eye. I dont consider it  can be regarded as 
similar to a condition that is linked to an illness or a disease that has shown previous 
symptoms and which might reoccur. The occurrence in February 2023 was in my view a new 
condition and not the continuation of one that existed before policy inception.
My conclusion is that C&G has not acted fairly towards Miss B in its assessment of her claim 
and that it should settle it. I also consider that £100 compensation for her distress and upset 
is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Miss Bs complaint. 
I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited:
1. to settle Miss Bs claim subject to any other terms and conditions of her policy.
2. to pay Miss B interest on any sum so paid to her at the simple rate of 8% from the 
date of her claim until payment is made to her.
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it 
should tell Miss B how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
3. to pay Miss B compensation of £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman