DRN-4409266
The complaint
Mr A complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Hitachi Capital Consumer 
Finance (Hitachi) rejected his claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) regarding 
his purchase of a points-based holiday product. The loan used to make the purchase is in 
Mr As sole name, which is why the complaint is in Mr As name only. But since Mr A bought 
the product with his wife, Ill refer to Mr and Mrs A throughout much of this decision.
What happened
In 2019 during a promotional holiday, Mr and Mrs A entered into a contract with a company 
(the Company) for the purchase of a holiday club membership. The membership was 
designed to allow them to use points to book holiday accommodation at a variety of resorts 
for a set number of years.
They funded the purchase with a loan for £16,388 from Hitachi to Mr A.
Mr and Mrs A say:
They made it clear to Hitachi that they wanted to be able to take a ten-day break to 
Spain in the school Christmas holidays and another ten-day break to Spain in the 
school summer holidays.
The Company recommended a 1,200 point membership at a cost of £16,388, and 
provided them with an illustration of holidays matching their requirements which it 
said theyd be able to take with that level of points.
They quickly realised that 1,200 points per year wouldnt actually be anywhere near 
enough to take the holidays that they wanted. They raised this and were told it would 
be possible if they used special offers and getaways.
They told the Company within the 14-day cooling-off period that they wished to 
cancel their membership.
In response to their cancellation request, the Company accepted that their points 
allocation clearly wasnt enough, and offered them a free 7-day holiday to keep the 
membership in place, during which an adjustment to their points allocation would be 
looked at.
Theyve discovered that the Company actually based its points illustration on weeks 
outside school holidays.
They felt very pressured to keep the membership and withdraw their cancellation.
They were also encouraged to sign up by an invitation programme, under which 
theyd receive £100 for every family they referred to the Company who subsequently 
took a holiday with it. This would double to £200 per referral after the fourth referral. 
They were confident that they could earn more than enough through this to pay the 
yearly membership fee.
The Companys sales team is no longer operating, so they cant make use of the 
referral scheme. This amounts to a huge change to the membership they were sold.
They havent been able to use any of their points due to being too frightened to use 
them and becoming more involved with the company that [they] no longer trust.
They are liable for annual maintenance costs of approximately £850, and will suffer 
further financial hardship if they pay for a product thats of no use to them.
Hitachi rejected Mr As claim. It said:
Notes made on the day the Company met with Mr and Mrs A to discuss the purchase 
show that they wanted to use the membership with family and take advantage of 
special offers and holiday exchanges.
Mr and Mrs A were given ample time to read all the paperwork before signing.
Mr and Mrs A subsequently booked holidays, indicating that they wanted to continue 
with the membership.
Mr and Mrs A requested cancellation of their membership within the cooling-off 
period. But a few days later, Mr A asked for clarification on how to make the most of 
the membership, so that they could make a final decision. A call was arranged for the 
same day to discuss the different membership levels and accommodation options, 
and a couple of days after that, Mrs A told the Company theyd changed their mind 
and wanted to go ahead after all.
One of our investigators considered Mr As complaint, but didnt recommend that it should be 
upheld. In summary, she didnt think thered been any misrepresentation on the part of the 
Company and she didnt think it had breached its contract with Mr A. She also considered 
whether a court might consider the relationship between Mr A and Hitachi to have been 
unfair. But she wasnt convinced it would. So she didnt think it was unfair of Hitachi to turn 
down Mr As claim.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaint was passed to me.My first provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr A 
and to Hitachi on 5 April 2023. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have 
happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Having done so, I dont think Hitachi has acted entirely fairly in declining Mr As claim. Ill 
explain why.
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact made by one 
party to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party to enter 
the contract.
Under s.75(1) CCA a consumer who has a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against a supplier may be able to bring that claim against a lender. 
And under s.56 CCA statements made by a broker in connection with a consumer loan 
are treated as having been made as agent for the lender.
The central point of Mr As complaint is that he and Mrs A believe that the Company mis- 
sold them the holiday club membership because it led them to believe that theyd be able 
to use their points to take more than one holiday per year during school holidays, but that 
turned out not to be true.
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs A genuinely believe they were told theyd be able to use 
their annual points allocation to take more than one holiday per year during school 
holidays. But Im not persuaded that this was because of any factually inaccurate 
statements by the Companys representative.
There are some inconsistencies in what Mr and Mrs A have said about what they told the 
Company about their requirements when they took out the membership. On our 
complaint form, completed around 11 months after they took out the membership, they 
said theyd set out their requirements to the Company. And they said those were a ten- 
day holiday to Spain in the Christmas holiday and another ten-day break to Spain in the 
summer holiday. They said the Company recommended a 1,200 point membership 
costing £16,388.
But in a letter to the Company just over a year after Mr and Mrs A completed our 
complaint form, they said they clearly stated their requirements at the meeting on the day 
they took out the membership. And they said those requirements were a week in the 
school summer holidays in a particular part of Spain, a week in Spain in either the April, 
June or October half term holiday and a week in one of the Canary Islands at Christmas 
time for their family of two adults and three children. While the total length of holidays is 
broadly the same, the two accounts are different.The Company has provided computer notes of its meeting with Mr and Mrs A written on 
the day of the meeting when they took out the membership. In those notes, it says that 
they wanted to use mainly exchange or cash deals for their holidays. And it says They 
understand that if they travel in school holidays with CLC pts they will get 1 wk a year. 
Both happy with that.
A further computer note, written the day after they took out the membership, states that 
Mr and Mrs A said theyd take a minimum of one holiday per year. Theyd mainly travel in 
school holidays, and would sometimes have their three children with them, rather than 
just the two who were there with them when they took the membership out. They said 
theyd use their points and upgrade for the main holiday, and would use other means and 
deals for other holidays and breaks.
The Company has also provided a computer note of a phone conversation between Mr A 
and the Companys representative two days before the end of the cooling-off period. It 
states that Mr A said that idea was to use CLC and not pay extra, reminded Mr that in 
my office I explained that for their pts theyre get 1 wk and rest with cash. Mr agreed to it 
but now would like to know how to get the most of it. Offered that we can change the 
membership to get more pts. Mr interested in that as he wants to take his final decision 
today.
Mr and Mrs A say that when they told the Company they wanted to cancel their 
membership, it admitted that their points allocation wasnt enough to book the holidays 
they wanted, but it told them theyd need to travel to Spain to put it right. They say that 
the Company then used the fact that they tried to book a holiday to sort the situation out 
as evidence that they were happy with their membership.
But having considered all the evidence thats been provided, Im not satisfied, on 
balance, that the Company told Mr and Mrs A that theyd be able to book more than one 
holiday per year in the school holidays using their points. I think that the points that they 
bought were in line with what they told the company they wanted. And I think that Mr and 
Mrs A were aware of this when they decided to continue with their membership rather 
than cancelling.
Its apparent from both what Mr and Mrs A have told us and from the Companys notes 
that the possibility of changing the membership to include more points was discussed. 
But Im not persuaded that this was because the Company hadnt reflected Mr and 
Mrs As wishes or instructions in the number of points included in the membership they 
bought. Nor am I persuaded that the Company misrepresented what Mr and Mrs A would 
be able to do with those points.
As far as the referral programme is concerned, I accept that Mr and Mrs A had planned 
to use it to generate money to put towards their holidays. They joined the referral 
programme when they bought the holiday club membership. They say that the 
Companys representative told them they could earn more than enough, using the 
referral programme, to cover their yearly maintenance payments to the Company.
I can understand Mr and Mrs As disappointment that they havent been able to take 
advantage of the referral programme. But I can only require Hitachi to take action to put 
things right if I think there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract by the 
Company.At the time when Mr and Mrs A took out their membership of the holiday club, the referral 
scheme was up and running and Ive seen nothing to make me think that the Company 
was aware that the scheme would be withdrawn. So I dont think the Company 
misrepresented the position when it told Mr and Mrs A about the referral scheme or the 
potential to generate money by referring friends. But I need also to consider whether 
there was a breach of contract with regard to the referral scheme.
Breach of contract
I cant see any reference to the referral scheme in the acquisition agreement, or anything 
to make me think that it formed an integral part of the holiday club membership that 
Mr and Mrs A used the loan to buy. And I havent seen anything to make me think that 
the Company guaranteed that theyd be able to generate income from the referral 
scheme.
However, s.50(1) Consumer Rights Act 2015 provides that:
Every contract to supply a service is to be treated as including as a term of the contract 
anything that is said or written to the consumer, by or on behalf of the trader, about the 
trader or the service, if
(a) it is taken into account by the consumer when deciding to enter into the contract, or
(b) it is taken into account by the consumer when making any decision about the service 
after entering into the contract.
Based on the evidence provided, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs A were told that theyd be 
able to use the referral programme to generate income. And I accept that they took this 
into account when deciding to take out the membership. So I consider the ability to use 
the referral programme amounted to a term of the contract in this particular case. And 
based on the facts of this particular case, I think the fact that the closure of the referral 
scheme has prevented Mr and Mrs A from taking advantage of this benefit, amounts to a 
breach of contract on the Companys part. Mr A, as the borrower, has a like claim for that 
breach against Hitachi, under s.75 CCA. And Im not persuaded that it was reasonable of 
Hitachi to turn down his claim.
As Im considering Hitachis liability for a like claim, I need to consider what remedies or 
relief a court might order against the supplier in this sort of situation.
The referral scheme is no longer operating. In the absence of any specific clause in the 
contract providing for a remedy in this situation, a court would need to consider the law 
on damages.
Damages for breach of contract are designed to compensate the party thats lost out for 
their loss. The aim is to put them in the position theyd have been in if the contract had 
been performed, as far as that can be done by a monetary award. So assessing 
damages involves comparing the position the claimant is in following the breach of 
contract with the position theyd have been in if the breach hadnt happened.Mr and Mrs A would have received £100 each time a friend or family member they 
referred took a promotional holiday and attended a presentation with the company. If a 
fourth referral was made in a given calendar year, the referral reward would have 
doubled to £200. It looks, from the email Mr and Mrs A were sent about the scheme, as if 
this worked retrospectively- in other words if Mr and Mrs A had made a fourth successful 
referral in a given calendar year, their credit would automatically have increased to £800 
for that year.
Deciding how much compensation Mr A should receive for this breach of contract isnt 
straightforward. Given that the referral scheme closed early in their membership, Mr and 
Mrs A had little, if any, chance to use it. So I have no history of referrals by Mr and Mrs A 
to take into account in deciding how much use of the scheme its realistically likely theyd 
have made if it had continued to operate.
But I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs A aimed to generate significant returns from the referral 
scheme. And I accept that its likely that theyd have made a number of successful 
referrals in the first couple of years. But I think its unlikely that theyd have been able to 
continue to introduce a significant number of new members year after year indefinitely. 
And after the first couple of years, I think its more likely than not that the referrals would 
have tailed off.
As theres no history of referrals by Mr and Mrs A to go on, I have to take a broad-brush 
approach to deciding how much its fair to require Hitachi to pay. Overall, I think its 
reasonable to suggest that Mr and Mrs A are likely to have generated enough income 
through the referral scheme to cover their yearly membership fees of the holiday club for 
two years. Those fees are shown in the acquisition agreement as 990 euros per year, 
which amounts to roughly £875 per year at current exchange rates. So two years worth 
of management charges equate to roughly £1,750, which I think is a practical and 
proportionate estimate of Mr and Mrs As likely loss. So I think Hitachi should pay that 
amount to Mr A.
Unfair relationship
Our investigator also considered whether there was an unfair relationship between Mr A 
and the Company. S.140A CCA gives a court power to require a creditor to repay any 
sum paid by the debtor under a credit agreement if it determines that theres an unfair 
relationship between the debtor and the creditor. Only a court has the power to decide 
the outcome of a claim under s.140A. But I need to consider whether it was fair and 
reasonable of Hitachi to turn down Mr As claim.
I havent seen anything to make me think that Mr and Mrs A were unduly pressured into 
taking out the holiday club membership or taking out the loan to fund the purchase, or 
that the Company used unacceptable commercial practices in its dealings with Mr and 
Mrs A.
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs A say that none of the resorts are fully functioning, and 
there are no shops, bars or restaurants on site. They also say that the accommodation is 
no longer exclusive. Theyve discovered that anyone can book, and holidays are 
available online for a fraction of the price theyve paid.
But Im not convinced, based on the evidence Ive seen, that Mr and Mrs A were told that 
the accommodation would be, or remain, exclusive to members of the holiday club. Nor 
have I seen anything to make me think they were given any guarantee that particular 
facilities would be available.And as Ive commented above, I think that the holiday club membership Mr and Mrs A 
bought with the loan from Hitachi was in line with what they told the Company they 
wanted. Taking everything into account, I think it unlikely that a court would conclude that 
the relationship between Mr and Mrs A and Hitachi was unfair.
Putting things right
My provisional decision is that Hitachi should pay Mr A £1,750 to compensate him for the 
fact that he wasnt able to benefit from the referral scheme.
My second provisional decision
Both Mr and Mrs A and Hitachi commented on my first provisional decision. And having 
considered the further comments and evidence provided by both parties, I issued a second 
provisional decision to Mr A and to Hitachi on 21 August 2023. I explained that Id taken into 
account everything the parties had said, but I summarised the main points as follows.
Mr and Mrs As further comments
Mr and Mrs A reiterated that they were told that the resorts would be exclusive, but thats 
turned out not to be the case.
They also said the following valuable incentives to take out the membership were offered but 
not delivered:
£1,000 worth of flight vouchers, which they claim had no expiration date.
A free bonus week. Mr and Mrs A say they were originally told it could be used for 
Christmas, and that it was extended once due to covid, but has now expired. They 
value this at £1,500, based on the current price to stay at Christmas.
A further free break, offered as an incentive not to cancel, when Mr and Mrs A said 
they wanted to cancel within the cooling-off period.
They said they were specifically told they could earn £2,400 per year and that one family 
was making 20 referrals per year. They said this was a deciding factor, and that they had 
20,000 followers on their social media. They said they had ten enquiries from just one post.
They havent paid maintenance fees since 2020. They said the unpaid fees total around 
£3,080. They said they were advised not to pay them while the case was with this service. 
They pointed out that theyve been making their finance payments to Hitachi, but havent 
been able to use the resort because of the missed maintenance payments. So theyve been 
paying for holidays elsewhere.
Hitachis further comments
Hitachi said it didnt accept that the referral scheme formed part of the contract for two 
reasons:
a. it didnt form part of the acquisition agreement.
b. It wasnt guaranteed that the referral scheme would run indefinitelyHitachi also said it believes that its unlikely that Mr and Mrs A would have made many, if 
any referrals because:
a. They were dissatisfied with various aspects of the membership
b. Any referrals they did make would have been subject to acceptance by the Company, 
and probably subject to acceptance for a loan too. So they werent guaranteed to 
succeed.
c. Mr and Mrs A didnt make any referrals before the referral scheme was suspended in 
March 2020.
d. The average referral income generated by members was no more than £4 or £5 per 
year.
Hitachi said that it was prepared to offer Mr and Mrs A a goodwill gesture of £200 to reflect 
their disappointment that the referral scheme was withdrawn. But it didnt accept that any 
further compensation was appropriate.
The findings in my second provisional decision
I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill comment on the further submissions the parties have made in turn, starting with what 
Mr and Mrs A have said.
Mr and Mrs As further points
I said in my previous provisional decision that Id seen no evidence that Mr and Mrs A 
were told that the resorts available to them as members would be exclusive. Ive seen 
nothing to make me change my view about that.
Mr and Mrs A have provided copies of the flight vouchers, which they say had no 
expiration date. But the vouchers show an issue date of 30 December 2019. And Mr and 
Mrs A have provided a copy of what appears to be the back of the vouchers, which 
clearly says that theyre valid for a year after issue. So on that basis, theyd have been 
valid until 30 December 2020.
As regards the free bonus week, Mr and Mrs A have provided a copy of the certificate 
they were given. Its dated 30 December 2019. The terms and conditions are printed on 
the back. They state that the certificate must be redeemed within 90 days of the 
membership being taken out, and the holiday accommodation must be used within the 
first 12 months of membership.In the end, Mr and Mrs A didnt make use of the flight vouchers or the bonus week. 
I dont know whether that was because they were dissatisfied with the membership, or 
because travel was difficult or impossible due to the covid pandemic, or for some other 
reason. Ive seen nothing to make me think that Mr and Mrs A wouldnt have been able to 
take advantage of the bonus week if it hadnt been for the difficulties with travel that 
arose during the pandemic. The travel restrictions would inevitably have made it more 
difficult for Mr and Mrs A to go on holiday. But that difficulty was the result of events 
beyond the control of any party to the contract, and not a breach of contract on the 
Companys part.
A contract is sometimes described as being frustrated if something happens after the 
contract is formed which makes it physically, legally or commercially impossible to fulfil 
the contract. But I dont need to consider whether the contract was frustrated in this case 
because even if it was, frustration is different from a breach of contract. And the only 
claim I have the jurisdiction to consider here is one of breach of contract under 
Section 75 of the CCA. And Ive seen nothing to make me think that the Company 
breached the contract regarding the bonus week. So I cant fairly require Hitachi to 
compensate Mr and Mrs A for the fact that they didnt use it.
The possibility of a further free break, which Mr and Mrs A say was offered by the 
Company as an incentive not to cancel their membership, only arose once their 
membership was up and running. It couldnt have amounted to a misrepresentation on 
the Companys part, as a misrepresentation is a statement that induces someone to 
enter a contract. It didnt form part of the contract between Mr and Mrs A and the 
Company. So again, I cant fairly require Hitachi to compensate Mr and Mrs A for the fact 
that they didnt take the further free break.
It isnt clear who advised Mr and Mrs A not to pay their maintenance fees while their 
complaint was being considered by this service. But I think its unlikely that the advice 
came from the Company. The decision to withhold maintenance fees was ultimately 
Mr and Mrs As. And I cant see how any failure to use their membership as a result could 
be said to arise from a breach of contract on the Companys part. So I couldnt require 
Hitachi to provide Mr and Mrs A with any redress in respect of that part of their complaint.
As Hitachi and Mr and Mrs A have both commented further on the question of the referral 
bonus scheme, Ill consider their comments together, after dealing briefly with the other 
points Hitachi has made in response to my provisional decision.
Hitachis further points
Hitachi has commented that the referral scheme didnt form part of the contract because 
it wasnt referred to in the acquisition agreement. I acknowledged in my previous 
provisional decision that I could see no mention of the referral scheme in the acquisition 
agreement. But I explained in some detail why I consider that 50(1) Consumer Rights Act 
2015 meant that the ability to use the referral programme amounted to a term of the 
contract in Mr and Mrs As particular case. And my view remains unchanged.
Hitachi says there was no guarantee that the referral scheme would continue indefinitely. 
But given that Im satisfied that the ability to use the referral scheme formed part of the 
contract, I dont see any reason why it should be treated differently from any other 
provision of the contract. The ability to use the referral scheme was part of what Mr and 
Mrs A believed they would receive as part of their membership.I accepted in my previous provisional decision that Mr and Mrs A believed that they could 
earn a considerable amount of money by referring friends, and that they took this into 
account when deciding to take out the membership. I take Hitachis point that the 
average referral income generated by members was only £4-£5 per year. But thats only 
an average, and it doesnt mean that it wouldnt have been possible to earn more  or 
even considerably more. And if a member did make a large number of referrals, its likely 
that at least some of them would have been successful.
But I find the other points that Hitachi has made persuasive. Mr and Mrs A have told us 
they had ten expressions of interest in response to one social media post. But 
Hitachi has pointed out that they didnt make any referrals at all before the scheme was 
suspended in March 2020, even though they had the opportunity to do so.
If Mr and Mrs A making a large number of referrals was a realistic prospect, I think its 
likely that theyd have started to refer people before the scheme was withdrawn. 
Hitachi has also commented that Mr and Mrs A were dissatisfied with various aspects of 
their membership. This is supported by comments that Mr and Mrs A have made during 
the course of the complaint. And Im persuaded by Hitachis argument that its unlikely 
that Mr and Mrs A would have wanted to recommend something they were so 
dissatisfied with.
Ultimately, Mr and Mrs A were dissatisfied with their membership. But Ive seen nothing 
to make me think that dissatisfaction arose from any misrepresentation or breach of 
contract on the Companys part. The only breach of contract Ive identified was the 
withdrawal of the referral scheme. I dont doubt that when they took out the membership, 
Mr and Mrs A genuinely planned to generate income by referring friends. But taking into 
account Hitachis further comments, Mr and Mrs As dissatisfaction with the membership, 
and the lack of any referrals while the scheme was still up and running, Im not convinced 
that theyd have made many, if any referrals under the scheme.
Taking everything into account, I no longer believe that it would be fair to require 
Hitachi to compensate Mr and Mrs A for the Companys breach of contract in withdrawing 
the referral scheme. This is because Im not persuaded, on balance, that Mr and Mrs A 
suffered any loss as a result.
If Mr and Mrs A wish to accept Hitachis goodwill offer of £200, they should contact 
Hitachi directly.
Further submissions following my second provisional decision
Mr and Mrs A have provided some further comments and evidence in response to my 
second provisional decision. As in the case of my previous decisions, Ive taken into account 
everything theyve said, but Ill summarise what I consider to be the main points here.
Mr and Mrs A have reiterated that they were told they could have more than one 
holiday per year in school holidays right at the beginning of the complaint. Theyve 
sent an illustration which they believe shows this.
Mr and Mrs A say the relationship is unfair because they havent been able to use the 
club, due to it not meeting their requirements.
Mr and Mrs A say there was less than a month between them returning from holiday 
in early January 2020 and the first cases of covid, and thats why they didnt make 
referrals. Mr and Mrs A have pointed out that members would have been paid (£100) for 
referrals after a referred family had had a holiday and attended a presentation. 
Theyd have received further payment (£200) for anyone they referred who 
subsequently became a member. 
Mr and Mrs A have challenged Bs assertion that the average referral income was £4 
or £5 per year. 
Mr and Mrs A have reiterated that they were told the resorts would be exclusive. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont consider that theres a good reason to depart from the conclusions 
I set out in my second provisional decision. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the further comments and evidence provided by Mr and Mrs A, but my view 
remains that the Company made it clear to them before they took out the membership that 
their points would only enable them to take one holiday per year in school holidays, and that 
if they wanted to take further breaks during school holidays, theyd need to use other means. 
I think Mr and Mrs A understood that at the time. And I dont find that the Company 
misrepresented the position.
I acknowledged in my second provisional decision that the referral bonus income figure of 
£4/£5 quoted by Hitachi is only an average figure. A member making even a single referral 
would have generated a referral bonus of £100. I think its reasonable to assume that the 
average of £4/£5 took into account all members, including many who made no referrals at 
all. I also acknowledged in my second provisional decision that reference to an average 
figure doesnt take a members individual earning potential into account.
I accept Mr and Mrs As point that it looks as if they could, in theory, have earned at least 
£800 per year just by persuading four families to take a promotional holiday and attend a 
presentation. It seems that their contacts wouldnt, in fact, have had to be accepted as 
members of the club, or be approved for a loan, in order for them to have received the initial 
£100 referral bonus. And I have no reason to doubt Mr and Mrs A when they say that the 
fact that they were dissatisfied with the facilities available to them as members wouldnt have 
put them off making referrals.
But Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs As assertion that the reason they didnt make any 
referrals was due to the brief window between returning from their first holiday with the 
Company and the first covid cases. Travel restrictions werent imposed until mid-March 2020 
 the same month that the referral scheme was withdrawn. That would still have given 
Mr and Mrs A a good two months to make referrals. 
It may well be that if Mr and Mrs A had made referrals during that time, the holidays wouldnt 
have ended up actually going ahead due to covid restrictions. But Id have thought that 
Mr and Mrs A would have been particularly keen to make referrals when they returned from 
their holiday in January 2020, with their initial enthusiasm for the membership, and the 
memory of the holiday fresh in their minds. And if they had as many potentially enthusiastic 
contacts as they say they did, I think it likely theyd have made at least one referral before it 
became clear that nobody was going to be able to travel for a while. Ive explained previously that I dont accept Mr and Mrs As assertion that they were told that 
the resorts available to them as club members would be exclusive. Mr and Mrs A also 
complain that holidays at the Companys resorts are still available to the general public even 
when theres no availability for members. Theyve provided screenshots of online forums in 
which others have expressed frustration and disappointment at not being able to book 
accommodation, even far in advance. 
But I think its fair to assume that demand increases in school holidays. As Ive previously 
commented, it was made clear in the paperwork that accommodation was subject to 
availability, and the Company is unlikely to have been in a position to know, at the time of 
sale, that specific accommodation wouldnt be available when Mr and Mrs A wanted to book 
it. So I cant reasonably find that the Company misrepresented the position or that the 
unavailability of specific accommodation amounted to a breach of contract.
Finally, as Ive previously explained, I dont accept that any failure of the membership to 
meet Mr and Mrs As requirements was due to any misrepresentation or breach of contract 
on the Companys part. And I think it unlikely that a court would consider the relationship 
between Mr A and Hitachi to be unfair under Section 140A of the CCA.
I know that Mr and Mrs A will be disappointed with my decision. I realise that they are 
disappointed with their membership. But for the reasons Ive set out, having thought carefully 
about all the submissions and evidence provided by both parties, I consider that I cant fairly 
uphold this complaint, or require Hitachi to take any further action.
If Mr and Mrs A wish to accept the £200 that Hitachi has offered them as a goodwill gesture, 
they should contact Hitachi directly.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman