DRN-1340386
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the quality of the replacement sofa she was given when she claimed 
on her Product Insurance Cover underwritten by Caversham Insurance Limited.
What happened
In November 2017 Mrs M bought a sofa on a hire-purchase agreement, and took out a 
Product Insurance Cover (PIC) policy at the same time, to cover it against accidental 
damage and theft. 
In June 2019 Mrs Ms sofa was damaged so she made a claim on her insurance. 
Caversham sent an engineer who decided the sofa was beyond economic repair, so should 
be replaced under the terms of the PIC.
But Mrs M wasnt happy with the replacement sofa. Caversham sent out a manager who 
offered to replace the sofa with an upgraded model, but Mrs M refused it as it was a different 
colour. She complained to Caversham. In its final response letter Caversham said that it had 
complied with the terms and conditions of the policy, in that as the exact product was no 
longer available, they had provided an equivalent or better model. 
Mrs M didnt accept this and complained to our service. She said the replacement sofa 
wasnt the same colour shade, was smaller and wasnt as comfortable. She also said it 
wasnt leather. 
Our investigator thought Caversham had treated Mrs M fairly in replacing her sofa with the 
model they had, and in offering an upgraded replacement. But Mrs M didnt agree so the 
complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When, in 2019, Mrs Ms sofa was damaged, and Caversham decided it was beyond 
economical repair as the damage was extensive, it agreed to replace it.  Mrs Ms complaint 
is that the replacement wasnt acceptable, so I need to decide if Caversham have followed 
the terms and conditions of the insurance policy, and have been fair to Mrs M whilst doing 
so.
I have looked at the PIC policy document that Mrs M signed when she purchased the sofa. 
Under section H, which refers to settlement of a claim, it says:
.replacing such stolen or damaged goods with goods of an equivalent age and general 
specification or better general specification.
Ive seen photographs of both the damaged, and replacement sofas. And Ive seen the order 
and delivery manifest which shows the same stock number for both, and Caversham have 
said this number proves the sofas are the same brand and type. The stock manifest says 
both are leather, and the photographs show two very similar sofas. Whilst I do agree that the 
shade of beige in the photograph of the replacement sofa is a little darker, I dont think this 
makes a significant difference, as it is generally the same colour. So Im satisfied Caversham 
were fair in saying the replacement sofa was of an equivalent age (it was actually newer) 
and general specification.
And Ive also seen that a manager visited Mrs M following her complaint, and offered to 
replace the replacement sofa, with a brand-new and upgraded version, which she declined 
because it was a different colour.
So, given all the above Im satisfied that in its replacement of the sofa, Caversham followed 
the terms and conditions of the policy, and did so fairly.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman