DRN-1611717
The complaint
Mr F complains about the service he received when he contacted Sainsburys Bank about a 
loan application. He says he was asked to repay the loan immediately. 
What happened
In May 2019 Mr F applied for a loan online. He says he didnt receive a copy of the loan 
agreement or confirmation of the term or whether a deferment period applied. Following the 
application, Mr F received a secure message but was unbale to open it. He contacted 
Sainsburys and says that during the conversation he was asked to repay the loan 
immediately. He also says he was spoken to rudely by a manager and was refused a call 
back. Mr F complained to Sainsburys.
In response, Sainsburys said Mr F had misunderstood the demand for payment. It also said 
Mr F hadnt selected the deferred payment option when he applied for the loan and it wasnt 
something which could be changed once the loan was open. Sainsburys said it had issued a 
letter to Mr F confirming the monthly payments and the final payment date.
Mr F returned the loan amount in July 2019. Sainsburys credited the account to cover 
interest and waived early settlement charges.
Mr F wasnt happy with Sainsburys response and complained to this service. He wants 
compensation for the time its taken him to resolve matters.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Mr F had electronically signed the 
loan agreement which stated the length of the repayment term and when payments would 
start. The investigator listened to the call between Mr F and Sainsburys but didnt think that 
immediate repayment of the loan had been demanded. He thought that Sainsburys had dealt 
with Mr Fs complaint fairly. 
Mr F didnt agree. He said hed never received a copy of the loan agreement. He disagreed 
with the investigators interpretation of the telephone call and said it was unacceptable that 
hed been asked to repay the loan immediately. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr F applied for the loan online. It was therefore up to Mr F to select the 
amount of the loan, the term and any other requirements (such as deferred payment). Part of 
the online process requires Mr F to read the loan agreement (including the terms and 
conditions) and electronically sign it. I can see that Mr f signed the agreement so I wouldve 
expected him to have read through it and to have been aware of the terms of borrowing.
Mr F has said he wasnt provided with a copy of the loan agreement. As part of the online 
application process, Mr F wouldve had the opportunity to download the agreement including 
the terms and conditions. I can also see that Sainsburys issued a letter to Mr F confirming 
the monthly payments and the first payment date. On balance, I think Mr F was provided 
with adequate information about the loan.
Ive listened to the call between Mr F and Sainsburys. Mr F has said that immediate 
repayment of the loan was demanded. Hes also said that the call handler was rude and 
refused a call back. Having listened to the call, its fair to say that Mr F was frustrated, and 
that the advisor appeared to have difficulty understanding what Mr F wanted. The call ended 
quite contentiously but on balance I cant fairly conclude that the advisor was rude. I agree 
with Mr F that he was refused a call back but Sainsburys has explained that its call centre 
takes inbound calls only. 
In relation to demanding immediate repayment of the loan, this part of the conversation 
came towards the end of the call when Mr F said he wanted to repay the loan and obtain 
another loan elsewhere.  On balance, I think there was a misunderstanding between Mr F 
and the call handler. Im satisfied that the call handler was trying to explain to Mr F that the 
loan didnt need to be repaid immediately but Mr F thought he was being asked to repay the 
loan immediately and was talking over the call handler. Its clear that neither party could 
effectively communicate with the other in those circumstances. Having considered 
everything, I dont think Sainsburys did anything wrong.
I can see that Mr F has since repaid the loan and that interest and early repayment charges 
were waived. I think this was a fair and reasonable way to resolve the complaint and I wont 
be asking Sainsburys to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman