DRN-3953127
The complaint
Ms H complains about the service from Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) under her home 
emergency policy when she had a problem with her boiler and heating system.
References to Aviva include their agents who provide services and deal with claims under 
the policy.
What happened
In October 2022, Ms H had a problem with a leak in her boiler in the late evening, so she 
contacted Aviva for assistance. Aviva offered her an appointment for the afternoon the next 
day as the leak had been contained, although Ms H wanted an earlier appointment. An 
engineer attended and diagnosed a leaking flow valve, which required a replacement valve 
to be ordered and fitted (which took place the following day). The issue and visit followed an 
earlier issue with the boiler the previous week when an engineer attended and re-
pressurised the system.
However, Ms H wasnt happy that a leak had happened so soon after the first visit, and she 
hadnt been called on the morning of the second appointment as shed been told by Aviva to 
expect. So, she complained to Aviva.
In their first final response, Aviva said the second issue with the boiler wasnt due to the 
quality of repair of the first issue, as there was no leak at the time the engineer fixed the first 
issue. They also noted that theyd offered an appointment for the second issue the day after 
Ms H reported it (and that they wouldnt have attended during the night as the leak had been 
contained). But they apologised for not phoning Ms H on the morning of the second 
appointment, as theyd said they would do.
However, Ms H had further issues with the boiler and an Aviva engineer visited again at the 
start of November. They diagnosed a further leak to the boiler, but Aviva said Ms Hs policy 
didnt cover the issue, so Ms H would have to appoint her own engineer to fix the problem. 
Ms H did so, but the engineer said there was a gas leak and was the result of previous poor-
quality work from Avivas engineers. Aviva offered to contact Ms Hs engineer to discuss his 
views, but this wasnt possible due to an error in the engineers contact number.
Ms H then raised a further complaint with Aviva, saying the most recent issue with her boiler 
was the result of the work carried out by Avivas engineers. Aviva re-opened the complaint 
and issued a second final response. They reiterated their previous acknowledgement of not 
phoning Ms H on the morning of the second appointment. They also acknowledged the 
inconvenience of having to return the day after the second visit to fit parts ordered after the 
second visit Aviva offered £40 compensation for inconvenience to Ms H.
Aviva issued a third final response, covering Ms Hs concern about the most recent issue 
being the result of work by Avivas engineers. They said Ms Hs policy didnt cover the boiler 
itself and the previous repairs by their engineers covered the water pump and pipework (not 
the boiler itself). Aviva also said there was no evidence the work of their engineers caused 
the gas leak but invited Ms H to either arrange for her engineer to speak to Aviva or send the 
job report (or other evidence) from her engineer to support her view. In a fourth final 
response, Aviva said theyd covered all elements of her complaint and reached a resolution.
Ms H then complained to this service. She was unhappy at what had happened and that a 
further issue had arisen with her boiler after previous work by Avivas engineers. She was 
also unhappy at the service provided by Aviva and how shed been treated by Avivas call 
handler (who Ms H said had told her she would no longer speak to her).
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Aviva hadnt acted unfairly. 
She didnt think the evidence indicated the leaks were connected or due to work 
carried out by Avivas engineers. And on the third visit, Aviva made it clear the boiler 
wasnt covered under the policy (only the heating system). Having been given the 
correct contact details for Ms Hs engineer, our investigator thought it reasonable for 
Aviva to offer to contact them to consider the issues and whether the most recent 
issue was connected to the previous work. And while there were some issues with Ms 
H not getting call backs from Aviva, overall she didnt think Aviva had acted unfairly.
Ms H disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering Ms Hs complaint, Ive borne in mind her circumstances, including the 
disability shes told Aviva about (their case notes indicate theyve recorded this and her 
vulnerability). My role here is to decide whether Aviva has acted fairly towards Ms H.
There are two main elements to Ms Hs complaint, First, that the most recent issue with her 
boiler (the gas leak identified by her engineer) was the result of previous work carried out by 
Avivas engineers on two leaks. Based on her engineers opinion, Ms H believes the gas 
leak is connected to the previous work of Avivas engineers. Aviva say theres no evidence 
to support this view and that they didnt carry out work on the boiler itself (as it wasnt 
covered under Ms Hs policy) and the work undertaken was to fix leaks in the heating system 
(as opposed to the boiler itself). But theyve indicated they would be willing to discuss the 
issue directly with Ms Hs engineer. 
The second issue relates to the contact Ms H has had with Aviva, in particular the service 
received from Aviva (specifically, the contact with a call handler) Ms H is unhappy at how 
shes been treated, including not getting call backs when told to expect them from Aviva.
On the first issue, Ive considered carefully all the available evidence and information, both 
from Ms H and from Aviva (including Avivas case notes recording the sequence of events 
and contacts with Ms H). Based on this, Ive concluded the evidence doesnt indicate 
persuasively the previous work carried out by Avivas engineers is connected to, or led to, 
the most recent issue with the boiler (the ga leak). I know this will be disappointing to Ms H, 
so Ill set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
Looking at Avivas case notes, including the notes made by their engineers on the visits (in 
particular the first two visits), they indicate work carried out on two separate leaks, and 
testing of the central heating system on completion of the work indicated no remaining leaks 
(or other issues). And while Ms Hs engineer says the gas leak was connected to the 
previous work carried out by Avivas engineers, Ive seen no reports or other evidence to 
support this view. In the absence of any such evidence, I cant conclude the gas leak was the result of previous 
work by Avivas engineers  particularly as they didnt work on the boiler itself (they worked 
on the heating system, as the boiler itself wasnt covered under Ms Hs policy). Aviva have 
said they are prepared to talk directly to Ms Hs engineer to understand the basis for his 
opinion, and in the evidence of a report or other direct evidence from the engineer, I think 
thats fair and reasonable.
On the second issue, Ive again looked at the available evidence, including the case notes 
recording Avivas contacts with Ms H. Ive also noted Aviva have apologised to Ms H for her 
not receiving call backs when she was told to expect them. And I think the compensation 
offered by Aviva is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case. 
Ive also considered Avivas responsiveness to the problems raised by Ms H. The indications 
are they attended within a reasonable timeframe and fixed the issues identified. I think thats 
fair and reasonable, also given my conclusion above that theres no evidence to indicate 
persuasively that Avivas previous work on the leaks in Ms Hs heating system led to the 
subsequent issue with the gas leak.
Taking these conclusions together, Ive concluded Aviva have acted fairly and reasonably 
towards Ms H, so I wont be asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman