DRN-4078779
The complaint
Mr B complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) gave him a loan without carrying out proportionate checks.
 
What happened
Mr B was advanced one instalment loan by MoneyBoat. He borrowed £800 on 
3 September 2019. He was due to make five monthly instalments of £222.85 and one final 
instalment of £222.79. Mr B repaid the loan on 1 May 2020. 
Following Mr Bs complaint MoneyBoat wrote to him explaining why it wasnt going to uphold 
it. Unhappy, with this outcome, Mr B referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was reviewed by an adjudicator who upheld it. He said the credit check 
results provided to MoneyBoat showed that Mr B was having immediate problems managing 
his money and so the loan ought not to have been granted. 
MoneyBoat didnt agree saying that of the three delinquent accounts one had been like that 
for almost a year and on the other two, Mr B was making repayments towards the balances. 
There wasnt anything to suggest the loan was unaffordable. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr B could afford to pay back the amount 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks couldve taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Bs income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include:
Mr B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr B. The adjudicator didnt think this 
applied to Mr Bs complaint. 
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay the loan  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr B was able to repay 
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B declared his income to be £2,200 per month. MoneyBoat says following a check with a 
credit reference agency that this amount was accurate. 
Mr B declared his expenditure to be £900 per month. MoneyBoat didnt make any 
adjustments to Mr Bs declared expenditure when it carried out its further checks, such as a 
credit search. So, it reasonably concluded that Mr B had around £1,300 per month in 
disposable income to be able to afford his loan repayment. 
MoneyBoat says credit checks were carried out before the loan was granted, and a copy of 
the results have been provided. There was no requirement to carry out a credit search let 
alone one to a required standard.  
MoneyBoat accepts in the final response letter that there was some adverse information 
recorded but it didnt consider this information to be sufficiently adverse to either carry out 
further checks or to have declined Mr Bs application. Whereas the adjudicator said the 
results showed Mr B was having difficulties and so the loan ought not to have been granted. 
Ive considered what both MoneyBoat and the adjudicator has said, but Ive taken on board 
the information MoneyBoat has provided, and Ive summarised it below:
A Finance House account opened in January 20219 was showing by August 2019 
as having arrears of 6. This indicates the contractual repayment hadnt been made 
for at least six months. Its worth saying here that the arrears appear to have 
increased in each of the last six months indicating persistent repayment problems. By 
this time, the lender couldve decided to have started the process of defaulting Mr Bs 
account. 
Another Finance House loan that had been 6 in arrears for at least the last 14 
months. While payments were being made by Mr B these clearly werent enough to 
clear any arrears that had built up on the account. 
Mr B had an overdraft where arrears had started to build since March 2019 and by 
July 2019 the bank was reporting the account as being 4 months in arrears. Finally, a credit card account that had entered arrears in May 2019 and by 
June 2019 was showing as 2  meaning there had been at least two missed 
payments. Although, it appears by July 2019, Mr B had brought the account up to 
date. 
Having considered this information, which MoneyBoat has acknowledged, I do think this 
shows that Mr B was having immediate and current financial difficulties to the extent that he 
was in arrears with three active accounts  of which two of the three had seen a worsening 
repayment status in the months leading up to the loan being advanced. And Mr B had also 
recently had a credit card in arrears. 
MoneyBoat knew this and so while its checks did show the loan to be affordable it also had 
to consider whether the loan would also be sustainable. The fact that it knew that 
Mr B was in arrears with other loan accounts and these arrears were recent ought to have 
led it conclude that further lending wasnt sustainable. And therefore, it ought to not have 
granted the loan because Mr B was already showing signs of having trouble repaying his 
current commitments.  
I am therefore upholding Mr Bs complaint about this loan. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent to Mr B, as Im satisfied it ought not to have. Clearly 
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how he would (or ought 
to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to 
now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can 
fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would have been 
able to lend to Mr B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
MoneyBoat shouldnt have given Mr B his loan. 
A. MoneyBoat should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B towards 
interest, fees and charges on the loan.
B. MoneyBoat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr B which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr B originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. MoneyBoat should pay Mr B the total of A plus B. 
D. MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in 
relation to the loan. 
 *HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
should give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should put things right for 
Mr B as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman