DRN-1984829
The complaint
The estate of Mr S, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complains that 
National Westminster Bank Plc gave the late Mr S unsuitable investment advice.  
What happened
In 2008 Mr S was advised to invest £8,000 in a Guaranteed Capital Bond III (GCB). The 
GCB had a term of 3.5 years and offered a guarantee of the return of the original investment 
(if it was held for the full term) with the potential of a 21% gain based on the performance of 
the FTSE 100 Index.
At the time of the sale it was recorded that Mr S was 60 years old and retired. He was in 
receipt of pension income of £500 and state benefits income of £137 per month. He had a 
monthly disposable income of around £263. Hed recently received a lump sum from his 
pension and held £46,000 in deposit accounts, including £26,000 in a Cash ISA. His attitude 
to risk (ATR) was assessed as 2 on a scale of 1-5 with 1 being the most risk averse.
The CMC complained to NatWest in 2019 but it wasnt upheld. They then brought the 
complaint to this service and said, in summary:
The GCB was too complex for Mr S who was a first-time investor.
Mr S circumstances meant that the advice given was unsuitable.
Mr S shouldve been given information about the different comparisons between a 
product which offered the risk of no return and one which guaranteed a return.
If Mr S circumstances and ATR had been adequately assessed he wouldnt have 
agreed to gamble with the GCB.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt uphold it. She said, in 
summary:
The risks of the GCB were discussed and even though Mr S was an inexperienced 
investor, it was explained to him in a way that he could understand. 
Mr S didnt disclose any health issues during his meetings with the adviser and had 
said he expected no change to his income or circumstances. So she was satisfied 
that Mr S was in a position to make an informed decision despite his health issues.
Mr S already had a cash ISA earning 5.1% tax free and two other deposit accounts 
which would have likely been earning somewhere around the prevailing interest rates 
at the time. Therefore, this would suggest that Mr S wouldnt be averse to taking a 
little bit of risk with a small proportion of his overall cash holdings to try and earn a bit 
more. The recommendation of the GCB didnt seem unsuitable in the circumstances 
to try and achieve this goal.
The documentation provide to Mr S was clear that the minimum maturity value was 
100% of the amount invested at the end of the fixed term. And any capital growth 
was dependent on the performance of the FTSE 100 Index with the maximum 
maturity value being 121% of the amount invested. 
She believed Mr S understood there was a risk of no return. But he was prepared to 
take the risk in the hope of achieving a higher return.
The suitability letter indicated that a meaningful discussion took place about Mr S 
circumstances and objectives. She wasnt persuaded, on balance, that the 
investment was unsuitable for Mr S taking into account his circumstances and his 
objectives.
The CMC didnt agree with her findings and said, in summary:
The GCB had a maximum return of 5.6% pa however the BOE base rate was at 
5.25% and NatWest themselves were offering a 2-year FRB at 5.7%. It was therefore 
impossible that it could pay a bit more even if it made the maximum return, even if 
Mr S was willing to take some risk (which they disagreed with) there would still had 
been absolutely no possible way he could benefit from doing so making this an 
investment choice he could only lose out from.
Based on the illustrations if the markets performed at levels considered 
reasonable/likely by the FCA this product would have significantly underperformed 
returns available in deposit accounts. 
Mr S was a novice investor in poor health and should not have been advised to take 
the risk of a nil return at that point in his life.
The investigator wasnt minded to change her opinion so the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator and for much the same reasons. While I 
appreciate the points the CMC has raised, Im not persuaded that the recommendation to 
invest in the GCB was unsuitable.
The main risks with this type of investment is the risk of no return and if theres a realistic 
prospect of outperforming another guaranteed product such as a fixed rate bond. Ive 
considered if Mr S was in a position to take this risk and if he was made aware of 
alternatives. 
Having reviewed the documentation from the time of the sale, its my opinion that Mr S was 
willing to take some risk with this investment in order to make a gain. From what Ive seen, 
prior to receiving advice from NatWest, he had all his capital in deposit accounts. So it 
doesnt seem unreasonable that he wanted to try a different product in order to possibly 
achieve a greater return with some of his capital.
He had a reasonable disposable income each month, so I think he was in a position where 
he could take the risk of no return on some of his capital. He was advised to invest £8,000 or 
around 17% of his available funds which doesnt seem an unreasonable amount to expose 
to this risk. 
The information given to Mr S at the time explained how the GCB operated, specifically that 
any possible returns depended on the performance of the FTSE and highlighted the 
possibility that he may only receive his capital back at the end of the term. Taking everything 
into account, Im satisfied that he was made aware of the general risks involved.Mr S held a Cash ISA which hed taken out in 2000 with a balance of around £26,000 which 
hed fully funded that year. He also held two other deposit accounts which appear to have 
been paying a rate of interest in line with market conditions at the time. So I dont think its 
unreasonable to suggest that he was aware of the return he could receive from deposit 
based products.
I note what the CMC has said about the rate NatWest were offering on their two year fixed 
rate bond. And while there isnt any mention of fixed rate bonds being specifically discussed, 
Im not persuaded that Mr S would have more likely than not invested in a fixed rate bond 
given his existing holdings. I dont think it was unreasonable that he might have wanted a 
product with a capital guarantee that gave him an element of exposure to the stock market.
I also appreciate what the CMC has said about Mr S being in poor health at the time. But I 
must balance this with the fact find document from the time specifically saying that he was in 
good health. So I disagree with their point that he shouldnt have been advised to take the 
risk of a nil return.
So, taking everything into account, Im unable to fairly say that NatWest gave Mr S 
unsuitable investment advice.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman