DRN-2977420
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1992. Mr and Mrs G paid for the PPI 
with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr G, in case he was 
off work sick or lost his job.
I sent Mr and Mrs G and Halifax a provisional decision on 14 July 2021, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I have not found this policy to have been mis-sold  Ill 
explain why.
This sale was nearly three decades ago, and the accounts involved have long since closed. 
So I think its understandable that neither side still have the original documents from the 
sale. Indeed, under data protection rules, Halifax was required to dispose of Mr and Mrs Gs 
data rather than hold onto it for too long. Meanwhile, Mr and Mrs G dont remember buying 
PPI, and I also think thats understandable given that buying insurance is not often 
memorable and this sale was particularly long ago. Ive thought carefully about whats most 
likely to have happened based on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for Halifax to have misled Mr and Mrs G into having 
PPI. And I have no evidence which shows thats what Halifax did here. Nor have I seen any 
wider problems with its sales process from the time. And this particular sale was far too long 
ago for me to reasonably require Halifax to be able to produce documents from the time to 
defend itself now. So I dont have a fair basis on which to conclude that Halifax misled 
Mr and Mrs G. I think its more likely that it followed a relatively normal sales process, where 
it offered Mr and Mrs G a choice and they chose PPI at the time  though I can understand if 
Mr and Mrs G no longer remember doing so after so many years.
Its not clear whether Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs G, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Halifax if it did recommend it  so to be as fair to Mr and Mrs G 
as possible, Ill assume it did. That means Halifax had to check the policy was right for them 
 and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was.
For example, it looks like Mr G was the majority earner and was eligible for the cover. As far 
as Mr and Mrs G have told us, Mr G didnt have any pre-existing health conditions at the 
time, and was a full-time employee rather than e.g. self-employed, so he wouldnt have been 
affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. The PPI would have paid out 
on top of Mr Gs work benefits and offered him more comprehensive cover. And while 
I understand Mr G felt stable in his job, accidents, illnesses, and redundancies can and do 
happen  even in situations which feel secure. Its worth bearing in mind that if Mr and Mrs G 
fell behind on their mortgage, they couldve lost their home. So it seems like the PPI could 
have been useful for them in protecting their home and providing some peace of mind. 
Its possible that the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs G about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above, it seems that Mr G wasnt affected by any of 
the main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for Mr and Mrs G in 
case something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and 
Mrs G could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better 
information was likely to have put them off taking out the cover.
Lastly, I understand that Mr and Mrs G may also be unhappy with other insurance policies 
they had around the same time, as well as possibly the mortgage itself. In this decision, Im 
only considering the sale of the PPI policy. But Mr and Mrs G may be able to make a 
separate complaint about those other products if theyre not out of time to do so.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
11 August 2021. Halifax didnt add anything further. Mr and Mrs G made some further 
points, which Ill talk about below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs G felt that because neither side could provide proof that theyd asked for the 
policy, we should assume that they didnt  and I understand their point of view. If this sale 
were not so very long ago, and if it had happened recently enough that I could reasonably 
expect or require Halifax to still have evidence from the sale, then I may indeed have held it 
against Halifax if it couldnt then provide such evidence. 
However, this sale was far too long ago for that. Not only was Halifax not required to have 
kept the evidence for nearly this long, it was in fact required to dispose of such data. So it 
would not be reasonable for me to hold such a lack of evidence against Halifax in this 
context. And Ive not seen any wider problems with the sales of these particular Halifax 
policies from around the time. So I have no substantial evidence to show that Halifax did 
anything wrong here. And so I dont have a fair basis on which to conclude that it did. I think 
its more likely that it followed a relatively normal sales process and offered a choice. 
Mr and Mrs G pointed out that weve found many other PPI policies to have been mis-sold, 
and again I do understand where theyre coming from. But different policies worked in 
different ways, were suitable in different circumstances, were sold using different methods at 
different times, and so on. So while some policies were mis-sold, others were not. Thats 
why we look at each case on its individual merits. And I have not found that this particular 
policy was likely to have been mis-sold.Mr and Mrs G say they took out the PPI in 1995, rather than 1992. I am aware of the 
mortgage statements theyve referenced. Its not clear why Repayments insurance only 
appeared on their statements from 1995  for example, it may be that if the PPI was paid as 
a separate cost (and was not part and parcel of the mortgage) then it was not included in the 
mortgage statements at first. But the electronic records that remain do say the PPI was 
taken out in 1992. Even if I accept it was taken out in 1995, Im afraid that doesnt change 
the assessment  that was still too long ago for me to require Halifax to still have the original 
documents from the sale. Ive also not seen any wider problems with these Halifax policies 
from around that time, either. And if Mr and Mrs G did take out the PPI several years after 
their mortgage, it means that by then they would have known they didnt have to buy PPI to 
get approved for their mortgage.
Mr G says he didnt need PPI, as he had exceptionally good sick pay. The sick pay he told 
us about in response to the provisional decision is significantly more than what he told us it 
was before. Its also exceptionally generous, and does not fit with his age, work situation, or 
what weve seen of his employers usual entitlements around the time. So I think its most 
likely that what Mr G originally told us is correct, rather than his new testimony. And so 
I think its most likely that the PPI wouldve offered useful additional cover, helping to protect 
Mr and Mrs Gs home and provide some peace of mind.
Lastly, I understand Mr and Mrs G remain dissatisfied with other insurance products, as well 
as possibly the mortgage. I also understand they feel that this is evidence that Halifax mis-
sold the PPI, too. But as I said before, I cannot consider those other products here. I also 
have nothing to show that they were actually mis-sold, as Mr and Mrs G suggest. And in any 
case, that wouldnt necessarily mean the PPI was mis-sold too, since the PPI was a different 
product which had a different purpose and worked in a different way to those other products.
So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I have 
not found this particular PPI policy to have been mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman