DRN-1990128
The complaint
Mr L complains about the interest and charges applied to his account by Barclays Bank Plc 
t/a Barclaycard (Barclays) and its failure to take account of his circumstances after he 
informed it of his health problems.
What happened
Mr L had two accounts with Barclays, but there is no issue regarding the second account. Mr 
L missed a monthly payment for the account thats the subject of this complaint in April 2017. 
He telephoned Barclays to discuss this after which he made good the missing payment and 
then continued to make the monthly payments for the next few months. But he then missed 
the payments for the three months October 2017 to December 2017.
Mr L has provided a copy of a letter to Barclays dated 28 October 2017 which is marked for 
the attention of Barclaycard Customer Services in which he set out in detail the health 
problems that he had been suffering from since 2013 and the issues that had had on his 
finances. In that letter he asked for Barclays to freeze interest and asked that he not be 
referred to a credit reference agency. 
Barclays has no record of this letter and when Mr L made no payment in November 2017 it 
sent him a letter in accordance with its normal process and did the same when the payment 
for December 2017 was missed. But it stopped charging interest and charges after January 
2018. However, as the account was still in default a default notice was sent to Mr L in March 
2018 and, as the account remained in default, this was then registered.
Barclays then undertook a review of how it had dealt with customers who had fallen behind 
on their payments - with Mr L being one of those customers. It identified it hadnt treated 
some of those customers fairly over several years but chose to write to all customers about 
this. 
In a letter dated 22 January 2019 to Mr L Barclays said that it was refunding the interest and 
charges for the period October to December 2017 amounting to £1,443, which had been 
paid back into his account. It also offered £75 for any distress and inconvenience caused. It 
asked Mr L to respond to it with details of the bank account he wanted this paid into. The 
letter explained payment would be made within 30 days of receipt of the response form.
Mr L returned the response form at the end of January 2019, but he then contacted Barclays 
because he was unhappy with the outcome and also wanted the payment quickly due to his 
financial circumstances. It responded to this by a final response letter dated 22 February 
2019. It said that it didnt uphold the complaint and explained that the offer that had been 
made originally wasnt because the interest and charges were excessive. 
But it did offer a further £75 because payment hadnt been expedited when he had contacted 
it explaining how important it was that he received the payment. It appears from what I have 
seen that this letter was sent to the wrong address because this is referred to in the further 
FRL sent to him dated 28 May 2019. 
Barclays upheld the complaint. It said that it understood that it had caused stress in the past 
that had made Mr Ls health worse. It said it had written to customers in January 2019 
regardless of whether it was at fault and had offered to refund some interest and fees as well 
as £75. It explained that the FRL of February 2019 was sent to the wrong address because 
although Mr L had updated his address with the bank, he hadnt done so with it and that it 
was a separate legal entity. It confirmed that the £75 had been refunded to his account.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. She said that the refund of charges it had 
offered of £1,443 was fair and reasonable, as this refunded the interest and default fees 
applied to the account in the period it shouldve provided a better service. She thought this 
put Mr L in the position he wouldve been in if it had responded as it shouldve done when 
made aware of his difficulties.
But the investigator didnt think that the amount Barclays had offered for the distress and 
inconvenience caused was enough as she didnt think this took account of the number of 
times that he had contacted Barclays and the stress this had caused him. 
Mr L said he was disappointed that the investigator thought that £250 was enough 
compensation for the actual physical and mental harm the stress Barclays caused him and 
his partner and thought an award of at least £500 was reasonable. Barclays agreed with the 
opinion of the investigator. The investigator responded to Mr L and said she was not going to 
award anything further as she thought £250 fairly reflected the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Mr L provided a further response in which he said that the investigators review didnt take 
seriously the impact of Barclays behaviour and attitude towards him when he was clearly 
seriously ill. He said that the critical point was when he was in hospital for four weeks in April 
2017. He said when he contacted Barclays and explained he had been using his pension 
fund to survive on and was having difficulty paying bills he was told that if he didnt pay, he 
would be referred to a debt collecting agency and debt recovery company. 
Mr L said that there was no empathy and that when he went back to Barclays after speaking 
to Citizens Advice to explain his circumstances again, he just got more warnings and threats 
which just made him ill and stressed. He said that he thought £1,000 was a reasonable 
amount for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what Mr L has said I think that it is clear he has had to cope with some very difficult 
circumstances over the years as a result of his health deteriorating, which in turn impacted 
on his ability to work and ultimately pay his outgoings. I sympathise with him, but I need to 
come to a decision which I think is fair and reasonable to both parties based on the evidence 
available. Where there is not agreement between the parties my findings are based on a 
balance of probabilities  what is more likely than not.
I think it is important to note that the letter of January 2019 resulting from Barclays internal 
review was not the result of an investigation specifically into Mr Ls account which found that 
it had done something wrong. From what it has said it found it got things wrong with some 
customers but took the decision to contact all customers that fell into collections regardless 
of whether a poor service had been provided.Mr L has referred to the telephone discussion he had with Barclays in April 2017 which he 
has said is the critical point. I do not have the benefit of a telephone recording, so I must 
make findings based on what evidence is available. Mr L says that he explained his medical 
history to Barclays and that he was in hospital. The system notes that Barclays has provided 
confirm it was told he was in hospital. I think it is also more likely than not that he will have 
made some mention of his history in explaining why he was in hospital.
Mr L has also indicated he was pressured into making subsequent payments in the 
telephone call. He has referred to being told he would be referred to a debt collection agency 
and debt recovery company if he didnt pay. But whilst I accept there may have been some 
discussion about the consequences of non-payment, Im not persuaded it is more likely than 
not he was pressured into making further payments. 
The system notes of the call record that although he was in hospital his finances werent 
affected. In his letter of 28 October 2017, as well as setting out his longstanding health 
issues, Mr L referred to having started a new business in 2016 and presenting a business 
plan to Barclays Bank and opening a business account with it. He also said that orders had 
already been pledged. He said that the business shouldve been generating income at the 
time of his letter, but his health hadnt recovered. 
Given what Mr L has said I think it is more likely than not that as of April 2017 he had reason 
to think he would be able to maintain payments through money he expected to generate 
form his business and that system notes accurately reflect what he told Barclays  in other 
words I think he indicated his finances werent affected at the time. I think it is more likely 
than not  the further ongoing issues with his health which meant his financial position 
became more difficult.
I also think it is of note that he didnt say anything about being pressured to pay in his letter 
of 28 October 2017. His letter was detailed and made reference to there being no follow-up 
to the call and his unhappiness with this. If at the time he thought that he had been 
pressured I think he wouldve referred to this in that letter. 
Im not satisfied there was any need for Barclays to follow up on the telephone call given the 
indication his finances werent affected. In short, Im not satisfied that Barclays did anything 
wrong in April 2017 or immediately afterwards in the way it dealt with Mr L.
The monthly payments continued to be made up until October 2017. The direct debit for 
October wasnt paid. Mr Ls letter of 28 October 2017 was sent after the default in payment. 
This was not addressed to the correct address but nevertheless it was marked for the 
attention of Barclaycard Customer Services and I think Mr L couldve expected this wouldve 
been forwarded to it even if he had used the wrong address. 
In that letter he asked that interest be suspended and for there to be no reference to credit 
reference agencies. He also asked for £3,000 for the distress caused by Barclays not 
following up the call in April 2017 and its lack of empathy - as I have already said, Im not 
satisfied it did anything wrong in April 2017 or subsequently.
The monthly direct debit payment for November 2017 also wasnt made and Mr Ls direct 
debit was then cancelled on 18 November 2017. Barclays wrote to Mr L on 26 November 
2017 warning him that missed payments were reported to credit reference agencies and this 
would affect his credit rating. But the letter also states:
However, there are a number of ways we can help so please let us know if youre ever 
struggling to make a payment.The letter provided a telephone number for him to call if he was struggling and also provided 
the contact details for independent organisations that could help. A similar letter was sent in 
December 2017. Barclays has a responsibility to contact customers when there is non-
payment and warn them of the consequences. The letters also provided contact details for 
him to discuss any issues either with it or an independent organisation. The letters were 
appropriate in the circumstances given Barclays hadnt had sight of Mr Ls letter.
Barclays stopped applying interest and charges to the account as from January 2018. In 
March 2018 it wrote to Mr L and thanked him for letting it know about his personal 
circumstances and that it understood why he had difficulty making payments. 
It explained that it still needed to send him the enclosed default notice in accordance with the 
requirements of the Consumer Credit Act and that whilst it didnt expect him to make a 
payment, he needed to know that once the default was registered it would appear on his 
credit file. 
There were subsequent letters in April 2018 to inform him the default notice had been 
registered and a letter in October 2018 to catch up with him which was suitably worded so as 
not to cause concern - and a similar letter in May 2019. I can see nothing wrong with the 
communication with Mr L once Barclays stopped applying interest and charges in January 
2018. As it has pointed out, it has to take certain steps and provide certain information to him 
in relation to his account.
I think Barclays perhaps couldve done more in the latter part of 2017 to find out what was 
going on. I acknowledge that some attempt was made to contact Mr L. But Im mindful that it 
was made aware he was hospitalised in April 2017 and I think he will have provided some 
additional information about what had happened to him over the past few years when he 
spoke to it. 
The two missed payments for October and November followed by the cancellation of the 
direct debit in November 2017 shouldve perhaps indicated the urgency of the situation. It is 
also arguable that Mr Ls letter of 28 October 2017 shouldve been forward to Barclays and if 
it had been it may well have stopped applying interest and charges for November and 
December 2017. 
But Im also mindful that at this point Mr Ls financial position was already very difficult and I 
think it is more likely than not that a large part of the stress he was under was because of his 
overall position rather than as a result of anything Barclays did wrong.  
So, whilst I think Barclays caused some additional stress, I think the investigators 
suggestion of a further £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused, on top of what 
Barclays has already offered, is reasonable. I note a total figure of £250 has been referred to 
but Barclays has offered a total of £200 to date so the total amount payable is £300.
So, whilst I think Barclays caused some additional stress, I think the investigators 
suggestion of a further £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused, on top of what 
Barclays has already offered, is reasonable. I note a total figure of £250 has been referred to 
but Barclays has offered a total of £200 to date so the total amount payable is £300.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained. Barclays Bank Plc must pay £100 
for the distress and inconvenience caused in addition to the £200 in total it has already 
offered to Mr L.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman