DRN-3425644
The complaint
Miss P has complained that Debt Managers (Services) Limited continued to chase her for a 
fraudulent debt, even when they agreed it wasnt hers.
What happened
This complaint is about a consumer credit account that was taken out in 2015 and sold to 
Debt Managers in 2017.
In late 2017, Miss P was turned down for a mortgage. She found out that a number of 
accounts had been taken out fraudulently in her name, such as this one.
In early 2018, Miss P reported this account as fraudulent to Debt Managers. She provided 
documentary evidence of her address history, showing she hadnt been present at the 
address the account was registered to or the address the goods went to.
Debt Managers looked at this and said they also thought the account was fraudulent. They 
suggested Miss P report things to Action Fraud. When Miss P didnt, they refused to help 
further. They continued to pursue Miss P for the account. This went on for several years, 
with Debt Managers contesting data disputes raised by the credit reference agencies in 
order to keep the account showing in Miss Ps name.
In October 2021, Miss P provided an Action Fraud reference, and in November 2021 Debt 
Managers took the account out of her name. 
Miss P complained. She detailed all the stress Debt Managers had put her through, such as 
threatening to come to her home when she was a woman living alone. 
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. They 
recommended Debt Managers pay Miss P £350 compensation and make sure her credit file 
was cleared of this debt.
Debt Managers didnt agree. They said they had no reason to think that Miss P might not be 
the genuine borrower. They argued that they followed their process, and that Miss P was at 
fault for not giving them an Action Fraud reference earlier.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under CONC, Debt Managers were not allowed to pursue Miss P if they reasonably knew or 
believed she might not be the genuine borrower. And they were not allowed to ignore her 
dispute or to continue to make demands for payment without clear evidence or justification 
as to why her claim was not valid.
In early 2018, Debt Managers received documentary evidence that Miss P had not lived at 
the address the account was registered to or the address the goods were received at. The 
other contact details on the account were also not genuine and did not relate to Miss P. A 
number of other fraudulent accounts had been taken out in her name. And Debt Managers 
do not appear to have had any substantial basis on which to think this was Miss Ps account. 
Indeed, in 2018 Debt Managers admitted themselves that we believe that this account is not 
linked to [Miss P].
It follows that Debt Managers were wrong to continue pursuing Miss P from early 2018 
onwards, and they were wrong to ignore her dispute.
Debt Managers have pointed out that Miss P could have resolved things earlier by reporting 
things to Action Fraud. I do accept that she could have mitigated her losses by making a 
report, and I have taken this into account. However, there was no obligation on Miss P to 
contact Action Fraud. And Debt Managers were not entitled to pressure her into doing so. 
Whereas there was an obligation on Debt Managers to investigate the fraud and to refrain 
from pursuing someone they thought might not be the real borrower.
Debt Managers already had good reason to believe this account was fraudulent, and 
admitted as much themselves. So I dont see that an Action Fraud reference number served 
any particularly useful purpose in investigating the fraud. The number had no substantial 
bearing on Debt Managers ability to find out if the debt was Miss Ps or not, and it wasnt 
needed as proof here  again, Debt Managers already admitted they believed this wasnt 
Miss Ps account in 2018. It seems that Debt Managers were just following the process for 
the process sake. And it was wrong of them to prioritise their process over treating a 
customer fairly. A lack of a reference number was not something Debt Managers could rely 
on to refuse to help Miss P, or to chase her for a debt they didnt actually think was hers.
Debt Managers have made arguments about crime reporting procedures, but I dont find 
those arguments to be relevant. Reporting the crime is separate to investigating whether 
they are chasing the right person for the debt or not. They did not have any right to pursue 
someone they reasonably believed to be the victim of fraud just because they didnt have a 
reference number.
It is seriously concerning that Debt Managers sent Miss P threats, continued reporting a 
default against her, and went as far as opposing attempts by credit reference agencies to 
correct her file, all over a period of years, when all the while theyd had solid evidence since 
2018 that it wasnt Miss Ps account, and even believed themselves that she was the victim 
of fraud. This was a severe series of failures on Debt Managers part. Debt Managers need 
to put right what they got wrong.In terms of compensation, I can certainly understand why Miss P would like her rejected 
mortgage application to be taken into account. But Im afraid I dont think Debt Managers 
were responsible for that. Debt Managers didnt do the original lending  that was done by 
the lender. And, of course, it was the fraudster who was primarily responsible for the crime 
taking place. Further, I understand there were a number of fraudulent accounts, not just this 
one. And the mortgage application in question was done before Debt Managers were first 
told about the fraud.
I do find that Debt Managers were responsible for the considerable distress, upset, and 
worry that Miss P was put through by them refusing to deal with the fraud. This went on over 
an unacceptably long period. And while I accept that Miss P could have also reported things 
to Action Fraud earlier, she was not required to  the delay primarily stemmed from Debt 
Managers getting things very wrong. 
We have guidelines about what levels of compensation to award. Like our investigator, I find 
that £350 compensation would be fair to put things right.
Putting things right
I direct Debt Managers (Services) Limited to:
Pay Miss P £350 compensation; and-
Make sure that no trace of this fraudulent account remains on Miss Ps credit file, 
working with the original lender where necessary.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ps complaint, and direct Debt Managers 
(Services) Limited to put things right in the way I set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman