DRN-3714143
The complaint
Mr A complains that MOYES Financial Planning Limited gave him unsuitable advice to 
transfer his pension in 2012. 
What happened
Mr As complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He sent his assessment of the 
complaint to both parties in August 2022. The background and circumstances to the 
complaint were set out in that assessment. However to recap, Mr A originally held two 
personal pensions with two different pension providers. In 2012 one had a transfer value of 
£12,892, and the other £7,044.
Mr A was interested in alternative investments to bolster his pension savings, and he 
explored an investment in an overseas property development - Harmony Bay, in Turkey.
Mr A met with MOYES in April 2012 and discussed his financial needs and requirements. It 
completed a fact-find which established that Mr A:
Was in his early 40s, married and had two financial dependents
Was self-employed
Was considering buying a commercial property abroad, and he wanted to establish 
what UK pension providers would allow him to potentially fund the purchase and 
allow the commercial property to be held within a pension
Was recorded as having an attitude to risk (ATR) as Moderately Adventurous to 
Adventurous.
MOYES sent its recommendations to Mr A by letter dated 5 November 2012. In the letter:
MOYES recommended that Mr A transfer his two-personal pensions to a Self -
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). The transferred funds would be held in cash 
MOYES said it wasnt liable for the ongoing commercial property purchase. It said 
that was between Mr A and the firm he intended to buy the property from
MOYES said it would receive 4% of the transfer value (£797) for its advice. 
Mr A agreed to the transfer and subsequently invested £14,250 into Harmony Bay.
In September 2021 Mr A, through a representative, complained about the advice hed been 
given. The complaint was, in summary, that MOYES advice to transfer was unsuitable. 
MOYES responded to say that it didnt think its advice had been unsuitable. It said Mr A had 
a recorded ATR of moderate to adventurous. So he wasnt risk averse. Mr A had 
approached MOYES for advice on the best way to hold the investment as he had already 
made the decision to buy it. It said MOYES advice was limited accordingly, and it hadnt 
promoted or provided advice on the suitability of the Harmony Bay investment.
Mr A subsequently referred his complaint to us. Having considered all the circumstances of 
the complaint, our investigator recommended that it should be upheld. 
The investigator said he accepted that MOYES hadnt promoted or recommend the Harmony 
Bay investment to Mr A.  
The investigator said the objectives recorded in MOYES letter dated 5 November 2012 said:
You currently have your main pension provisions with [the two pension providers], and you 
are looking to buy a commercial property abroad. You enquired as to whether you were able 
to use your pensions to buy a commercial property abroad. You had heard about a (SIPP) 
and you also asked if any SIPPs in the UK would accept this type of transaction.
Mr A had confirmed this to the investigator, and said that the SIPP provider had handled all 
the paperwork in the purchase of Harmony Bay.
The investigator also accepted that Mr As ATR had been recorded as moderately 
adventurous to adventurous. He said this was noted in the fact find which was signed and 
dated by Mr A as correct on 2 April 2012.
The investigator said he accepted Mr A approached MOYES about how to finance his 
intended investment into overseas property potentially though his pension. And that MOYES 
had sourced a suitable SIPP. But the investigator said MOYES had also helped facilitate Mr 
As purchase of Harmony Bay. Without a SIPP in place, the investigator didnt think Mr A 
wouldve been able to use his pension savings to make the purchase. MOYES advice had 
facilitated the purchase of Harmony Bay.
The investigator said his role was to determine if the advice given in 2012 was suitable by 
taking into account relevant law, regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what he considered was good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator said MOYES role wasnt simply to facilitate something that Mr A mightve 
thought he wanted or needed. It was to objectively consider all of the relevant information 
about his circumstances, goals and the options available, and then provide him with robust, 
suitable financial advice, which was in his best interests.
The investigator referred to the regulators industry alert from 2014 which said:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall 
advice is not suitable.
The investigator said although the advice was given in 2012, and so was given before these 
alerts, the regulator was highlighting firms obligations and reinforcing understanding of the 
rules already in place. He said a financial adviser had to consider the wider picture when 
advising on pension products.
The investigator said the fact find completed showed that Mr A didnt have any significant 
savings to make the purchase outside of his pension. And it looked like Mr A had substantial 
debts of £50,000, and may have been in debt management. The investigator said he didnt think it was likely that Mr A was able to fund any further pensions, and he had no other 
retirement savings or significant savings apart from his state pension. He said Mr A couldnt 
afford to lose these pensions. 
The investigator said considering the suitability of the advice in this context, he wasnt 
persuaded it was suitable. He didnt think a retail client like Mr A shouldve been 
recommended or encouraged to invest the entirety of their personal pension savings into 
one unregulated investment. He said there were multiple significant risk factors associated 
with it, including a lack of regulation, longevity, potential insolvency, liquidity issues and other 
factors which could prevent Mr A from accessing his funds.
The investigator said Mr A did have a high recorded ATR. However he said the regulators 
good and poor practice report of 2010 sighted an example of good practice which was to 
restrict investments into unregulated investments to between 3% and 5% of a portfolio with 
ongoing monitoring. However Mr A had invested 100% of his personal pension savings into 
it.
The investigator also noted that the new SIPP when including on-going advice charge was 
more expensive overall at 2.18%, compared to the previous 1% charge.
The investigator said he thought MOYES was required to consider the wider financial 
implications to Mr As personal circumstances and his pension planning. He said had this 
been fully considered, he thought the correct advice wouldve been for Mr A to stay invested 
as he was and to not invest all his pension savings into a Turkish holiday resort. Taking all 
this into account, the investigator thought that the complaint should be upheld.
MOYES didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. It said, in summary, that MOYES 
gave detailed warnings to the risks involved and noted the risks involved in the SIPP. It 
confirmed with Mr A that he accepted the risks involved in the transfer. It didnt believe it was 
in breach of the COBS (Conduct of Business Sourcebook) requirements. 
It said Mr A had selected Harmony Bay prior to meeting MOYES and also knew about the 
SIPP provider. Hed decided on the investment into Harmony Bay prior to approaching 
MOYES with relation to the transfer. It said it wasnt paid any fees in relation to the 
investment. 
MOYES said it was entitled to rely on Mr As property experience and background. Mr A was 
aware of the risks of investing in property and the risks were made clear to him in the 
documentation he was provided with. It didnt agree Mr A didnt understand the nature of the 
Harmony Bay investment and expected MOYES to advise on it. MOYES was clear it was 
only offering advice on the transfer.
MOYES said it wasnt fair in these circumstances to expect that in order to advise on the 
transfer MOYES should have had an opinion on the investment. It said there was no reason 
to treat Mr A as an insistent client as it wasnt providing advice on the investment, and it had 
made that clear. It said the cause of the loss was the failed business developer in Turkey 
and nothing to do with MOYES.
The investigator responded to say that he agreed Mr A had been given warnings about the 
risks and knew about the investment and SIPP provider prior to MOYES involvement. But 
that didnt mean that the advice was suitable or negated the requirement for the firm to give 
best advice. He said he wasnt persuaded that Mr A was a property expert; he was self- 
employed in an unrelated area of work, on a relatively low income, and with little or no 
investment experience.The investigator explained the regulators rules did require financial advisers to consider the 
wider picture and they shouldnt just facilitate consumers intentions without consideration of 
the investment proposition. 
MOYES said it thought if the property developer in Turkey had been more diligent in its 
business management and had delivered an outcome, then Mr A would have been happy. 
So there wouldnt have been a complaint if the development had been a success, and Mr A 
would have considered the advice suitable. It said its advice wouldnt have been questioned 
if the investment had worked out and it said high risk is high risk.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and largely for the 
same reasons.
As the investigator explained, the regulator has made it clear on a number of occasions that 
where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer 
(technically known as a switch here, but for ease I will refer to transfer) from a current 
pension arrangement, then the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the 
advice given. 
I think this is consistent with the nature of the transaction when considered in the whole. The 
starting position is that Mr A had two personal pensions. In order to transfer to the SIPP 
recommended by MOYES, Mr A had to sell the rights/investments in his personal pensions 
to fund the transfer to the SIPP and buy new rights/investments in it. So Moyes needed to 
weigh up the benefits of the new SIPP and underlying investment in it, against the benefits 
provided by the personal pensions in order to ensure that the advice to transfer was suitable. 
The setting up of the SIPP didnt stand alone, and considering the suitability of the 
underlying investment was all part and parcel of the suitability of the advice to transfer. 
MOYES was bound by the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules set out in the 
regulators Handbook. COBS 9.2.2 effectively required MOYES to have a reasonable basis 
for believing the transaction was suitable for Mr A, including that he was able financially to 
bear any related investment risks consistent with his objectives, and that he had the 
necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in the 
transaction. 
As explained by the investigator, Mr A had no other retirement provision or significant 
savings. He had a modest income, had significant debts, and so would have had difficulty 
building up further pension provision. Like the investigator, I dont think Mr A could afford to 
lose these pensions. He wasnt able to bear the financial risks presented by investing in 
Harmony Bay.
Mr A said he had no prior financial experience. Ive seen no evidence to suggest he had any 
particular knowledge or experience of investments. In my view he would have relied on the 
advice provided by MOYES. As Ive explained above, MOYES was required to consider the 
underlying investment. I dont think its in dispute that the investment in Harmony Bay was 
high risk. And in my view MOYES should have identified that the transfer presented too 
great a risk given Mr As particular circumstances.
MOYES was acting in professional capacity, and I think Mr A would reasonably have relied 
on its advice. I think if MOYES had advised Mr A to remain in his existing schemes and explained the reasons for doing so, I think Mr A would more likely than not have accepted 
that advice. Mr A would have known a professional firms view was that the transaction 
wasnt suitable  it wasnt a good idea, and there was a real risk he could lose all his 
pension. 
Moyes had its own obligations as Ive described above when advising on the transfer to the 
SIPP. The transfer of Mr As pensions to the SIPP and the underlying investment were 
mutually dependent  the one couldnt have taken place without the other. The investment 
into Harmony Bay was dependent on Mr A funding it through the transfer to the SIPP. 
Taking all this into account, Im not persuaded that MOYES provided suitable advice to Mr A 
to transfer. And Im satisfied that Mr A would more likely than not have remained with his 
existing pension arrangements if MOYES had explained the position in full and provided 
suitable advice.
For the reasons outlined above and by the investigator, Im satisfied Mr A wouldnt have 
been in the SIPP at all and wouldnt have invested in Harmony Bay if MOYES had met its 
regulatory obligations.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr A as close as
possible to the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr A would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely how he would 
have invested if hed stayed in his original arrangements. Im satisfied that what I have set 
out below is fair and reasonable given Mr A's circumstances and objectives when he 
invested.
Although, Mr As ATR was recorded as moderately adventurous to adventurous, I
think if hed been advised to not transfer he wouldve stayed in his original pension
plans. Mr As representative has said he was adverse to high levels of risk, and on this 
basis, the investigator recommended using the benchmark set out in the table below for 
calculating redress purposes. Neither party has provided further comment. And I think its 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
What should MOYES Financial Planning Limited do?
To compensate Mr A fairly MOYES Financial Planning Limited should:
Compare the performance of Mr A's investments with that of the benchmark shown 
below.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment. If the fair value is 
greater than the actual value, there is a loss. The losses should be combined and the 
total is the amount of compensation payable.
MOYES Financial Planning Limited should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, MOYES Financial Planning Limited should pay into Mr A's pension 
plan, to increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. 
MOYES Financial Planning Limited should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. MOYES Financial Planning Limited shouldnt pay the 
compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If MOYES Financial Planning Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Mr A's 
pension plan, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay 
into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation 
should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it 
isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr A wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction 
after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr A's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr A is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr A would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr A in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If MOYES Financial Planning Limited 
consider that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, MOYES Financial Planning Limited should tell Mr A how much its taken off. Moyes 
should also give Mr A a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr A asks for one, so 
he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.Investment      Status       Benchmark from
(start date)           to
(end date)    additional
interest
First original 
pension planNo longer 
existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income 
Total Return 
IndexDate of 
investme
nt - April 
2012Date of 
decision8% simple a
year from date
of this decision  
to
date of
settlement if
settlement isnt
made within
28 days of
Moyes being
notified of
Mr As 
acceptance of
this decision
Second 
original 
pension planNo longer 
existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income 
Total Return 
IndexDate of 
investme
nt - April 
2012Date of 
decision8% simple a
year from date
of this decision  
to
date of
settlement if
settlement isnt
made within
28 days of
Moyes being
notified of
Mr As 
acceptance of
this decision
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr A wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr A's circumstances and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint. 
I order MOYES Financial Planning Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr A on the 
basis I have outlined above under Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman