DRN-3544424
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was given unsuitable investment advice, poor service and charged 
excessive fees by St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc, referred to as SJP or the 
business. 
In short, he says:
The initial advice when he set up the investment was wrong. 
The advice to withdraw £60,000 was unsuitable. 
The business failed to review the suitability of the advice. 
The advice to invest in the onshore Investment Bond (the bond) was unsuitable. It 
wasnt tax efficient because Mr B was a non-taxpayer at the time and had to pay 20% 
tax which he couldnt claim back. A stocks and shares ISA wouldve been a more 
suitable alternative. 
The fees werent made clear to him. 
The recommendations were motivated by higher fees/financial gain. 
The overall performance of the investment was less than the fees he paid. 
He had to instigate contact and his instructions werent carried out on occasions, so 
he started to doubt the level of service.  
 
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld on the 
basis that the offer by the business was broadly fair and reasonable. In summary, she said:
The recommendation to transfer Mr Bs investments (at the time with a third-party 
business) to SJP  and into an ISA and Investment bond  was suitable given his 
circumstances. It was recorded that Mr B wanted to simplify his holdings as he 
approached retirement. 
Having reviewed the confidential financial review (CFR) form and the suitability letter, 
its clear that Mr B wanted to review his existing investments. He felt he was paying a 
lot in fees and wasnt getting value for money. Having discussed SJPs approach, he 
was content to proceed on the basis that the advice would give him the potential to 
achieve a greater return. 
It was recorded that Mr B had previous experience of ISAs and Unit Trusts and was 
assessed as a medium risk investor. In other words, he wasnt a first-time investor 
and had access to a reasonable amount of cash. 
Because Mr B wanted a greater return on his investment, he was recommended to 
invest in the Managed Funds Portfolio. This wasnt unsuitable given Mr Bs attitude to 
risk and financial circumstances. 
Mr B was in paid employment with a reasonable net disposable income, even after 
his planned retirement in 2014. It was recorded that he was a basic rate taxpayer 
rather than a non-taxpayer, so was still liable to 20% tax. Despite what Mr B now 
says, an adviser can only advise on the information provided. 
The suitability letter makes clear that one of Mr Bs objective was to invest in a tax 
efficient manner for medium to long term capital growth and this was to ensure that 
he could maintain a comfortable lifestyle in future. Despite what Mr B says, his ISA 
was fully funded for the tax year. 
Mr B said that he wouldve been better off holding his funds within a General 
Investment Account (GIA) and then transferring funds each year into his ISA by 
utilising his ISA allowance via a bed and Isa transaction. He feels he wouldve been 
able to avoid any capital gains tax as his allowance wouldve covered any growth  
but its difficult to predict/guarantee that this wouldve been the case. 
In any case, the adviser suggested alternative investments such as a Unit Trust 
feeder. This wouldve allowed him to feed into his ISA each year in the way that he 
suggests wouldve been better for him. But Mr B declined this option despite it having 
a more advantageous tax position, because the returns from the bond were higher. 
The bond also offered the potential for fixed income for when he retired. So, in the 
circumstances the bond  as a medium-term investment  wasnt unsuitable. 
The documentation provided  namely the suitability letter and illustration dated 
December 2013  sets out the fees and charges. 
The cost of the initial advice, service and ongoing advice were clearly set out from 
the outset in a clear and fair manner. Mr B signed documentation to confirm hed 
seen this information. 
Mr B mightve paid less if hed invested elsewhere, but that doesnt mean that the 
recommendation was unsuitable. 
Despite what Mr B says, she cant uphold this complaint based on comparisons 
made with alternative products. Performance alone is also not something that our 
service would consider. 
Mr B says hes been charged for the cost of ongoing advice, but he doesnt recall his 
adviser providing advice, discussing his needs, objectives, and portfolio suitability. 
But the business file demonstrates that some level of service was provided. 
An email dated July 2020 shows that Mr B was invited to an Investment Market 
Summary Presentation meeting (presentation meeting). In January 2021 a 
discussion took place about a Trust, he was also sent a trust brochure. Theres also 
an email from Mr B to his adviser about a progress meeting. 
Mr B says he didnt receive advice to switch investments and thats the reason for his 
complaint. But despite what he says a fund switch took place in 2017 and 2020. Its 
unlikely any changes wouldve been made without Mr Bs authority, so its unlikely 
that switches wouldnt have been discussed throughout this time.  
If Mr B felt he had little contact from the business, there was nothing preventing him 
from approaching the business in order to have regular meetings to review his 
investments. 
Mr B says it wouldve been more tax efficient to perform a calculation to ascertain if a 
partial or full encashment of the bonds was more tax efficient, rather than no review 
and advising upon withdrawal from an ISA. But an email from him dated 23 April 
2020 suggests that a discussion took place at home with the adviser regarding the 
£60,000 withdrawal. 
Based on the contents of the email, it seems the adviser advised Mr B that he could 
withdraw 5% a year of the original bond, without tax and done retrospectively. But all 
things considered, Mr B was happy to make a withdrawal of £60,000. 
The business concedes that it cant show that an annual review took place in 2018, 
therefore it offered to refund the ongoing advice fees in the sum of £693.95 for that 
period. It also offered £250 by way of an apology for the time taken to provide a 
response which is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances.   
Mr B disagreed with the investigators conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
In summary, he said:
Hes shocked that the investigator agrees with the business. He maintains that he wouldve been better off (tax wise) if hed invested in a GIA and 
moved funds into an ISA wrapper each year, until all his funds were in an ISA. 
The investment bond carried a 6% initial commission charge, but the ISA didnt, and 
thats why he was shoehorned into the bond. 
He originally invested £105,000 in the bond, even though hed utilised his ISA 
allowance that year tax year, this wouldve been sheltered within the ISA  five to 
nine years  dependent on growth and based on his CGT exemption he wouldve 
incurred no tax. 
Hes unhappy that in November 2014 he was advised to invest £35,000 in a new 
bond. He was retired and hadnt uitilised his ISA that year but was recommended the 
bond because it attracts high initial charges. The money was also placed in a new 
bond rather than to top up the previous one. 
He was recommended a product that charged 20% income tax within the bond, when 
all funds shouldve been in an ISA free of any tax. Again, this recommendation was 
made because of high charges for SJP. 
He wouldve paid no tax on the bond. It would have to grow by more than 8% a year 
 given his CGT exemption  for him to pay any taxes. So not only did he paid higher 
initial charges, he also paid taxes when he didnt need to. 
Hes shocked that the investigator agrees with the advice/strategy to withdraw 
£60,000. 
The adviser also didnt advise him about the most tax efficient way to withdraw this 
sum. There was no meeting but an email  they didnt meet at home because of 
Covid restrictions. 
The investigator says that it was explained that he could withdraw 5% retrospectively, 
tax free  but he could also withdraw from an ISA. Hes now withdrawn £60,000 from 
an ISA, encashed a bond (as hes paying 20% tax for no reason) to then fund ISA 
contributions from the bond encashment. This all sounds ludicrously stupid. 
He doesnt accept that he received some level of ongoing advice.     
Its also deceiving to suggest that he chose the bond over the ISA, based on better 
performance  hes deemed to be a medium risk investor whether he invests in the 
bond or the ISA. 
This was deception from SJP to make him go for a high fee-paying product. He 
questions how a bond invested in the same ISA can achieve higher projected 
returns, when there is a higher initial charge and 20% tax deducted on any growth 
each year. Theres also no initial fee on a GIA and ISA, and no tax paid.    
Its clear that he was given unsuitable advice. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. She maintains for the reasons set out that this recommendation was suitable. 
In response to Mr Bs further comments, SJP made the following key observations:
In reference to the second investment bond made in August 2014, it attached the 
suitability letter, CFR, and Illustration that complemented this point of advice. 
In reference to Mr Bs points about charges, the ISA, Unit Trust (including feeder) 
and bond all carried the same initial advice charge. However, the adviser reduced the 
initial advice charge for some of the investment, but this had no bearing on the 
investment recommended. The bond doesnt have a 6% initial commission charge. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. But 
Im going to uphold this complaint on the technical basis that the business has offered  but 
not yet paid  compensation.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think a refund of the fees in the sum of 
£693.95 for failing to carry out an annual review in 2018, along with £250 compensation for 
the delayed response, is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances. In other words, I 
agree that on a limited basis SJPs service fell short. But despite what Mr B says, Im unable 
to say that the recommendation to invest was unsuitable. 
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note, and make 
clear, I very much recognise Mr Bs strength of feeling about this matter. He and the 
business have provided detailed submissions in respect of the complaint, which Ive read 
and considered carefully. However, I hope Mr B wont take the fact my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
I reiterate that the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point or question 
raised under a separate subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a 
decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt mean Im not 
considering the pertinent points. 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr B and the business, and reach what I 
think is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case, rather 
than take any sides. Im not here to decide if the business couldve done things differently. 
Im considering whether (or not) it made an error in respect of the advice it provided, which 
on balance I dont believe it has, despite there being other options. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Given Mr Bs recorded circumstances at the time, I dont think the investment advice was 
unsuitable. In other words, I dont think the advice to move his investments with a third-party 
business into an SJP ISA and an Investment Bond was unsuitable.   
Im aware that Mr B was in his mid-60s, single with no dependants. He was still employed 
with an annual salary of £35,000, and with a net disposable income of £1,200 a month. It 
was also recorded that he was planning to retire within a year, and that his net disposable 
income would reduce to £900 a month  the latter certainly wasnt a surprise and was part of 
the consideration. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that Mr B was in a good position 
to invest and take a (medium) risk with his money. I cant say that this was more risk than he 
was willing to take, or that he wasnt willing to take a risk with his money in this instance. I 
note that he wasnt without investment experience (including investing in the stock market) 
and was in a position to replace losses, even after retirement. He also had access to a 
reasonable amount of cash.  
Im aware that Mr B owned a property worth £250,000 with no liability and access to £5,000 
in an emergency fund. He also had £84,462 in collective investments, £11,619 in stocks and 
shares, as well as £104,799 in cash accounts. Despite what Mr B says, I cant say that the 
recommendation didnt meet his objective and need to simplify his holdings as he went into 
retirement, as well as provide a potential for a better return  and thats partly why he was recommended to invest in the Managed Funds Portfolio. I agree with the investigator that 
this wasnt unsuitable given Mr Bs attitude to risk and financial circumstances as set out 
above.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to safely conclude that the fees 
werent made clear to Mr B. In other words, its unlikely that they werent. Im satisfied that 
SJP is more likely than not to have supplied the document entitled Key Facts about our 
Service and Costs as set out in its suitability letter. So, if there was something Mr B didnt 
understand, he ought reasonably to have sought clarification from the business. Despite 
what Mr B says (and suspects), I cant safely say that the recommendation(s) were made 
solely so that SJP could charge him high(er) fees. 
In other words, despite what Mr B now says, on balance, I think its unlikely that the fees 
wouldnt have been made reasonably clear and/or discussed with him at any point verbally. I 
dont have the evidence to safely conclude that this wasnt the case. 
Im conscious that Mr B, based on his recent calculations, is unhappy about the amount hes 
paid in fees since the inception of his investments. But Im mindful that a financial business 
is entitled, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement, to set its own 
fees, as long as it has made these clear  which on balance I believe it has. Its not for us to 
tell a business how to run its affairs, and certainly not the level of fees that it should apply. 
Even though Mr B says he was shoehorned into investing in the bond, he was still at liberty 
whether or not to go ahead. Its simply not for us to tell a business what it can and cant 
charge. 
Whilst its difficult to know for sure what was and wasnt said at the meeting(s), based on the 
documentation provided Im unable to say that the business behaved unreasonably and/or 
that it didnt make reasonably clear the fees that would apply. 
I note SJP says:
After investigating the disclosure of fees it became clear (the adviser) waived the Initial 
Advice Fee (lAF) on your investments to ensure you had no costs to pay in leaving your 
previous provider. As this was of significant benefit to you, I have no doubts it was discussed 
with you. 
Your Illustration, dated 19 December 2013, also provided specific detail about the lAF, the 
Ongoing Advice Fee and the management charges levied by the fund managers who looked 
after your investment. Your SL explained these charges could be between 1.15% and 
2.27%pa depending on the fund manager. St. James's Place has no control over the 
external management charges.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that alternative investments were 
discussed. I note the suitability letter dated December 2013 had a section which sets out 
alternatives available to you to meet your needs. 
I also note SJP accepts that an ISA wouldve made a logical recommendation for Mr B in the 
first instance, but that this option was discarded, as hed already utilised his ISA allowance 
for that tax year. I note Mr was also recommended a Unit Trust Feeder which wouldve 
topped up his ISA each year, but Mr B preferred to fund his ISA from cash savings. This 
might explain why in due course Mr B was advised to invest another bond in 2014. 
Based on the investigators view, I note it was recorded that Mr B was a basic rate taxpayer 
rather than a non-taxpayer, so was liable to pay tax in any case. But even if this wasnt 
factually correct, I cant blame SJP as it can only go on the advice provided. In any case, Im unable to conclude that the bond was unsuitable given the tax position, as there were other 
considerations at play in terms of returns and so on. So, just because there mightve been 
more tax efficient alternatives, that of itself doesnt make the recommendation unsuitable  
tax wasnt the sole objective of investing.     
I appreciate that Mr B is overall unhappy with the performance of the investments. I note he 
says the growth of his combined portfolio since inception was around 69.22% compared to 
the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth, which was 92.76, but thats not something I can 
blame the business for. Mr B was evidently content to invest 
I also note that no guarantees were given, and that it was made clear to Mr B that the 
investments might perform lower than the illustrations. The fact that the investments havent 
performed as Mr B mightve hoped doesnt mean they were unsuitable, regardless of fees 
charged  the two issues are mutually exclusive. In any case, the investments  which are 
dependent on the financial markets  arent something that SJP could predict or control, and 
therefore it isnt responsible for the losses claimed. 
 
I note Mr B says that he wouldve done better in an alternative investment, but he does so 
with the benefit of hindsight. In any case, in line with what Ive said above this doesnt of 
itself mean that the recommendation was unsuitable.
I note Mr B also talks about a different strategy regarding his bond(s), but again he does so 
with the benefit of hindsight and it doesnt mean that the approach in this instance 
recommended by the business  and happily followed by Mr B at the time  was unsuitable. 
As I mentioned at the beginning of my decision, Im not looking at whats more suitable. Im 
only considering whether the recommendation was. So, other advisers that Mr B spoke to, 
and in hindsight having a different approach doesnt automatically render this advice 
unsuitable. 
 
I note Mr G says that given his CGT exemption, he wouldve incurred no tax, but I cant say 
for sure that this wouldve been the case, and that his circumstances over five to nine years 
 especially after retirement  wouldnt have changed, such that he wouldnt have to pay any 
tax. 
Despite what Mr B says about the advice in 2014, I note that he was retired and therefore it 
wasnt unreasonable for him to invest  with a view to maintaining his standard of living, 
which I understand was one of his objectives. So, I cant say that the advice was unsuitable 
as such. I note the suitability letter stated:
This meets your objectives because you wish to invest for a potentially higher return than 
cash and wanted to fully utilise this years ISA allowance whilst also putting some money into 
an Investment Bond for growth now and future income when you need it. You also liked the 
fact that an Investment Bond can easily be placed into trust, should you require to do any 
inheritance tax planning.
Despite what Mr B says about no review taking place, the email from him dated April 2020 
suggests that a review/discussion regarding his position took place  albeit probably not at 
home owing to Covid restrictions  regarding the withdrawal of £60,000. Therefore, I cant 
say that Mr Bs circumstances werent considered or that he was made to do something that 
he was unhappy with. Despite what he now says, I cant safely say that this advice was 
motivated by higher fees without any considering his interests and needs. 
I note the business says:"I have considered your comments regarding the withdrawal you made and how you believe 
the adviser (name anonymised) instructed you to take these funds from your ISA and not the 
IB. On 23 April 2020 you emailed the adviser (name anonymised) and stated: 
"...you told me that I can withdraw 5% per annum from original investment of the bonds 
without a tax penalty and this can be done retrospectively; or I can withdraw any amount 
from the ISA as all of this is tax exempt... 
This indicates you were fully aware of the tax arrangements on each plan and I believe you 
were happy with the withdrawal you made. Having reviewed the level of service provided by 
the adviser (name anonymised) I am satisfied he provided you with a good level of service, 
including regular reviews and making himself available to you when you required."
I note Mr B refers to an instance where he says the adviser was content with the 
performance of his investment until he recommended following a different approach to mirror 
the approach of an investment that was doing well. But this doesnt of itself mean that the 
adviser wasnt doing a good job or even that by making changes Mr B was guaranteed to 
achieve better returns. 
Based on what Mr B says, it seems to me that remaining where he was wasnt unsuitable 
either, neither was doing what he wanted in that instance with the support of the adviser. 
Without the benefit of hindsight, theres no way of knowing which course of action wouldve 
been more beneficial. 
Despite what Mr B says, theres no need to switch investments for no good reason, and just 
because an adviser doesnt automatically advise doing so, doesnt mean that the business 
isnt providing a good service. Im mindful the business says: Our Partners will not 
recommend changes to a clients portfolio unless there is a specific need to do so. This does 
not equate to a lack of service as work must still be undertaken to assess a clients portfolio 
and requirements in order to determine no change is required. However, I do note fund 
switches were made on your portfolio in both 2017 and 2020. In the circumstances I agree 
with the investigator, if Mr B wanted more frequent reviews or interaction with his adviser 
there was nothing preventing him from asking for this and/or initiating the process.    
The above notwithstanding, I think the proposed redress offered by the business  but not 
yet paid  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Im also mindful of Mr Bs wider 
points, but on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to safely say that the 
business hasnt acted honestly, fairly, and professionally in accordance with his best interest. 
I appreciate Mr B will likely be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Im also very sorry that it 
has taken this long to get to the decision stage. 
Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do anything in
relation to the complaint points considered in this decision, other than pay what it has 
already offered. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc should pay the redress that it has offered Mr B, 
namely refund the ongoing advice fees in the sum of £693.95 for 2018. St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc has also offered to pay Mr B £250 compensation 
by way of an apology for the time taken to provide a response, which I would expect it to 
pay.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman