DRN-2966811
The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of lino he purchased through a finance agreement with 
Happy Customers Group Ltd (Happy Customers).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S bought lino through a conditional sale agreement with Happy Customers. The 
agreement was for the supply of materials only. The fitting of the lino, whilst organised by 
Happy Customers, was not financed through the regulated agreement that we are able to 
consider complaints about.
It is an implied term of the contract that the lino should be of satisfactory quality when 
supplied. If it wasnt I would ask Happy Customers to take some additional action.
But the fitting of the lino was paid for separately. Notes show that Mr S paid the fitters for 
that service and thats not something I can therefore fairly hold Happy Customers 
responsible for.
Ive not seen evidence that the lino is defective; the evidence suggests that the lino has been 
fitted incorrectly. The fitters notes suggest the bubbles are a result of delamination caused 
by the wrong, and too much, adhesive being used. They suggest Mr J has attempted to glue 
the lino using the wrong product. Mr J disputes that. He says it makes no sense that he 
would try to rectify any mistakes himself.
I think there is evidence something has gone wrong with the fitting and is most likely to be 
because the lino was stuck down incorrectly following the fitters visit. But Im not persuaded 
there is evidence the lino is of unsatisfactory quality and as that was the only thing being 
financed by the regulated agreement I dont think Happy Customers need to take any further 
action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman