DRN-2431891
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited has declined a claim
made under her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs W made a claim under her Red Sands pet insurance in July 2019 for removing a lump
which was found in her dog, which was later diagnosed as Haemangiosarcoma.
When considering the claim, Red Sands reviewed the medical history provided by the vets.
But they said that based on the history, there were signs of the condition which caused the
lumps prior to the start of the policy. So, they said it was pre-existing.
Red Sands retrospectively applied an exclusion for all growths, tumours and Cancers with
effect from the start of the policy and declined Mrs Ws claim.
Mrs W was unhappy with Red Sands decision and approached this service.
Our investigator looked into everything and upheld Mrs Ws complaint. He said that he didnt
think Red Sands had sufficiently linked a previous injury the dog had to the Cancer and lump
removal.
He also said there was no way Mrs W could have known about the Cancer when taking out
the policy, so he said it was unfair to treat it as pre-existing and retrospectively apply the
exclusion. So, he upheld the complaint and said Red Sands should remove the exclusion
and settle the claim.
As Red Sands didnt respond to our investigators assessment, an ombudsman was asked
to review the complaint for a final decision.
I decided to issue a provisional decision. Whilst Id reached the same outcome as our 
investigator, Id done so for slightly different reasons. I was also minded to conclude some 
compensation was warranted. So I wanted to give both parties an opportunity to comment 
on my thinking, before I reached my final decision  which is the Financial Ombudsman 
Services last word on the case.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I must say that Im sorry to hear Mrs Ws dog has sadly passed away. I 
appreciate this must be difficult for Mrs W. But Ill still look at whether Red Sands has 
treated Mrs W fairly when it declined the claim.
In 2018 Mrs Ws dog suffered an injury when he escaped from the garden. This was 
treated but took some time to heal, ultimately with surgical intervention. In 2019 
lumps were found and removed. The cause of the lumps was determined as 
Haemangiosarcoma (Cancer).
Red Sands said there were signs of the Cancer in the previous injury in 2018, prior to 
the purchase of the policy. Therefore they said it was pre-existing. So, they 
retrospectively applied the following exclusion, and declined the claim:
Excludes cover on all claims with respect to Growths, Tumours and Cancers and 
Resulting Conditions with effect from
So I need to decide whether there is enough to link the injury and the condition, and
therefore whether its pre-existing. And consequently, if its then fair for Red Sands to
retrospectively apply the exclusion and decline the claim.
The policy terms say:
What is not covered
Any claim or costs for or relating to a pre-existing condition(s) or for an 
accident, injury or illness that first showed clinical signs at any time before the 
commencement date of the policy or within 14 days of the commencement 
date.
Red Sands has said the notes provided by the vets show that there was a previous 
wound which took from April until August 2018 to heal. It was reviewed by the vets a 
number of times throughout this time because it wasnt healing correctly and surgery 
was carried out in order to help with the healing process. This was before the policy 
was taken out in October 2018.
The lumps being claimed for were first noticed in February 2019. And in July 2019 
Mrs W took her dog back to the vet as some of the lumps had burst.
The treating vets commented that the lumps were all in the line of the where the 
stitches were previously. Further investigations were carried out following the lump 
removal and it was concluded that it was Haemangiosarcoma. The removal of the 
lumps was subsequently claimed for.
Red Sands has considered all the vets notes and history including the healing of the 
wound between April and August 2018. Theyve provided comment from their vet 
which says that slow healing wounds are a sign of Cancer, and they gave further 
general details around how this can happen.
So on this basis, Red Sands considered the Cancer pre-existing, retrospectively 
applied the exclusion for growths, tumours and Cancers and declined the claim.
Our investigator contacted Mrs Ws vets who treated her dog, both for the injury in 
2018 and the lump removal in 2019.
They gave their view on why the injury was healing slowly. They said the dog 
presented in 2018 with an old infected wound and being muscly with tight skin, and 
the position of this with not much spare skin, meant that every time he moved a leg 
the tension would cause it to open up. They also said Cancer wasnt suspected, no 
lumps were present and aside from the wound he was otherwise well.The vet further added that the type of Cancer found in 2019 was unusual as it would
normally affect other things rather than the skin. So they said it would be impossible 
to confirm when the symptoms may have started, and prior to the lumps he didnt 
have any symptoms and was otherwise fine.
So I have one opinion from Red Sands vet which says slow healing wounds are 
signs of Cancer generally. And I have an opinion from the treating vet which has 
explained why they think the wound wasnt healing, said the dog was otherwise well 
and nothing else was suspected.
I dont dispute what Red Sands have said, that wounds healing slowly could be a 
sign of Cancer. But taking into account what the treating vet has said, Im not 
persuaded there is enough to link the two in these specific circumstances.
The lumps were noticed some time after the wound had healed, and I find the 
treating vets explanation as to why it was healing slowly persuasive. So whilst slow 
healing wounds could be a sign of Cancer, Im not persuaded Red Sands has 
sufficiently demonstrated in this case that it actually was, or that signs of the 
condition pre-dated the policy.
As Im not persuaded there is enough to connect the slow healing and the condition,
consequently Im not minded to conclude its fair for Red Sands to consider this 
pre-existing.
As well as saying this was a pre-existing condition, Red Sands also retrospectively 
added an exclusion to the policy and used the exclusion to decline the claim. This 
exclusion wasnt just for the particular condition; it went wider and excluded all claims 
regarding growths, tumours and Cancers.
An insurer should only add exclusions like this where there has been a 
misrepresentation. Red Sands would need to show it had asked clear questions 
about this, Mrs W failed to take reasonable care when answering the questions and, 
but for that misrepresentation, the exclusion would have been added at the time 
when the policy was taken out. There doesnt seem to be any suggestion Mrs W 
made a misrepresentation about her pets condition. At the time when she bought her 
policy the wound had apparently healed well. 
So unless anything changes as result of the responses to my provisional decision, 
Im minded to say that Red Sands should remove the backdated exclusion and 
reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions.
Im inviting Mrs W to let me know if she has paid the vets invoice in response to my
provisional decision. If she has, and my final decision is along the same lines as my
provisional decision, then Ill also direct Red Sands to add 8% interest to the claim
settlement from date of payment to date of settlement.
Its clear that Mrs Ws dog suffering from very poor health would have been 
distressing itself, but Red Sands declining the claim which is for a considerable 
amount, and adding an exclusion for any future treatment has caused Mrs W 
additional upset, uncertainty and added to this. Unless anything changes, Im also 
minded to direct Red Sands to compensate Mrs W £100 for the additional upset 
caused.So I was minded to direct Red Sands to remove the exclusion, reconsider the claim in line 
with the remaining terms, and if Mrs W had already paid the invoice, to add 8% interest to 
the settlement from date of payment to date of settlement. I was also minded to direct 
Red Sands to pay £100 compensation to Mrs W.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mrs W responded and accepted my provisional decision.
Red Sands responded but they didnt agree. They referred to some additional information 
about slow healing wounds being a sign of Cancer. 
Red Sands also said that if Mrs W had told them about the previous slow healing wound at 
the time of taking out the policy, they would have applied the exclusion from the outset.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought again about the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision. And I havent 
changed my mind.
Red Sands has provided some further information about slow healing wounds being a sign 
of Cancer. They also provided information about this previously, which I considered when 
reaching my provisional decision. And as I outlined in it, I dont disagree with this, that slow 
healing wounds could be a sign of Cancer. 
But as I outlined in my provisional decision, I find the treating vets explanation why the 
wound was healing slowly persuasive. So whilst slow healing wounds could be a sign of 
Cancer, Im not persuaded Red Sands has sufficiently demonstrated in this case that it 
actually was, or that signs of the condition pre-dated the policy.
So I dont think Red Sands has shown it was pre-existing, or that its reasonable to 
retrospectively apply the exclusion and decline the claim.
Red Sands has also said if Mrs W had told them about the previous injury and slow healing 
when she took out the policy, then they would have applied the exclusion at that time. 
But Ive had a look through the underwriting guidelines which Red Sands sent to us. And I 
dont think Red Sands has shown this exclusion would be applied if Mrs W had told them 
about this before taking out the policy. 
And as I said, Im not persuaded there is enough to connect the slow healing injury and 
condition, so I dont think it would be fair for Red Sands to treat this as pre-existing or to 
retrospectively apply the exclusion or use it to decline the claim.
So for the reasons outlined in my provisional decision and above, I remain of the view that 
Red Sands should remove the backdated exclusion and reconsider the claim in line with the 
remaining terms of the policy. 8% simple interest from date of payment to date of settlement 
should be added if Mrs W has already paid the invoice. 
£100 compensation should also be paid to Mrs W.My final decision
Its my final decision that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited should:
Remove the exclusion for claims with respect to Growths, Tumours and Cancers and 
Resulting Conditions
Reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms
Add 8% simple interest* to the settlement from date of payment to date of settlement 
(if Mrs W has already paid the invoice)
Pay Mrs W £100 compensation
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from any interest due to Mrs W, it should tell her 
how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs W a certificate showing this if she asks for 
one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman