DRN-3581803
The complaint
Mr Z and Mrs Z hold a joint account with Nationwide Building Society. They complain about 
what happened when Mr Z asked Nationwide to send some money to an overseas account 
in his name, while he was away from home.
What happened
Although this complaint is about a joint account, Mr Z has taken the lead in talking to 
Nationwide, and he brought the case to our service too, so I will refer to him throughout.
Mr Z said he was on holiday overseas, and needed money to cover his family living 
expenses. He told us that he asked Nationwide to make a transfer to a bank account he has 
in the country where he was staying. He said he asked on 23 August 2021 for £2,000 to be 
sent. Hed normally expect this payment to arrive in a day or two. But the money didnt 
arrive, so he asked for another transfer on 27 August, for £2,150. 
Mr Z said he called Nationwide a number of times. He felt he was fobbed off by Nationwide, 
it said it had sent the money to its agent bank, and was no longer responsible for what 
happened after that. Mr Z said he asked Nationwide to put a trace on the money, but it didnt 
show any urgency, and said it would take five working days to get an answer. 
Mr Z said he and his family were out of money, and were stranded in a foreign country. He 
said his local bank told him that Nationwide had used the wrong correspondent bank. Mr Z 
said he told Nationwide that, but it still just blamed its agent. 
Mr Z said he then asked a different UK bank to make a transfer for him, with exactly the 
same details he had given to Nationwide. The money arrived the next day. Mr Z said that 
proved that the fault lay with Nationwide and its agent. Mr Z felt, because of the extreme 
distress he and his family had suffered, he should be paid exemplary damages.
Nationwide said it had made two transactions for Mr Z, one of £2,000 on 23 August 2021, 
and a second of £2,150 on 27 August. 
Nationwide told Mr Z that it uses an intermediary bank to get the money from it to other 
banks overseas. So once the money left Nationwide, it was no longer responsible for the 
money getting to Mr Zs overseas bank. Nationwide said Mr Z had told it that the payment 
went to the wrong bank, as his overseas bank had recently changed the banks it uses to 
route payments to it. But Nationwide said that wasnt its fault, it hadnt sent the money there. 
Nationwide said when Mr Z called, it put through a payment recovery for his payments. It 
said that takes two working days to set up, and the actual recovery might take up to 30 days. 
It said Mr Z might also incur admin funds from the recall, but in fact he got all his money 
back. The beneficiary bank, Mr Zs local bank, had returned the first payment of £2,000. Mr Z 
got that money back on 7 September 2021. Nationwide cancelled the recall on the second 
transfer, because Mr Z said that money had been received. 
Nationwide said it had processed the SWIFT payment using the account details Mr Z 
provided. And it said that the way it makes SWIFT payments to overseas banks is explained 
in the terms of Mr Zs current account. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said he could only look at 
what Nationwide did. He couldnt consider the actions of the beneficiary bank or how it 
handled the transfer and any delays it may have been responsible for. So hed looked at the 
efforts Nationwide made to trace and retrieve Mr Zs funds. He said that the payment 
instructions matched Mr Zs request. And Nationwide then tried to locate the money when it 
didnt arrive. Fortunately it was found. Our investigator said he appreciated that this caused 
stress and inconvenience to Mr Z, but he couldnt hold Nationwide responsible. 
Mr Z didnt agree. He said the other UK bank he then used to send money overseas got the 
money to him within a day. So clearly Nationwide made a mistake somewhere. 
Our investigator didnt change his mind. But Mr Z said hed read about the bank that 
Nationwide was using having messed up transfers for other people. And he said there was 
no evidence that the beneficiary bank was at fault. Mr Z wanted his complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Id like to start by saying that I appreciate this would have been a stressful time for Mr Z. He 
was overseas, waiting for money which he wanted to use for living expenses for him and his 
family. And at one point he believed that large amounts of money had just been lost.
Now Id like to look at how an overseas transfer works. When a bank or building society 
makes an overseas transfer, using the SWIFT messaging system, a number of other banks 
may be involved. This messaging system travels through the existing links that banks have 
established with their counterparts overseas. 
For building societies and smaller banks, an overseas transfer often starts with sending the 
money to another, larger UK bank, which carries out more of these transactions and so has 
a wider network of links to overseas banks. Thats how Nationwide makes overseas 
transfers, it asks another bank in the UK to make these for it. Mr Z knows which bank 
Nationwide uses, it told him when it wrote to him about this complaint, but I wont name that 
other bank here.
When Nationwide wrote to Mr Z, it told him that it wasnt responsible if something had gone 
wrong further down the chain. And thats right. This complaint is against Nationwide. So 
unless I can see that Nationwide did something wrong, I cannot uphold this complaint.
Mr Z made two payments. We know that one of these eventually arrived, although it was 
delayed. And the other was returned. 
Ive checked each of the sets of instructions carefully, and I cannot see that Nationwide 
made a mistake in the SWIFT message it sent. I dont know what went wrong with these 
payments, but I havent seen anything to make me think that this was Nationwides fault.Mr Z then asked for the payments to be recalled. Nationwide told him that it would take two 
days for the recall instructions to reach the next bank in the chain, but I can see that both of 
these were actioned promptly by Nationwide. 
Nationwide also said it could take up to 30 days to get the money back. The timescale for 
this is outside of Nationwides control, but fortunately the money from the first transfer was 
returned on 7 September. And the second payment did reach Mr Zs account, so the recall of 
that payment was cancelled. 
Ive also listened carefully to the calls that Mr Z had with Nationwide at the time. I do 
understand how frustrating Mr Z found this  hed been told by his local bank that the 
problem lay elsewhere, but Nationwide still didnt think what had happened was its fault. But 
I can hear that Nationwide double checked the transfer information very carefully with Mr Z. 
It also explained to Mr Z what it could do to help. 
I think Nationwide did try to help Mr Z, within the limits of what it was able to achieve. I 
cannot say for sure which bank in the chain bears the responsibility for Mr Z not getting his 
money promptly, but I can say that he wasnt misadvised by Nationwide.
Ive looked at everything that Nationwide did, and I dont think that what has gone wrong 
here is Nationwides fault. So, although I know Mr Z will be disappointed, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z and Mr Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman