DRN-3145669
The complaint
Mr M complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) declined a claim 
made under his breakdown repair cover.
Reference to Acromas includes its agents.
What happened
In November 2020 Mr Ms engine management light (EML) came on, and he requested a 
callout under his breakdown policy with Acromas. Acromas assessed his car and found the 
fuel pressure sensor had short circuited. It advised Mr M to take the car to a local garage for 
a further assessment.
Mr M took the car to a garage of his choosing the next day. Hes said he was told by the 
garage that the fuel pressure sensor needed to be replaced. Mr M says that the EML had 
turned off by that point and he decided not to replace the sensor, because it wasnt 
considered urgent by the garage.
In February 2021, both the EML and the ABS light came on, so Mr M requested a further 
callout under his breakdown policy with Acromas. When his car was taken to a garage, Mr M 
was advised that both the wheel sensor and fuel pressure sensor needed to be replaced.
Mr M made a claim to Acromas for the cost of the repairs. Acromas covered the cost of the 
new wheel sensor but declined the claim for the fuel pressure sensor. It said Mr M had been 
aware that the fuel pressure sensor needed to be replaced since November, and that the 
policy didnt cover issues that the policyholder was aware of before starting their journey.
Mr M disagreed and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ms complaint but didnt uphold it. She said Mr M had 
been clearly advised that the fuel pressure sensor was faulty before setting off on the 
journey which led to the callout, so Acromas was entitled to rely on its policy exclusion. She 
said Acromas wouldnt have covered the fuel pressure sensor in November 2020 even if he 
had made a claim at the time either, because it wasnt preventing him from continuing to use 
the car safely.
Mr M didnt agree. He said that if hed known the fuel pressure sensor would cause further 
problems, he would have replaced it at the time. He said he wasnt aware of the policys 
exclusions as he didnt receive the policy booklet. He asked for the complaint to be referred 
to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
Mr Ms policy excludes the cost of repairs where the he was aware of the failure before the 
start of the journey. It says this policy will not cover failures that You were previously 
aware of or have been made aware of Its not in dispute that Mr M had previously been 
made aware of the problem with the fuel pressure sensor, or that he chose not to replace it.
Mr M says that he wasnt aware that the problem with the fuel pressure sensor would lead to 
more serious problems in the future, and says that if hed realised this, hed have had it 
replaced sooner. That may be the case. But when Mr M took his car to the garage, he knew 
there was a problem with a sensor and that it needed fixing at some point. I dont find it 
reasonable that he waited for it to become an issue again to then claim on his policy with 
Acromas. As set out above, that isnt the purpose of this policy. The policy specifically 
excludes this type of damage.
Even if Mr M had replaced then claimed for the sensor earlier, Acromas wouldnt have paid 
his claim. Its said this is because it didnt prevent the car from continuing its journey safely. 
And I think this is reasonable too. The policy defines a breakdown as:
A sudden or unexpected event involving the Nominated Vehicle:
a) as a result of Mechanical or Electrical Failure; and
b) which has been attended by the AA under Your AA membership; and
c) that has prevented the Nominated Vehicle from starting or continuing its journey safely; 
and
d) that requires the repair or replacement of insured part(s) to enable the journey to be 
resumed
or, when At Home (Home Start) cover is held under Your AA membership, commenced
The fact that Mr M was able to use the car, for months and for many thousands of miles 
without issue clearly points to the issue with the fuel sensor not preventing the car from 
being driven safely. So, the required repair to the sensor doesnt meet the policy definition of 
a breakdown, therefore the policy provides no cover for that repair.
Mr M also says he didnt receive the policy booklet and wasnt aware of the exclusions or 
definitions. Ultimately, Acromas didnt sell this policy to Mr M. Its not Acromass 
responsibility to send the documentation to him. But Acromas has provided a letter from 
October 2020 enclosing the policy booklet. The letter is correctly addressed, so Im satisfied 
Acromas did what it needed to to make Mr M aware of the policy terms.
Im satisfied Acromas has acted fairly and in line with Mr Ms policy when declining this 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman